Title: Stench (Ability)

This article is about the Ability Stench. For the field move Stink, see Field Move (Ranger). Stench (Japanese: あくしゅう Stench) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature Ability of Grimer and Muk. Stench has a 10% chance of making the target flinch when hit by a damaging move used by the Pokémon with this Ability. Stench does not stack with King's Rock or Razor Fang, nor does it stack with moves that already have a chance to flinch. Each strike of a multistrike move has an independent chance of causing the target to flinch. If a Pokémon with Stench is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the chance of encountering a wild Pokémon is decreased by 50%. It shares this effect with Quick Feet, White Smoke, and Infiltrator (since Generation VIII). In the Battle Pyramid, the encounter rate is decreased by 25%. In Pokémon Sword and Shield only, this Ability instead decreases the chance of hidden encounters by 87.5%. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle. If a Pokémon with Stench is attacked by an adjacent Pokémon, the attacker may become terrified for a short time. In Sliding Into Seventh!, Jeremiah's Skuntank was revealed to have Stench as its Ability, but the Ability activated off-screen. It appears to cause a lavender foul-smelling explosion. Geoff's Trubbish was revealed to have Stench as its Ability. Stench is the first Ability in index number order.

Title: Drizzle (Ability)

Drizzle (Japanese: あめふらし Rainfall) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Kyogre. Drizzle summons rain in battle as soon as a Pokémon with Drizzle enters the battle. Its effects are the same as the move Rain Dance, but instead of lasting for a limited amount of turns, it lasts for the whole battle (unless it is replaced by another type of weather). If a Pokémon with Drizzle is sent out in the same turn as another Pokémon whose Ability affects the weather, the slower Pokémon's Ability will override the faster Pokémon's Ability. The rain now lasts only for five turns. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Damp Rock. Rain called by Drizzle does not allow Sliggoo to evolve into Goodra. Drizzle will not activate if the Pokémon it's on is a Kyogre that's in position to undergo Primal Reversion; in that case the Primal Reversion will happen instead, its ability will be replaced by Primordial Sea, and only that ability will activate. Drizzle will also fail to activate if heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are already in effect. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, Drizzle changes the weather to Rain upon entering a floor, and then every subsequent 36 turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Drizzle changes the weather to rain upon entering a floor. Rain lasts a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66) before clearing. After the weather has cleared, Drizzle will again activate after waiting a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66). A Kyogre monster made of seawater created by Guile Hideout's wish to Jirachi was revealed to have Drizzle as its Ability. Drizzle debuted as an attack in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Azumarill from the EX Sandstorm expansion. At its debut, when used, the attack allows the player to attach as many Water Energy cards from their hand to their Active Pokémon. The current iteration of the attack as of the Legends Awakened expansion instead allows the player to attach up to 2 Water Energy cards from their hand to 1 of their Pokémon. The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Drizzle attack.

Title: Speed Boost (Ability)

Speed Boost (Japanese: かそく Speed Up) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. At the end of each turn, Speed Boost raises the Speed stat of the Pokémon with this Ability by one stage. Speed Boost will not activate on the turn the Pokémon with the Ability is switched in (even if it gains the Ability after switching in). It will activate if the Pokémon is switched in due to a previous Pokémon fainting. Starting from Generation V, Speed Boost will not activate at the end of the turn if the user failed to escape from a wild encounter during that turn. In Generation V, Venipede, Whirlipede, and Scolipede have Quick Feet instead of Speed Boost as their Hidden Ability. The stats shown above are the exact stats, not base stats. The values are custom set rather than derived from base stats, level, Nature, IVs, and EVs. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, Pokémon with Speed Boost receive a boost to Movement Speed every 250 turns, lasting for the remainder of the floor. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Speed Boost increases the Travel Speed of a Pokémon with this Ability by one after one turn of being on the floor, and again every 20 turns afterwards. The boost wears off after five turns.

Title: Battle Armor (Ability)

Battle Armor (Japanese: カブトアーマー Kabuto Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Battle Armor prevents the Pokémon from receiving a critical hit, even from moves that normally always land one, namely Frost Breath, Storm Throw, Wicked Blow, Surging Strikes, Flower Trick, and any move boosted by Merciless (if the Pokémon is poisoned) or Laser Focus. Blake's Kabutops, Kabutott, is revealed to have Battle Armor as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Brock's Kabutops and Casey's Falinks, Giga, were revealed to have Battle Armor as their Ability.

Title: Sturdy (Ability)

Sturdy (Japanese: がんじょう Sturdy) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Sturdy makes the Pokémon unaffected by one-hit knockout moves. In addition to Sturdy's previous effect, Sturdy now works like a Focus Sash, causing the Pokémon to have 1 HP remaining if another Pokémon's attack or confusion damage would have brought it from full health to 0 HP. Sturdy will activate as long as a Pokémon has full HP before the attack, and therefore it can activate multiple times if the Pokémon is brought back to full health, or if the Pokémon has a maximum of 1 HP. If a Pokémon with Sturdy is holding a Focus Sash, Sturdy will activate first. A Pokémon with Mold Breaker will ignore Sturdy. When a multistrike move hits a Pokémon with Sturdy, Sturdy's effect can only activate for hits while the user has full HP. Destiny Bond and Perish Song will not cause Sturdy to activate. In Pokémon UNITE, Sturdy is Crustle's Ability. It increases the user's Defense and Special Defense (based on the user's level) for every 7% of the HP they are missing, up to 70%. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Shuckle was revealed to have Sturdy as her Ability by Emerald's Pokédex. In volume 25, Yellow's Golem, Gravvy, was revealed to have Sturdy as his Ability. In volume 40, Diamond's Bastiodon, Don, was revealed to have Sturdy as his Ability. In volume 42, Gold's Sudowoodo, Sudobo, was revealed to have Sturdy as his Ability. Giovanni's Golem was revealed to have Sturdy as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. The Pokémon Association's Pineco, Carr's Forretress, Burgh's Dwebble, Marshal's Sawk, and Cheren's Gigalith are revealed to have Sturdy as their Ability. Every generation has introduced a Pokémon, or a new form of a Pokémon, that can have this Ability. Sturdy is the most common Ability among Pokémon, with 47 of them being capable of having it.

Title: Damp (Ability)

Moisture redirects here. For information about Berries, see Berry → Generation IV. Damp (Japanese: しめりけ Moisture) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Damp prevents all Pokémon from using Self-Destruct, Explosion, Mind Blown, and Misty Explosion; if a Pokémon attempts to use one of these moves, it will fail and the user will not faint or take damage. Additionally, Damp prevents the Ability Aftermath from doing damage when the Pokémon with Aftermath faints. Damp affects non-adjacent Pokémon in Triple Battles. The floor becomes defused, preventing all explosions, including moves such as Explosion and traps such as the Explosion Trap. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, the Blast Seed and Blast Wand will also become ineffective. Crasher Wake's Quagsire is revealed to have Damp as his Ability. Despite the attacks involving explosions, Damp does not prevent the activation of Blast Burn, Powder, Pollen Puff, or Shell Trap.

Title: Limber (Ability)

Limber (Japanese: じゅうなん Flexible) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Limber prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by paralysis. A Pokémon with this Ability will be cured of paralysis if it is paralyzed while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is paralyzed by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If the Pokémon with this Ability is paralyzed and is holding a Cheri or Lum Berry, Limber will cure the Pokémon of paralysis before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. If a paralyzed Pokémon with Limber is sent into battle as one of the lead Pokémon or to replace a fainted Pokémon, or gains Limber due to Trace, it will not be cured of paralysis until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). It will be cured of paralysis if it is switched in to replace a switched out Pokémon (including if switched in via Baton Pass). If a paralyzed Pokémon has Limber as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain paralyzed when switched out. When a paralyzed Pokémon with Limber enters battle, it will be cured of paralysis. If a paralyzed Pokémon has Limber as its original Ability but not its current Ability, if it is one of the active Pokémon at the end of the battle or switched out, it will be cured of paralysis (with no message). If a paralyzed Pokémon has Limber as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain paralyzed when switched out. If a paralyzed Pokémon gains Limber by Evolution or the Ability Capsule, it will not be cured of paralysis until sent into battle. Pokémon with Limber will not be paralyzed by the Gentleman's Kirlia in the Battle Pike nor the Battle Arcade's game board. In volume 24, Green's Ditto, Ditty, was revealed to have Limber as its Ability. White's Stunfisk, Dorothy, was revealed to have Limber as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Sird's Persian was revealed to have Limber as her Ability. Because Electric-type Pokémon are immune to paralysis from Generation VI onwards, Stunfisk's Limber Ability is redundant unless it undergoes a type change via a type-altering move like Camouflage, Reflect Type, or Soak.

Title: Sand Veil (Ability)

Sand Veil (Japanese: すながくれ Hidden in Sand) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. During a sandstorm, the accuracy of any move used against a Pokémon with this Ability is modified by a factor of 4/5 (approximated as a factor of 3277/4096 since Generation V). A Pokémon with this Ability will take no damage from the sandstorm if it otherwise would. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Sand Veil is in the first place in the party (even if fainted) in an area with a sandstorm (such as Route 228 in Sinnoh), the chance of encountering a wild Pokémon is decreased by 50%. This Ability appears to have no effect on encounter rate in Pokémon Sword and Shield. This Ability appears to have no effect on encounter rate in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Sand Veil increases evasion by two stages when active. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Sand Veil does not protect against sandstorm damage. In volume 40, Pearl's Diglett, Digler, was revealed to have Sand Veil as his Ability. Red's Diglett and Sandshrew and Giovanni's Dugtrio were revealed to have Sand Veil as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Wally's Cacturne and Cynthia's Garchomp were revealed to have Sand Veil as their Ability. Prior to becoming an Ability, Sand Veil appeared as a TCG Attack.

Title: Static (Ability)

Static (Japanese: せいでんき Static Electricity) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a 1/3 chance that the attacking Pokémon will become paralyzed. This can affect Ground-type Pokémon. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact, each hit has an independent chance to activate this Ability. The chance for Static to paralyze is lowered to 30%. From Pokémon Emerald onward, if a Pokémon with Static is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), then there is a 50% chance the game will force an encounter with an Electric-type Pokémon, if one is possible. As of Pokémon Sword and Shield, it shares this effect with Lightning Rod. In Pokémon Sword and Shield only, this chance is 51% instead. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle, with its former field function effectively being replaced by Meal Powers. In the Generation V games, Zapdos has Lightning Rod instead of Static as its Hidden Ability, but it cannot be obtained by any legitimate means. In Pokémon UNITE, Static is Pikachu's Ability. It slows down all enemies nearby by paralyzing them for a short time when receiving damage. This Ability goes on a 30s cooldown after it's triggered. In Secrets from Sneasel, Yellow's Pikachu, Chuchu, was revealed to have Static as her Ability. In volume 23, Red's Pikachu, Pika, was revealed to have Static as his Ability. In Volume 4 of the Scarlet & Violet arc, Scarlet's Pikachu was revealed to have Static as her Ability. Gold's Pichu, Pibu, is revealed to have Static as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Crystal's Flaaffy, Lt. Surge's Electabuzz and Raichu, and Jasmine's Ampharos, Amphy, are revealed to have Static as their Ability.

Title: Volt Absorb (Ability)

Volt Absorb (Japanese: ちくでん Electricity Storage) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with Volt Absorb is hit by a damaging Electric-type move, its HP is restored by one quarter of its maximum HP, and the move will have no effect on that Pokémon (if a Pokémon with this Ability already has full HP, the Electric-type move will do nothing). Volt Absorb will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Electric-type move. Volt Absorb will now also activate when a Pokémon with it is hit by an Electric-type status move. Multistrike moves that are turned into Electric-type moves, such as by being affected by Electrify or Galvanize, will only activate this Ability once. If a Pokémon with Volt Absorb is holding a Cell Battery, Volt Absorb absorbs the move, so the Cell Battery's effect is not triggered. In the Generation V and VI games, Raikou has Volt Absorb as its Hidden Ability, but it cannot be obtained by any legitimate means. Its Hidden Ability is replaced with Inner Focus in Generation VII. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when a Pokémon with Volt Absorb is hit by an Electric-type move, its HP is restored by the amount of damage it would have inflicted. In Gates to Infinity and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Volt Absorb instead restores 20% of the Pokémon's maximum HP when hit by an Electric-type move. In Pokémon UNITE, Volt Absorb is Zeraora's Ability. It converts 8% of the damage Zeraora was dealt as Attack, up to 200 Attack. This buff resets after not taking damage for 4s. Red's Eevee, Vee, is revealed to have Volt Absorb as his Ability when transformed into a Jolteon.

Title: Water Absorb (Ability)

Water Absorb (Japanese: ちょすい Water Storage) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with Water Absorb is hit by a damaging Water-type move, its HP is restored by one quarter of its maximum HP, and the move will have no effect on that Pokémon (if a Pokémon with this Ability already has full HP, the Water-type move will do nothing). Water Absorb will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Water-type move. Water Absorb will now also activate when a Pokémon with it is hit by a Water-type status move (although none targeted an opponent until Soak was introduced in Generation V). Multistrike moves, such as Water Shuriken, will only activate the Ability once. If a Pokémon with Water Absorb is holding an Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss, Water Absorb absorbs the move, so the item's effect is not triggered. In the Generation V and VI games, Suicune has Water Absorb as its Hidden Ability, but it cannot be obtained by any legitimate means. Its Hidden Ability is replaced with Inner Focus in Generation VII. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when a Pokémon with Water Absorb is hit by a Water-type move, its HP is restored by the amount of damage it would have inflicted. In Gates to Infinity and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Water Absorb instead restores 20% of the Pokémon's maximum HP when hit by an Water-type move. In volume 42, Gold's Politoed, Polibo, was revealed to have Water Absorb as his Ability. Gold's Mantine, Tibo, is revealed to have Water Absorb as his Ability. Red's Eevee, Vee, is revealed to have Water Absorb as his Ability when transformed into a Vaporeon. Water Absorb is the first Ability of its variations to be shown in the animated series.

Title: Oblivious (Ability)

This article is about the Ability that prevents infatuation. For the Ability with a synonymous meaning, see Unaware (Ability). Oblivious (Japanese: どんかん Thickheaded) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. A Pokémon with Oblivious cannot be affected by infatuation or by Captivate. If an infatuated Pokémon gains the Ability in battle (such as from Skill Swap), it will be cured of infatuation. If the Pokémon with this Ability is holding a Destiny Knot, the Destiny Knot will be activated before Oblivious cures the Pokémon of infatuation. Oblivious has no effect against Intimidate or Taunt. If the Pokémon with this Ability is infatuated and is holding a Mental Herb, Oblivious will cure the Pokémon of infatuation before the Mental Herb has a chance to be consumed. If the Pokémon with this Ability is infatuated and is holding a Mental Herb, the Mental Herb will be consumed before Oblivious cures the Pokémon of infatuation. Oblivious now prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by Taunt. If a taunted Pokémon gains the Ability in battle (such as from Skill Swap), it will shake off the taunt. If a Pokémon with Oblivious is taunted by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker, the taunting will take effect, but it will then be cured once the Pokémon regains Oblivious. If the Pokémon is holding a Mental Herb, it will be consumed before Oblivious cures the Pokémon of the Taunt. In Pokémon UNITE, Oblivious is Slowbro's, as well as Bounsweet's and Steenee's Ability. Slowbro's has the user store up lost HP for a short time; when the user hits an opposing Pokémon with a move, the user restores some of its HP using the stored up HP, and it also decreases the opposing Pokémon's Special Defense by 4% (stacking up to 20%) for a short time. Bounsweet's and Steenee's makes hindrances last shorter. Upon evolving, this becomes Queenly Majesty. Crystal's Smoochum, Chumee, Sapphire's Wailord, Lorry, Pryce's Swinub, and Carl's Piloswine are revealed to have Oblivious as their Ability. Due to a glitch in Generation IV, if a Pokémon has a non-volatile status condition and has its infatuation cured by Oblivious, the status condition icon will disappear from the HP bar while that Pokémon is in battle; however, it will still be displayed in the party menu and will be restored if the Pokémon switches out and then back in. The same is true for confusion and Own Tempo.

Title: Cloud Nine (Ability)

Cloud Nine (Japanese: ノーてんき No Weather) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Psyduck and Golduck. When a Pokémon with Cloud Nine is in battle, all effects of weather are negated (though the weather itself does not disappear). When a Pokémon with Cloud Nine is brought out, the message "The effects of weather disappeared." will be displayed. During extremely harsh sunlight, heavy rain, and strong winds, even if a Pokémon is negating the effects of weather with Cloud Nine, the moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, and Hail will still fail if used, and the Abilities Drought, Drizzle, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning will still fail to activate. However, all other effects of these weather conditions are negated by Cloud Nine. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, Cloud Nine changes the weather to Clear upon entering a floor, and then every subsequent 36 turns. Cloud Nine will take precedence over Drizzle, Drought, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning. Additionally, this Ability prevents the use of the moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Hail, and Sandstorm, and the items Sunny Orb, Rainy Orb, Sandy Orb, and Hail Orb become useless (trying to use one will still consume the item). If the dungeon has natural weather, it will return when Cloud Nine's effect ceases. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Cloud Nine nullifies the effects of the weather rather than changing the weather to Clear. Abilities such as Drizzle, and moves such as Rain Dance will still activate, but the effects of the weather will remain negated. In volume 23, Blue's Golduck was revealed to have Cloud Nine as his Ability. The Japanese name of this Ability is a double entendre, written so as to suggest ノー天気 nō tenki (no weather), but also homophonous to 能天気 nōtenki (carefree, and also used as the word for the Lax nature), in reference to Psyduck, originally the only Pokémon (in addition to Golduck) that had this Ability. The English name derives directly from the "carefree" meaning, while still maintaining a weak pun to connect it to the weather.

Title: Compound Eyes (Ability)

Compound Eyes (Japanese: ふくがん Compound Eyes), formatted as Compoundeyes prior to Pokémon X and Y, is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Compound Eyes increases the accuracy of moves used by the Pokémon with this Ability by multiplying the original accuracy by a factor of 1.3. This means that Thunder, for example, has 91% accuracy as opposed to the usual 70% (70 × 1.3 = 91%). Starting in Generation V, this multiplier is approximated as 5325/4096. It does not affect one-hit knockout moves. The table below lists the moves affected by Compound Eyes, as well as the Pokémon that can have Compound Eyes and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Compound Eyes. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Compound Eyes with an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. From Pokémon Emerald onward, if a Pokémon with this Ability leads the party (even if fainted), the chances of finding a wild Pokémon holding an item increase from 50%/5% to 60%/20%. In dark grass in Generation V, the chances increase from 50%/5%/1% to 60%/20%/5%. In Generation VIII, this effect is shared with Super Luck. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Compound Eyes has no effect on the items held by wild Pokémon. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Compoundeyes increases accuracy by two stages. In volume 25, Yellow's Butterfree, Kitty, was revealed to have Compound Eyes as his Ability.

Title: Insomnia (Ability)

Insomnia (Japanese: ふみん Insomnia) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Insomnia prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by sleep and Yawn. Rest will fail when used by the Pokémon. A Pokémon with this Ability will wake up if it is asleep in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is put to sleep by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If the Pokémon with this Ability is asleep and is holding a Chesto or Lum Berry, Insomnia will cure the Pokémon of sleep before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. If a Pokémon with this Ability is drowsy due to Yawn, when it would fall asleep the Ability activates and keeps it awake. The move Worry Seed can change the target Pokémon's Ability to Insomnia. If a sleeping Pokémon with Insomnia is sent into battle as one of the lead Pokémon or to replace a fainted Pokémon, or gains Insomnia due to Trace, it will not be cured of sleep until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). It will be cured of sleep if it is switched in to replace a switched out Pokémon (including if switched in via Baton Pass). If a sleeping Pokémon has Insomnia as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain asleep when switched out. When a sleeping Pokémon with Insomnia enters battle, it will be cured of sleep. If a sleeping Pokémon has Insomnia as its original Ability but not its current Ability, if it is one of the active Pokémon at the end of the battle or switched out, it will be cured of sleep (with no message). If a sleeping Pokémon has Insomnia as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain asleep when switched out. If a sleeping Pokémon gains Insomnia by Evolution or the Ability Capsule, it will not wake up until sent into battle. Pokémon with Insomnia will not be put to sleep by the Gentleman's Kirlia in the Battle Pike nor the Battle Arcade's game board. In volume 42, Silver's Honchkrow was revealed to have Insomnia as his Ability. Cyrus's Honchkrow was revealed to have Insomnia as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Janine's Ariados was revealed to have Insomnia as his Ability. Roxanne's Cradily was revealed to have Insomnia as its Ability.* It is one of three Abilities that prevent sleep, the others being Vital Spirit and Sweet Veil. Delibird has Insomnia as its Hidden Ability, despite already having Vital Spirit as a regular Ability, which has the same effect.

Title: Color Change (Ability)

Color Change (Japanese: へんしょく Color Change) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. It is the signature Ability of Kecleon. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a damage-dealing move (with some exceptions mentioned below), the Pokémon's types will be changed to the type of the move that it was hit by. Even if the Pokémon with Color Change has two types, it will only have a single type after the effect is applied. Color Change does not activate if the Pokémon is hit by a move of the same type as itself, even if the Pokémon has two or three types (the latter from Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat). Color Change does not activate if the Pokémon's substitute is hit. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by Weather Ball during shadowy aura, it will become Normal-type. Status conditions are inflicted before Color Change activates. As a result, even if Color Change would make the Pokémon become a type that is immune to the status condition, the Pokémon can still be afflicted with the status condition; for example, a Pokémon with Color Change that is hit by Poison Sting has a chance to be poisoned before it becomes Poison-type. Color Change is not activated by Struggle, Shadow moves, Stellar moves, Pain Split, or a typeless Revelation Dance. It will also not activate if the Pokémon is affected by Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat and is hit by a Grass or Ghost-type move, respectively. Color Change will activate after the first hit of a multistrike move. Future Sight and Doom Desire do not activate Color Change. Color Change now activates after the last hit of a multistrike move. Future Sight and Doom Desire now activate Color Change when they hit (they do not activate Color Change when used). Color Change shares its Japanese name with a Pokémon Power which has a similar effect. Color Change is the first Ability demonstrated in Pokémon animation, as well as the only one seen in the original series. It is also the first Ability demonstrated in Pokémon Adventures.

Title: Immunity (Ability)

"Immunity" redirects here. For the type mechanic, see Type → Type effectiveness. Immunity (Japanese: めんえき Immunity) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Immunity prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by poison. A Pokémon with this Ability will be cured of poison if it is poisoned while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is poisoned by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If the Pokémon with this Ability is poisoned and is holding a Pecha, Lum, or Drash Berry, Immunity will cure the Pokémon of poison before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. If a poisoned Pokémon with Immunity is sent into battle as one of the lead Pokémon or to replace a fainted Pokémon, or gains Immunity due to Trace, it will not be cured of poison until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). It will be cured of poison if it is switched in to replace a switched out Pokémon (including if switched in via Baton Pass). If a poisoned Pokémon has Immunity as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain poisoned when switched out. When a poisoned Pokémon with Immunity enters battle, it will be cured of poison. If a poisoned Pokémon has Immunity as its original Ability but not its current Ability, if it is one of the active Pokémon at the end of the battle or switched out, it will be cured of poison (with no message). If a poisoned Pokémon has Immunity as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain poisoned when switched out. A Pokémon with Immunity can be poisoned by Sunsteel Strike if the attacker has Poison Touch, but will be cured of poison immediately. In Generation III and IV, poison will still hurt a Pokémon outside of battle even if it has Immunity. If a poisoned Pokémon gains Immunity by Evolution or Ability Capsule, it will not be cured of poison until sent into battle. Pokémon with Immunity will not be poisoned by the Gentleman's Kirlia in the Battle Pike nor the Battle Arcade's game board. In volume 23, Red's Snorlax, Snor, was revealed to have Immunity as his Ability. Sidney's Zangoose is revealed to have Immunity as his Ability. Zangoose's inspiration, the mongoose, is likely the reason it has this Ability, as mongooses may be resistant or immune to snake venom.

Title: Flash Fire (Ability)

Flash Fire redirects here. For the TCG expansion, see Flashfire (TCG). Flash Fire (Japanese: もらいび Catching on Fire) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Flash Fire makes the Pokémon immune to Fire-type moves and will activate when hit by one. When activated, the power of the Pokémon's Fire-type moves is increased by 50%. While subsequent hits by Fire-type moves will not provide further increases in power, the Pokémon remains immune to the moves. Flash Fire will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Fire-type move. Flash Fire will not work while the user is frozen. Instead of boosting Fire-type moves' power, Flash Fire now technically boosts the Pokémon's Attack or Special Attack by 50% during damage calculation if a Fire-type move is being used, resulting in effectively the same effect. Flash Fire is now functional even if the user is frozen. The Pokémon will not be thawed out, however. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, if a Pokémon with Flash Fire is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 51% chance the game will force an encounter with a Fire-type Pokémon, if one is possible. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the chance is 50%. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle, with its former field function effectively being replaced by Meal Powers. In the Generation V and VI games, Entei has Flash Fire as its Hidden Ability, but it cannot be obtained by any legitimate means. Its Hidden Ability is replaced with Inner Focus in Generation VII. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Typhlosion's Hidden Ability is Flash Fire instead of Frisk. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Flash Fire will neutralize Fire-type moves and increase the Pokémon's Flash Fire value by 1 for the rest of the floor; this effect can be stacked twice. If the Pokémon performs a Fire-type move, their Special Attack is temporarily increased by that amount of stages (but cannot increase past +10). In Clash! Yū vs. The Wandering Player, Yū's Heatran was revealed to have Flash Fire as its Ability, but it wasn't shown to be activated. It was gained by his Bronzong through Skill Swap and was later passed on to his Scizor. In volume 40, Platinum's Rapidash was revealed to have Flash Fire as his Ability. In Volume 4 of the Scarlet & Violet arc, Scarlet's Armarouge was revealed to have Flash Fire as his Ability. Blue's Ninetales was revealed to have Flash Fire as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Blaine's Growlithe, Bianca's Lampent, and Charon's Heatran were revealed to have Flash Fire as their Ability. Red's Eevee, Vee, is revealed to have Flash Fire as his Ability when transformed into a Flareon. Out of the Abilities that negate damage and provide a stat boost when hit by a certain type of attack, Flash Fire is the only one that does not provide stackable boosts or extra benefits with subsequent hits. Rolycoly is the only non-Fire-type Pokémon to have access to Flash Fire.

Title: Shield Dust (Ability)

Shield Dust (Japanese: りんぷん Scales) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Pokémon with Shield Dust are unaffected by the additional effects of other Pokémon's damaging moves, including additional effects provided by Poison Touch, Toxic Chain, Stench, King's Rock, and Razor Fang. For example, a Pokémon with Shield Dust cannot be frozen by Blizzard or made to flinch by Fake Out. Shield Dust has no effect on status moves (such as Thunder Wave or Leech Seed) or Max Moves. It also doesn't prevent additional effects that apply to the user, so for example a Pokémon using Flame Charge will still be able to increase its own Speed even if it hits a target that has Shield Dust. Shield Dust prevents a Pokémon's burn being cured by Sparkling Aria if it is the only target of the attack (even in battles such as Double Battles, as long as there are no other targets of Sparkling Aria); however, if the attack has multiple targets, all targets will be cured on burn even if they have Shield Dust. (Wake-Up Slap and Smelling Salts, which also cure status conditions, are not considered to have additional effects and thus are not affected by Shield Dust.) This behavior is unique to Sparkling Aria—for example, Shield Dust prevents a Pokémon from being paralyzed by Discharge regardless of the number of targets. Yellow's Caterpie, Kitty, and Green's Weedle were revealed to have Shield Dust as their Ability. Shield Dust effectively prevents the Pokémon from being frozen in battle by any Pokémon (except those with Mold Breaker or one of its variants), as the Freeze status ailment is always caused as a secondary effect of an opponent's move, and the status cannot be passed to another Pokémon via Baton Pass or Synchronize. Similarly, Shield Dust prevents the Pokémon from flinching as it is always caused as a secondary effect of an opponent's move. Every Pokémon that can have Shield Dust as an Ability is Bug-type. Shield Dust is replaced with Shed Skin for the middle stage of every three-stage evolutionary line that has it. Notably, these middle stage Pokémon are all based on cocoons or (in Spewpa's case) cased larvae.

Title: Own Tempo (Ability)

Own Tempo (Japanese: マイペース My Pace) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Own Tempo prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by confusion, even if it is self-inflicted (such as from moves like Thrash or items like the Iapapa Berry). A Pokémon with this Ability will be cured of confusion if it is confused while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability by an effect like Skill Swap, or is confused by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If a Pokémon with Own Tempo is confused due to obtaining it from Baton Pass, it will be cured of confusion as soon as it switches in. If a Pokémon with Trace is sent into battle via Baton Pass and is confused as a result, if it gains Own Tempo via Trace it will not be cured of confusion until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). If the Pokémon with this Ability is confused and is holding a Persim, Lum, or Touga Berry, Own Tempo will cure the Pokémon of confusion before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. If a Pokémon with Trace is sent into battle via Baton Pass and is confused as a result, if it gains Own Tempo via Trace it will be cured of confusion immediately. In Generation IV only, if a Pokémon is confused and has a status condition, if its confusion is cured by Own Tempo, the status condition icon will disappear from the HP bar while it is in battle. The status condition will continue to take effect, however. If a Pokémon with Own Tempo is confused due to obtaining it from Baton Pass, it will not be cured of confusion until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). If the Pokémon with this Ability is confused and is holding a Persim or Lum Berry, the Berry will be eaten before Own Tempo cures the Pokémon of confusion. Rockruff with Own Tempo is treated as a separate form, which is only capable of evolving into Dusk Form Lycanroc. The Ability Capsule and Ability Patch are unable to change Rockruff's Ability from or to Own Tempo. Due to the form inheritance rules when breeding, if a Rockruff with Own Tempo or a Dusk Form Lycanroc is the mother or is bred with Ditto, it will produce more Rockruff with Own Tempo. Since this form was introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon (along with Dusk Form Lycanroc), it cannot be traded to Pokémon Sun and Moon or Wonder Traded. In Rayquaza Redemption I, Norman's Spinda was revealed to have Own Tempo as its Ability, but it was Skill Swapped with his Slaking's Truant Ability. In Well Met, Weepinbell, Diamond's Lickilicky, Kit, was revealed to have Own Tempo as his Ability, but it couldn't be used because Sebastian's Weepinbell cancelled it out with Gastro Acid. Due to a glitch in Generation IV, if a Pokémon has a non-volatile status condition and has its confusion cured by Own Tempo, the status condition icon will disappear from the HP bar while that Pokémon is in battle; however, it will still be displayed in the party menu and will be restored if the Pokémon switches out and then back in. The same is true for infatuation and Oblivious.

Title: Suction Cups (Ability)

Suction Cups (Japanese: きゅうばん Suction Cups) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. This Ability prevents other Pokémon from forcing the Pokémon with this Ability to switch out or flee with a move (e.g. Roar, Circle Throw, etc.) or item (Red Card). Suction Cups does not affect the Pokémon switching out manually, or switching out or fleeing with its own move (e.g. Baton Pass, Teleport, etc.) or item (Eject Button). Even if the Pokémon with this Ability is Ghost-type or holds a Shed Shell or Smoke Ball, it cannot be forced to switch or flee. If a Pokémon with this Ability is under the effect of Ingrain, Suction Cups will take priority over Ingrain if it would be forced to switch or flee. If a Pokémon with Suction Cups hits a Pokémon holding a Red Card, the Red Card will still activate and be consumed, but fails to cause that Pokémon to switch out or flee. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Suction Cups is in first place in the player's party (even if fainted), bites will occur more often while fishing. Sticky Hold has the same effect. Due to an error in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Ability has no effect outside of battle in those games. This behavior is kept in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, where the Ability also has no effect outside of battle. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, if a Pokémon with Suction Cups breaks a rock, it receives a flat 5% increase in odds of finding an item. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, Pokémon with this Ability cannot be blown away (such as by Vital Throw or the Gust Trap), warped (such as by the Warp Trap), or be forced to move (such as by Baton Pass). In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Pokémon with this Ability cannot be blown away (such as by Roar or Whirlwind Wand), or warped, but can be forced to move (such as by Baton Pass or U-turn). Every Pokémon with this Ability belongs to one of the Water Egg Groups.

Title: Intimidate (Ability)

Intimidate (Japanese: いかく Intimidate) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with Intimidate enters the battle, it lowers the Attack stat of all adjacent opponents by one stage. In Generations III and IV, Intimidate's activation message reads, "<Pokémon>'s Intimidate cuts <opponent>'s attack!" Intimidate has no effect on Pokémon who are immune to Attack stat reductions, such as Pokémon with Clear Body, Hyper Cutter, or White Smoke. This Ability will not affect a target with a substitute. Intimidate now also activates when a Pokémon gains the Ability, such as via Skill Swap or Mega Evolution. In Generation V, the message changed to "<Opponent>'s Attack fell!" In a Triple Battle, Intimidate does not affect non-adjacent Pokémon. Intimidate does not affect Pokémon with the Full Metal Body Ability. Wild Pokémon are more likely to call for help when facing a Pokémon with Intimidate. It shares this effect with Pressure and Unnerve. If a Pokémon holding an Adrenaline Orb is affected by Intimidate, the item will be consumed and increase the holder's Speed by one stage. Intimidate no longer affects Pokémon with Oblivious, Own Tempo, Inner Focus, or Scrappy. Intimidate also now triggers Rattled. Intimidate raises the Attack stat of a Pokémon with Guard Dog by one stage, instead of lowering it. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Intimidate is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 50% chance it will prevent a random wild encounter that would have occurred if the wild Pokémon would be at least 5 levels lower than the Pokémon with Intimidate. It shares this effect with Keen Eye. Intimidate appears to have no effect outside of battle. The stats shown above are the exact stats, not base stats. The values are custom set rather than derived from base stats, level, Nature, IVs, and EVs. When an adjacent enemy Pokémon attacks a Pokémon with the Ability Intimidate, the power of physical moves are reduced by 20%. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, the rental Mawile that Noland used during his Battle Factory match against Emerald was revealed to have Intimidate as his Ability by Emerald's Pokédex. In Salamence Evolves, Zinnia's Salamence was mentioned to have Intimidate as its Ability, but it wasn't shown activating it. In volume 40, Pearl's Luxray, Rayler, was revealed to have Intimidate as his Ability. In volume 42, Crystal's Arcanine, Archy, was revealed to have Intimidate as his Ability. In volume 42, Silver's Gyarados was revealed to have Intimidate as his Ability. Blue's Arcanine, Ruby's Mightyena, Nana, X's Mega Manectric, Élec, and Lysandre Gyarados were revealed to have Intimidate as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Lance's Gyarados, Winona's Masquerain, Spenser's Salamence, Lenora's Stoutland, and Staravia used by Team Galactic Grunts were revealed to have Intimidate as their Ability. Prior to becoming an Ability, Intimidate appeared as a TCG Attack.

Title: Shadow Tag (Ability)

Shadow Tag (Japanese: かげふみ Stepping on Shadows) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Wynaut and Wobbuffet. Shadow Tag prevents all adjacent opponents from fleeing (including Teleport) or switching out while the Pokémon with this Ability is on the field. However, if a Pokémon with Shadow Tag switches in, opponents are not prevented from switching out for that turn. Using Baton Pass, U-turn, Volt Switch, Flip Turn, or Parting Shot will still cause the Pokémon to switch out. Having the Ability Run Away or holding a Smoke Ball allows the Pokémon to flee or Teleport, but not switch. If the player does not switch out a fainted Pokémon and instead attempts to flee, they will not be affected by a wild Pokémon with Shadow Tag. Shadow Tag now makes the Pokémon immune to the effects of other Pokémon's Shadow Tag. Holding a Shed Shell allows the Pokémon to switch out, but not flee or Teleport. Ghost-type Pokémon are now immune to Shadow Tag. In Pokémon X and Y, Shadow Tag will not prevent roaming Pokémon from fleeing because they will flee before the battle even starts. In the Generation V games, Litwick, Lampent, and Chandelure have Shadow Tag as their Hidden Ability, but they cannot be obtained with it by any legitimate means. Their Hidden Ability is replaced with Infiltrator in Generation VI. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, when a Pokémon with this Ability is attacked, there is a 12% chance that the attacking Pokémon may become immobilized. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Shadow Tag prevents any adjacent Pokémon from moving, although they are still able to use moves or items. It has no effect on Ghost-type Pokémon and Pokémon with the Run Away or Shadow Tag Ability. Mirei's Wobbuffet is revealed to have Shadow Tag as its Ability.

Title: Rough Skin (Ability)

Rough Skin (Japanese: さめはだ Rough Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Carvanha and Sharpedo. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Gible's evolutionary line. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the attacking Pokémon takes damage equal to 1/16 of its own maximum HP. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit will activate this Ability. If the contact move hitting the Pokémon with this Ability does 0 damage (for example, if the Pokémon with this Ability uses Endure at 1 HP) this Ability will not trigger. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the attacking Pokémon now takes damage equal to 1/8 of its own maximum HP. If Rough Skin causes both the Pokémon with this Ability and the attacking Pokémon to faint, then the attacking Pokémon will faint first. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the Ability will trigger even if that move deals 0 damage. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when a Pokémon with this Ability is attacked by an adjacent Pokémon, the attacking Pokémon might take damage equal to half of the damage done. Since Gates to Infinity, Rough Skin causes the attacking Pokémon to take damage equal to 1/10 of their maximum HP. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit will activate this Ability. In Pokémon UNITE, Rough Skin is Garchomp's Ability. When the user is hit by a melee attack, a portion of the damage received is dealt back to the attacker. This Ability can only activate no faster than every 2 seconds, and takes defense reduction into account. Archie's Sharpedo was revealed to have Rough Skin as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Sharpedo's Japanese name is "サメハダー" Samehader, which is pulled directly from the same derivation as Rough Skin's Japanese name, "さめはだ" Samehada, meaning 'shark skin'.

Title: Wonder Guard (Ability)

Wonder Guard (Japanese: ふしぎなまもり Mysterious Protection) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. It is the signature Ability of Shedinja. A Pokémon with Wonder Guard is immune to damaging moves that are not super effective, except Struggle. This also applies to damaging moves that do not increase their damage based on type effectiveness, such moves that deal direct damage, counterattack moves, and one-hit knockout moves. For example, a Shedinja (Bug/Ghost) with Wonder Guard is immune to Metal Burst (Steel-type), Psywave (Psychic-type), and Fissure (Ground-type), but not Night Shade (Ghost-type). Wonder Guard does not protect against status moves (for instance, Tail Whip or Poison Powder), and it does not prevent indirect damage such as from burn, poison, confusion, weather, recoil, or entry hazards. Wonder Guard can be bypassed by moves and Abilities that ignore Abilities (such as Sunsteel Strike and Mold Breaker). Wonder Guard can be copied by Trace or acquired with a transformation from Transform or Imposter. There is no other legitimate way for any Pokémon besides Shedinja to obtain Wonder Guard. Role Play fails if the target has the Ability Wonder Guard. Skill Swap fails if either Pokémon has Wonder Guard. Wonder Guard cannot be copied by Power of Alchemy or Receiver. Wandering Spirit will not swap Abilities with Wonder Guard. A Flying-type Pokemon with Wonder Guard will not take damage during strong winds if the move is not super effective against the Pokémon's other type. A typeless Pokémon with Wonder Guard (such as a pure Fire-type Pokémon that used Burn Up) is immune to damaging moves of all types. Typeless damage is not blocked by Wonder Guard. Due to dealing typeless damage in these games, Beat Up, Future Sight, and Doom Desire bypass Wonder Guard. Additionally, Weather Ball used during shadowy aura deals typeless damage, so bypasses Wonder Guard. Shadow moves bypass Wonder Guard, regardless of whether the move is considered super effective or not. Due to a glitch, Fire Fang is able to hit through Wonder Guard, even if the target does not have a weakness to Fire-type moves. In Pokémon Emerald, if the active Pokémon of an NPC trainer has no moves that can bypass the player's Wonder Guard, they will switch to a Pokémon that has at least one move that can bypass Wonder Guard, if they have one. If none of the NPC's Pokémon can bypass Wonder Guard, then they will not switch. Typeless damage is now blocked by Wonder Guard, except from Struggle. Fire Fang also no longer bypasses Wonder Guard. In Pokémon Rumble World, Shedinja has the Wonder Guard ability, randomly granting it full immunity to moves which are not super effective. Wonder Guard makes the Pokémon immune to damaging moves with a type which are not super effective. It does not prevent any indirect damage, such as from burn, weather and recoil. It also does not protect the Pokémon against other typeless damage such as from traps, throwing items, or wands. Damage taken from regular attacks is reduced to 1, unless the attacker has the Set Damage status. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the regular attack has no effect against Wonder Guard. In Sneaky Like Shedinja, Greta's Shedinja was mentioned to have Wonder Guard as its Ability. Crystal's Shedinja is revealed to have Wonder Guard as its Ability. Prior to the introduction of the Fairy-type in Generation VI, the type combination of Dark/Ghost had no weaknesses. When combined with Wonder Guard, this prevents all direct damage. This characteristic was showcased in-game with the Pokéstar Studios opponent Majin, requiring the player to deal indirect damage or change Majin's Ability or type to defeat it. There are several ways to make a Pokémon with Wonder Guard have no weaknesses: If a pure Electric-type or Poison/Dark-type Pokémon has Wonder Guard (e.g. Shedinja using Reflect Type or Entrainment via Mimic on a pure Electric-type or Poison/Dark-type Pokémon) and holds an Air Balloon, it becomes immune to all 18 types. However, it can still be hit by Thousand Arrows, and if the Pokémon becomes grounded it can be hit by any Ground-type move. If a pure Fire-type Pokémon that used Burn Up to become typeless has Wonder Guard (e.g. by Shedinja using Entrainment via Mimic on that Pokémon), Wonder Guard blocks all damage moves due to typeless Pokémon having no weaknesses. Wonder Guard is the only thing that can make a Pokémon immune to Flying, Rock, Bug, Steel, Ice, Dark, or Fairy-type moves.

Title: Levitate (Ability)

Levitate (Japanese: ふゆう Floating) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Levitate renders the Pokémon with this Ability immune to damaging Ground-type moves (except Thousand Arrows). It also makes it ungrounded, therefore unaffected by the effects of Arena Trap, Spikes, Toxic Spikes, Sticky Web, Rototiller, and terrain. Additionally, Poison-type Pokémon with Levitate do not remove Toxic Spikes upon switching in. These immunities are lost during Gravity or if the Pokémon with Levitate is holding an Iron Ball, is under the effects of Ingrain, or has been hit by Smack Down or Thousand Arrows. Pokémon with this Ability are eligible to enter Sky Battles, except Gengar because its model lands on the ground when entering the battle. Prior to Generation VII, Gengar had Levitate instead of Cursed Body. In Pokémon UNITE, Levitate is Gengar's Ability. When the user leaves combat, its movement speed is increased by 10% for 8s. In PASV12, Iono's Mismagius was mentioned to have Levitate as its Ability. Koga's Weezing and Koffing, Agatha's Gengar, Morty's Misdreavus and Gastly, Wally's Flygon, Tate's Solrock, Liza's Lunatone, Fantina's Mismagius and Duskull, Palmer's Cresselia, Brycen's Cryogonal, Ghetsis's Hydreigon and Eelektross, Buck's Claydol, a group of Unown controlled by Sird, Latios, Latias, Giratina in its Origin Forme, and Hugh's Eelektross were revealed to have Levitate as their Ability. In PBK4, Yū's Heatran gained Levitate when his Bronzong used Skill Swap on it. Levitate debuted as a Poké-BODY in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Vibrava from the EX Dragon expansion. If a Pokémon with Levitate as a Poké-BODY or Ability has any Energy attached to it, it has no Retreat Cost. At its debut on EX Dragon Vibrava, the Poké-BODY only worked with Basic Energy cards instead of any Energy cards. The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Levitate Poké-BODY or Ability. Many non-Flying-type Pokémon that have been seen to be capable of floating or flying, such as Beedrill or Miraidon, cannot have this Ability. Despite the fact that its descriptions from Generation IV on state that Levitate gives immunity to all Ground-type moves, Pokémon with Levitate are affected by the status move Sand Attack. Fan Rotom is the only Pokémon with this Ability to be naturally immune to Ground-type moves due to being Flying-type in Generation V and onward. This is the most common Ability among the winning Video Game World Championships teams. This is the most common Ability in Generation VII, with 40 different cases of it, including Mega Evolution and Pokémon with alternate forms. This is the most common Ability to be a Pokémon's only Ability option. Levitate is the only Ability that provides immunity to an attack type to not restore HP or alter the stats or damage output of the Pokémon when hit by the attack.

Title: Effect Spore (Ability)

Effect Spore (Japanese: ほうし Spore) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a 10% chance that the attacking Pokémon will become either poisoned, paralyzed, or asleep, with a 3.3% probability each. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit has an independent chance to activate this Ability. If Effect Spore causes the user of the multistrike move to fall asleep, the move ends immediately. If a Pokémon is immune to some of the status conditions, then the chance of inflicting each of the remaining conditions is constant, so the total chance of successfully inflicting a condition decreases. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a 30% chance that the attacking Pokémon will become either poisoned, paralyzed, or asleep, with a 10% probability each. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a 9% chance of poison, 10% chance of paralysis, and 11% chance of sleep. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding Safety Goggles are now immune to Effect Spore. Effect Spore does not activate if the Pokémon with the Ability is knocked out by a hit. Effect Spore played a major role in The Power of Us. Team Rocket attempted to raid Fula City's Pokémon Research Pavilion, but only got away with a solution of Effect Spore made by Toren. They later dropped it on accident, which released a toxic gas that in turn triggered a devastating fire. Both disasters endangered Fula City, but Ash and the citizens worked together to successfully combat both. Whitley's Foongus, Foongy, is revealed to have Effect Spore as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Effect Spore is the only Ability that can cause sleep.

Title: Synchronize (Ability)

Synchronize (Japanese: シンクロ Synchro) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with Synchronize is burned, paralyzed, or poisoned by another Pokémon, that Pokémon will be inflicted with the same status condition. Synchronize will not inflict confusion, sleep, or freeze. Even if Synchronize would have no effect due to the other Pokémon already having a status condition or the other Pokémon's type, Ability, or team condition (e.g. Safeguard), it will still activate (revealing it as the Pokémon's Ability), but have no effect. Synchronize can affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. Synchronize can be activated by other Pokémon's Abilities, such as Static, but cannot be activated by the Toxic Orb or Flame Orb. If a Pokémon with Synchronize has a Berry that cures the status condition it was just inflicted with, Synchronize will activate before the Berry is eaten. When a Pokémon with Synchronize is badly poisoned by another Pokémon, that Pokémon will be inflicted with the regular poison condition. If Psycho Shift is used by a burned, paralyzed, or poisoned Pokémon targeting a Pokémon with Synchronize, Synchronize activates after Psycho Shift cures the user of its status condition. Therefore, Synchronize will inflict the status condition anew in such a case. If a single move such as Discharge results in a status ailment being given to more than one Pokémon (including as a result of Synchronize itself), Pokémon that receive the status in even-numbered orders (second, and possibly fourth) will not be able to activate Synchronize even if they have that ability. Toxic Spikes do not activate this Ability unless a Pokémon on the field directly causes a Pokémon with Synchronize to switch in, such as by using the moves Roar or Whirlwind. When a Pokémon with Synchronize is badly poisoned by another Pokémon, that Pokémon will now be inflicted with the bad poison condition, rather than the regular poison condition. If Psycho Shift is used by a burned, paralyzed, poisoned, or badly poisoned Pokémon targeting a Pokémon with Synchronize, Synchronize now activates before Psycho Shift cures the user of its status condition. Therefore, Synchronize will fail to inflict the status condition anew in such a case. If multiple Pokémon receive a status from the same move, Synchronize now gets an opportunity to activate for any Pokémon that has it, regardless of what order they received the status in. Synchronize can now cause another Pokémon's Synchronize to activate, but if this happens, the original Pokémon therefore already has a status condition, and it will merely cause an ability message to appear with no other effect. Toxic Spikes do not activate this Ability, even if another Pokémon forced the Pokémon with this Ability to switch in by using a move like Roar or Dragon Tail. In SOS Battles, if a Pokémon with Synchronize is in the first slot of the party when the wild Pokémon calls an ally, there is a 50% chance that the called ally will be forced to have the same Nature as the Pokémon that was originally in the first slot when the battle began (which is not necessarily the Pokémon with Synchronize). From Pokémon Emerald onward, if a Pokémon with Synchronize is in the first slot in the party (even if fainted) when a wild Pokémon is encountered, there is a 50% chance that the game will force it to have the same Nature as the Pokémon in the first slot. (Otherwise, the Nature is chosen at random, so the Pokémon still has a 1-in-25 chance of having the same Nature as the lead Pokémon.) This does not apply to roaming Pokémon, Pokémon in the Pokéwalker, or Pokémon in the Entree Forest. In Emerald, it also does not apply to stationary Pokémon (such as Regirock or Rayquaza). From Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire onward, if a Pokémon with Synchronize is leading the party, gift Pokémon (except Pokémon obtained via Mystery Gift and Eggs) that are in the No Eggs Discovered Egg Group will always have the same Nature as the Pokémon with this Ability. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon only, if a Pokémon with Synchronize is leading the party, gift Pokémon (except Pokémon obtained via Mystery Gift and Eggs) will always have the same Nature as the Pokémon with this Ability, regardless of Egg Group. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, if a Pokémon with Synchronize is leading the party, wild Pokémon are now guaranteed to have the same Nature as the leading Pokémon (ignoring any Mints). This does not apply to static encounters (such as Zacian, Calyrex, or the legendary giants), but it does apply to wandering and roaming Pokémon (such as the Swords of Justice and Galarian legendary birds). Pokémon encountered in Max Raid Battles or obtained as gift Pokémon are also not affected by Synchronize. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, entering a Pokémon Hideaway with a lead Pokémon with Synchronize causes all wild Pokémon inside to have the same Nature as the leader. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Synchronize no longer has an effect on the Nature of wild Pokémon. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, if the user gets inflicted with paralysis, burn, poison or bad poison, it will inflict all adjacent enemies with that status condition (if possible). Bad poison will be transferred as bad poison, unlike in the core series games prior to Generation V. In Pokémon UNITE, Synchronize is Gardevoir's Ability. When an opponent inflicts movement speed reduction or damage over time on the user, this ability inflicts that same effect on the opponent. It goes on a 9s cooldown after being triggered. Synchronize is also Mew's Ability, but has a different effect. Mew's Synchronize increases the movement speed of the user and nearby allied Pokémon by 15% whenever the Pokémon with Synchronize uses a move. This effect lasts for two seconds. Red's Espeon, Vee, and Green's Abra were revealed to have Synchronize as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Sabrina's Alakazam, Greta's Umbreon, and Mew were revealed to have Synchronize as their Ability.

Title: Clear Body (Ability)

Clear Body (Japanese: クリアボディ Clear Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Clear Body prevents stat reduction caused by other Pokémon's moves and Abilities (such as Scary Face and Intimidate), including Sticky Web. Clear Body does not prevent self-inflicted stat reductions such as from moves like Superpower or Shell Smash. Clear Body only protects from effects that lower stat stages, so it does not prevent stat reduction from items like the Iron Ball, the status conditions paralysis or burn, or the moves Guard Split or Power Split. Clear Body does not prevent stat stages being directly modified by Heart Swap, Guard Swap, Power Swap, Baton Pass, or Topsy-Turvy. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e., resetting) positive stat changes. This Ability is ignored by moves and Abilities that ignore Abilities, such as Mold Breaker. Crystal's Metagross, Steven's Metagross, Beldum, and Metang, Brandon's Regirock, Registeel, and Regice, and a Diancie that Ruby used were revealed to have Clear Body as their Ability. In A Novel Test!!, Candice's Regice and Registeel were both mentioned to have Clear Body, but neither of them were shown activating it.

Title: Natural Cure (Ability)

Natural Cure (Japanese: しぜんかいふく Natural Recovery) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Natural Cure heals any status conditions upon switching out. This effect will occur if Natural Cure is the Pokémon's Ability in battle when it switches out and is not suppressed; a Pokémon that obtained the Ability with Trace will have its status condition cured when it switches out, whereas a Pokémon which has Natural Cure but has been affected by Gastro Acid will not. Enemy trainers will only intentionally switch out a Pokémon with Natural Cure to heal them when they are asleep. Natural Cure also heals any status conditions upon completing a battle (if it was in battle at the end of the battle). Natural Cure no longer heals any status conditions upon completing a battle. From Generations IV to VII, Natural Cure automatically heals status conditions upon the end of a battle. In Pokémon UNITE, Natural Cure is Blissey's and Trevenant's Ability. Blissey's removes all debuffs from the user every 6 seconds. This will trigger even if Blissey currently has no debuffs. Trevenant's causes the user to recover HP every .5s for 4s, after falling below 35% HP and it also reduces the cooldowns of the user's moves by 1s every second. When the HP recovery effect ends, this ability goes on a 100s cooldown, but each time the user hits an opponent with any of its moves, this ability's cooldown gets decreased by 1s (but not more often than every .5s). In The Power of Us, during two simultaneous disasters in Fula City, Toren and his fellow Scientists attempted to create an elixir out of Natural Cure in the Pokémon Research Pavilion. However, a blackout occurred before the solution could be finished, forcing Toren to improvise with Team Rocket's Lum Berries. In Moving Past Milotic, Crystal's Starmie was revealed to have Natural Cure as its Ability. Winona's Altaria and Swablu, Marley's Land Forme Shaymin, and Celebi were revealed to have Natural Cure as their Ability. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Natural Cure is rendered as Natural Recovery, a direct translation of its Japanese name. Due to the user interface displaying how many of the opponent's Pokémon have status conditions, even though Natural Cure does not have an activation message, it is possible to deduce that a Pokémon had Natural Cure the next time the Poké Balls representing the opponent's party are displayed. In Generation III, this is when the opponent switches Pokémon. In Generation IV, this is both when the opponent switches Pokémon and on the move selection screen. From Generation V onward, it is visible on the move selection screen only.

Title: Lightning Rod (Ability)

Lightning Rod (Japanese: ひらいしん Lightning Rod), formatted as Lightningrod prior to Pokémon X and Y, is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Lightning Rod forces single-target Electric-type moves to target the Pokémon with this Ability. If another Pokémon becomes the center of attention, Electric-type moves will be directed to it instead of the Pokémon with Lightning Rod. In Triple Battles, Lightning Rod cannot redirect Electric-type moves if the Pokémon is out of range. Lightning Rod cannot redirect Electric-type Hidden Power. Electric-type moves used by foes and allies will now never miss the Pokémon with this Ability, unless it is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly (Thunder will never miss a Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly or Bounce). Lightning Rod cannot redirect Electric-type Judgment or Natural Gift. Along with its previous effects, Lightning Rod also gives the Pokémon immunity to all Electric-type moves, and raises the Pokémon's Special Attack by one stage whenever it is hit by an Electric-type move. Electric-type multistrike moves (such as multistrike moves affected by Electrify or Electric-type moves affected by Parental Bond) will only activate this effect once. If the Pokémon is protected from the move or immune to the move due to being Ground-type, its Special Attack will not increase. If a Pokémon with Lightning Rod is targeted by an Electric-type move while holding a Cell Battery, Lightning Rod absorbs the move, so the Cell Battery's effect is not triggered. Lightning Rod can now redirect Electric-type Hidden Power, Judgment, and Natural Gift. However, it will not redirect Sky Drop (if it was changed to Electric-Type by Electrify). A Ground-type Pokémon will now activate Lightning Rod and boost its Special Attack. The Abilities Propeller Tail and Stalwart bypass the targeting effect of Lightning Rod but not the Electric-type immunity. In Dynamax Raids, Lightning Rod will draw Electric attacks from ally Pokémon. In Pokémon Emerald, Trainers registered with the PokéNav's Match Call function will call twice as often if a Pokémon with Lightning Rod is in the first place in the party (even if fainted). In Pokémon Sword and Shield, if a Pokémon with Lightning Rod is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 51% chance the game will force an encounter with a Electric-type Pokémon, if one is possible. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the chance is 50%. It shares this effect with Static. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle, with its former field function effectively being replaced by Meal Powers. In Generation V games, Zapdos has Lightning Rod as its Hidden Ability, but it cannot be obtained by any legitimate means. It is replaced with Static as its Hidden Ability in Generation VI. The ability is known as "Lightningrod" in Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, as well as Gates to Infinity. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, the ability is referred to as "LightningRod". From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon onwards the ability uses its current name, "Lightning Rod". In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, as well as Explorers of Time and Darkness, a Pokémon with Lightning Rod draws in all enemy Electric-type attacks on the floor, completely neutralizing them. Unlike the main series, Lightning Rod is capable of attracting moves that target multiple Pokémon. In Explorers of Sky, the effect is now only room-wide. Starting from Gates to Infinity, Lightning Rod now also increases the Pokémon's Special Attack. In volume 42, Crystal's Cubone, Bonee, was revealed to have Lightning Rod as his Ability. In volume 42, Silver's Rhyperior was revealed to have Lightning Rod as his Ability. In Riddle Me This, Pikachu is able to defeat Blaine's Rhydon by aiming his Electric attack at the Rhydon's horn, with it being stated that the horn acts as a lightning rod, apparently allowing Pikachu to overcome Rhydon's normal immunity to Electric attacks. However, in Generations III and IV, it didn't affect type immunity at all, and now nullifies damage from Electric-type moves starting from Generation V. In Tag! We're It...!, the ability Lightning Rod and type-effectiveness of Electric-type moves on Ground-types have been correctly depicted. Similarly, Pikachu's feat in Electric Shock Showdown! of insulating himself from Lt. Surge's Raichu's Thunderbolt with his tail is similar to the Electric attack nullifying effect of Lightning Rod as of Generation V, where it became the evolutionary line's Hidden Ability. Despite this, Pikachu's Ability is canonically revealed to be Static in Balance of Power, and has consistently remained so afterward. Prior to becoming an Ability, Lightning Rod appeared as a TCG attack.

Title: Serene Grace (Ability)

Serene Grace (Japanese: てんのめぐみ Heavenly Blessing) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Serene Grace will double the chance of a move having an additional effect. For example, Psychic will have a 20% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense stat instead of its usual 10% chance, and Rock Smash will always lower an opponent's Defense by 1 level, as opposed to having a 50% chance of doing so. The 10% flinch chance due to King's Rock and Razor Fang is unaffected by Serene Grace. Serene Grace boosts the 10% flinch chance due to King's Rock or Razor Fang to 20%. Serene Grace is cumulative with the rainbow produced by using Fire Pledge and Water Pledge on the same turn (causing secondary effect probabilities to be multiplied by 4 if both modifiers are present), except that moves with a chance to flinch will only have that chance doubled once. From Generation V until Pokémon Sword and Shield (except Abilities are unavailable in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!), if the user has Serene Grace and uses Charge Beam while its side is under the effect of the rainbow from the combination of Fire Pledge and Water Pledge, the additional effect chance for Charge Beam will overflow and become 24%. Serene Grace does not increase the probabilities for additional effects of G-Max Replenish or G-Max Snooze. The table below lists the moves affected by Serene Grace, as well as the Pokémon that can have Serene Grace and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Serene Grace. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Serene Grace by Trace or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, if a Pokémon with Serene Grace breaks a rock and finds an item, the game will instead pick the item below it in the game's list, unless it was the 5% item (this effectively means it will never find the most common item). Marley's Sky Forme Shaymin was revealed to have Serene Grace as its Ability.

Title: Swift Swim (Ability)

Swift Swim (Japanese: すいすい Smooth Swim) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. During rain, the Speed stat of Pokémon with this Ability is doubled. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Basculegion's Ability is Rattled instead of Swift Swim. Whenever the Pokémon uses a special move while it is raining, the move is used twice. No additional PP is used during the second usage. If the Pokémon has a speed bonus, only the first move will gain the benefit of Swift Swim. If the special move is part of a linked move, all moves in the link are performed before they are done the second time. In volume 25, Yellow's Omastar, Omny, was revealed to have Swift Swim as his Ability. In volume 40, Pearl's Buizel, Zeller, was revealed to have Swift Swim as his Ability. In volume 42, Silver's Kingdra was revealed to have Swift Swim as her Ability. Emerald's Mantine and N's Tympole were revealed to have Swift Swim as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Ruby's Feebas, Feefee, Wallace's Luvdisc, Elizabeth, Crasher Wake's Floatzel, Clay's Palpitoad, Ghetsis's Seismitoad, and Mr. Briney's Huntail were revealed to have Swift Swim as their Ability. Anorith and Armaldo are the only Pokémon with the Ability Swift Swim that are also weak to Water.

Title: Chlorophyll (Ability)

Chlorophyll (Japanese: ようりょくそ Chlorophyll) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. During harsh sunlight, the Speed stat of Pokémon with this Ability is doubled. In Sunny weather, Pokémon can use an attack twice in one turn, using only one PP. Any linked moves will also attack twice. Solar Beam, being a single-turn move in harsh sunlight, will also be executed twice. In volume 42, Gold's Sunflora, Sunbo, was revealed to have Chlorophyll as her Ability. Blue's Exeggutor, Sapphire's Tropius, Troppy, and White's Deerling, Darlene, were revealed to have Chlorophyll as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Red's Victreebel and Weepinbell, Erika's Vileplume and Bellossom, Gardenia's Cherubi, a Team Plasma Grunt's Maractus, and the Bellsprout belonging to the Sages were revealed to have Chlorophyll as their Ability. Aside from Scovillain, every Pokémon with this Ability is weak to Fire-type attacks, which have increased power under harsh sunlight. Every Pokémon to use this Ability in Pokémon the Series has belonged to a Grass-type Gym Leader.

Title: Illuminate (Ability)

Illuminate (Japanese: はっこう Luminescence) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Starting in Version 2.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Illuminate prevents other Pokémon from lowering the accuracy stat stage of the Pokémon with this Ability, and also ignores the target's evasion stages. Effects that decrease accuracy without using stat stages, such as Wonder Skin and Sand Veil, are unaffected by Illuminate. This Ability can be ignored with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, and Turboblaze. Prior to version 2.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Illuminate had no effect in battle, even after its text update in version 1.3.2. However, this inconsistency could not be seen in-game as no Pokémon with Illuminate had been available in Scarlet and Violet at the time. If a Pokémon with Illuminate is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the wild Pokémon encounter rate increases by 100%. It shares this trait with Arena Trap and No Guard. Illuminate does not affect the Rock Smash encounter rate. Illuminate now increases the Rock Smash encounter rate in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, this Ability only affects the rate at which random encounters happen. Illuminate appears to have no effect on the encounter rate of wild Pokémon. Prior to Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, a Pokémon with Illuminate "blinks" after a turn in which it was struck by a damaging move. The "blink" summons a hostile Pokémon somewhere on the floor. Illuminate will not activate if the floor capacity is reached (15 Pokémon, including unspawned Monster Houses, but not including mission targets or Kecleon). In Gates to Infinity, Illuminate will not activate if an attack deals no damage due to insufficient attack power, and the Pokémon will still visibly blink if the floor limit is reached, unless a Monster House is present. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the Pokémon obtains the Decoy status after using an illuminating move. The Decoy status makes enemies preferentially attack the Pokémon instead of other allies. The table below lists the moves affected by Illuminate, as well as the Pokémon that can have Illuminate and learn those moves. Misty's Starmie and Chinchou and a Team Plasma Grunt's Watchog were revealed to Illuminate as their Ability. Every Pokémon with this Ability can learn the moves Flash and Confuse Ray.

Title: Trace (Ability)

Trace (Japanese: トレース Trace) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Trace copies the Ability of a random adjacent opponent, replacing Trace itself. This is activated when the Pokémon with Trace enters battle or when a Pokémon gains Trace. In Wonder Launcher battles, Trace can be activated by an ally's Ability Urge. Trace can be swapped by Skill Swap. In Generations III and IV, Trace can be copied by Role Play, but In later generations, Trace cannot be copied by Role Play, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Entrainment fails if used by a Pokémon with Trace. It can copy any Ability, but if it copies Trace, it will not activate again. There are now Abilities that cannot be copied by Trace. While a Pokémon with Trace is in battle, if at any time an opponent has an Ability that can be copied by Trace, Trace will activate and replace itself with that Ability. Trace can only activate once while a Pokémon is on the field; even if the Pokémon gains Trace again (e.g. via Skill Swap) after activating it the first time, Trace cannot activate until after it is switched out. In a Double Battle with only one opponent remaining, if a Pokémon with Trace is sent into battle to replace a fainted Pokémon, Trace has a 50% chance to select the non-present opponent and not activate. Once a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.), Trace will activate and copy the Ability of the opponent that is present. When a Pokémon with Trace enters battle, it copies a random adjacent opponent's Ability (replacing itself). If no opponents have Abilities that can be copied by Trace when the Pokémon with Trace enters battle, Trace cannot be activated until it enters battle again. While a Pokémon with Trace is in battle, if at any time an adjacent opponent has an Ability that can be copied by Trace, Trace will activate and replace itself with that Ability. Even if a Pokémon had previously activated Trace, if it gains Trace again (e.g. via Skill Swap), Trace will activate at the first opportunity. Trace cannot copy any of the following Abilities in generations marked with a ✔. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move or regular attack, Trace replaces itself with the Ability of the attacking Pokémon. Trace does not distinguish between foes and allies, and can be activated by beneficial moves such as Safeguard. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Pokémon can have more than one Ability—if a Pokémon has more than one Ability, Trace chooses one at random. The copied Ability lasts until the Pokémon enters a new floor. In Connecting with Gardevoir, Diantha mentioned that her Gardevoir has Trace as its Ability. In volume 23, Blue's Porygon2 was revealed to have Trace as its Ability.

Title: Huge Power (Ability)

Huge Power (Japanese: ちからもち Muscleman) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature Ability of Marill's evolutionary line. Huge Power doubles the Attack stat of the Pokémon with this Ability. Because it is an Attack modifier and not a stat stage change, it will double the user's effective Attack stat when using Foul Play or Body Press. Huge Power also affects self-inflicted confusion damage. Huge Power has a one-in-three chance of boosting a physical move by 50% when such an attack is used. The chance of activating appears to be lower in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. In Pokémon UNITE, Huge Power is Azumarill's Ability. When the user hits only a single opposing Pokémon with a basic attack, a move, or its Unite Move, the hit is guaranteed to be a critical hit. However, when the user hits two or more opposing Pokémon at once with a basic attack, a move, or its Unite Move, the hits are never critical hits. Its Japanese name appears to be a pun, as ちからもち (chikaramochi) is readable as both "muscleman" or "strengthening mochi". This could explain why rabbit-like Pokémon, such as Azumarill and Diggersby have this ability, being a reference to the moon rabbit, which is commonly depicted preparing mochi in Japanese folklore. It could also explain why Mega Mawile has this ability, as its apparent inspiration, the futakuchi-onna is commonly depicted eating mochi.

Title: Poison Point (Ability)

Poison Point (Japanese: どくのトゲ Poison Thorns) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a 1/3 chance that the attacking Pokémon will become poisoned. This Ability cannot poison Poison-type or Steel-type Pokémon. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit has an independent chance to activate this Ability. The chance for Poison Point to poison is lowered to 30%. In volume 24, Green's Nidorina, Nido, was revealed to have Poison Point as her Ability. Red's Nidorino and Giovanni's Nidoqueen and Nidoking were revealed to have Poison Point as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Violet's Clodsire, Gardenia's Roserade, and Burgh's Whirlipede were revealed to have Poison Point as their Ability. The Ability Poison Touch introduced in Generation V can be thought of as having Poison Point's inverse effect. Prior to becoming an Ability, Poison Point appeared as a TCG Attack. Seadra is the only Pokémon that may have the Poison Point Ability without being a Poison-type itself.

Title: Inner Focus (Ability)

Inner Focus (Japanese: せいしんりょく Force of Will) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Inner Focus prevents the Pokémon from flinching. However, Pokémon with this Ability can still flinch to a Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, or Turboblaze. While some descriptions state that the user flinches, Focus Punch failing due to taking damage is not flinching, so the move is unaffected by Inner Focus. If the Pokémon is hit by a move that always causes flinching, the message "<Pokémon>'s Inner Focus prevents flinching!" (Generation III) or "<Pokémon> won't flinch because of its Inner Focus!" (Generation IV) will appear. No message is displayed in later generations. In Generation V and VI, Raikou, Entei, and Suicune have Volt Absorb, Flash Fire, and Water Absorb, respectively, instead of Inner Focus as their Hidden Ability. However, it is impossible to obtain them with their Hidden Abilities in Generations V and VI. In Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie, the rental Glalie that Noland used during his Battle Factory match against Emerald was revealed to have Inner Focus as its Ability by Emerald's Pokédex. Blue's Alakazam, Giovanni's Crobat, and Lysandre's Mienfoo were revealed to have Inner Focus as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Koga's Golbat, Janine's Crobat, Lance's Dragonite, Glacia's Glalie, Maylene's Riolu, and Marshal's Mienshao were revealed to have Inner Focus as their Ability.

Title: Magma Armor (Ability)

Magma Armor (Japanese: マグマのよろい Magma Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Magma Armor prevents the Pokémon from being frozen. A Pokémon with this Ability will be thawed out if it is frozen while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is frozen by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If the Pokémon with this Ability is frozen and is holding an Aspear, Lum, or Pumkin Berry, Magma Armor will cure the Pokémon of freeze before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. If a frozen Pokémon with Magma Armor is sent into battle as one of the lead Pokémon or to replace a fainted Pokémon, or gains Magma Armor due to Trace, it will not be cured of freeze until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). It will be cured of freeze if it is switched in to replace a switched out Pokémon (including if switched in via Baton Pass). If a frozen Pokémon has Magma Armor as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain frozen when switched out. When a frozen Pokémon with Magma Armor enters battle, it will be cured of freeze. If a frozen Pokémon has Magma Armor as its original Ability but not its current Ability, if it is one of the active Pokémon at the end of the battle or switched out, it will be cured of freeze (with no message). If a frozen Pokémon has Magma Armor as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain frozen when switched out. If a frozen Pokémon gains Magma Armor by Evolution or the Ability Capsule, it will not be thawed out until sent into battle. Pokémon with Magma Armor will not be frozen by the Gentleman's Dusclops in the Battle Pike nor the Battle Arcade's game board. From Pokémon Emerald onward, if a Pokémon with Magma Armor is in the party (even if fainted), the number of cycles it takes for all Pokémon Eggs in the party to hatch are halved. This effect does not stack with itself, Flame Body, or Steam Engine; however, it can be stacked with Hatching Power Pass Power, O-Power, or Roto Hatch. Magma Armor prevents the Pokémon from being frozen. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, it also causes any items thrown at the Pokémon to become burned, thereby avoiding taking any damage or effects from the thrown item. Thrown items that miss the Pokémon will not be burned.

Title: Water Veil (Ability)

Water Veil (Japanese: みずのベール Water Veil) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Water Veil prevents the Pokémon from being burned. A Pokémon with this Ability will be cured of burn if it is burned while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is burned by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If a burned Pokémon has Water Veil as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain burned when switched out. If a burned Pokémon with Water Veil is sent into battle as one of the lead Pokémon or to replace a fainted Pokémon, or gains Water Veil due to Trace, it will not be cured of burn until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). It will be cured of burn if it is switched in to replace a switched out Pokémon (including if switched in via Baton Pass). If the Pokémon with this Ability is burned and is holding a Rawst, Lum, or Yago Berry, Water Veil will cure the Pokémon of burn before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. If a burned Pokémon has Water Veil as its original Ability but not its current Ability, then if it is one of the active Pokémon at the end of the battle or if it is switched out, it will be cured of burn (with no message). Thus, there is no way for a burned Pokémon with Water Veil to enter battle. A Pokémon entering battle with Trace that copies Water Veil will now immediately cure itself of an existing burn. If a burned Pokémon has Water Veil as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will now once again remain burned when switched out or when battle ends. Accordingly, a burned Pokémon entering battle with Water Veil will now immediately cure itself. If the Pokémon with this Ability is burned and is holding a Rawst or Lum Berry, the Berry will be eaten and cure the Pokémon of burn before Water Veil has a chance to activate. If a burned Pokémon gains Water Veil by Evolution or the Ability Capsule, it will not be cured of burn until sent into battle. Pokémon with Water Veil will not be burned by the Gentleman's Kirlia or Dusclops in the Battle Pike nor the Battle Arcade's game board. Wallace's Seaking, Charles, is revealed to have Water Veil as his Ability.

Title: Magnet Pull (Ability)

Magnet Pull (Japanese: じりょく Magnetism) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Magnet Pull prevents adjacent Steel-type opponents from fleeing (including Teleport) or switching out as long as the user remains in battle. However, if a Pokémon with Magnet Pull switches in, opponents are not prevented from switching out for that turn. Using Baton Pass, U-turn, Volt Switch, Flip Turn, or Parting Shot will still cause the Pokémon to switch out. Holding a Shed Shell allows the Pokémon to switch out, but not flee or use Teleport. Having the Ability Run Away or holding a Smoke Ball allows the Pokémon to flee or use Teleport, but not switch. If the player does not switch out a fainted Pokémon and instead attempts to flee, they will not be affected by a wild Pokémon with Shadow Tag. Magnet Pull affects allies only in Generation III. Steel-type Pokémon are now unaffected by Magnet Pull if they have Ghost as another type. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Magnet Pull is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), then there is a 50% chance the game will force an encounter with a Steel-type Pokémon, if one is possible. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, if a Pokémon with Magnet Pull breaks a rock, it receives a flat 5% increase in odds of finding an item. In Pokémon Sword and Shield only, the chance is 51% instead. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle, with its former field function effectively being replaced by Meal Powers. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, a Pokémon with Magnet Pull has a 12% chance of immobilizing Steel-type Pokémon that attack it directly, preventing them from moving for a few turns. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Magnet Pull prevents adjacent Steel-type Pokémon from being able to move. However, they are still able to use moves or items. Cyrus's Probopass was revealed to have Magnet Pull as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. In My Pokémon Ranch if the camera is focused on Probopass it will sometimes drop to the ground and pulse, dragging in all nearby Steel-type Pokémon and Miis. Excluding Meltan, all Pokémon species with access to Magnet Pull can also have the Ability Sturdy.

Title: Soundproof (Ability)

Soundproof (Japanese: ぼうおん Soundproof) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Soundproof makes the Pokémon immune to sound-based moves. A sleeping Pokémon with this Ability cannot be woken with a Poké Flute, but the Blue Flute wakes a Pokémon as usual. Pokémon with Soundproof are immune to all sound-based moves, including their own. Pokémon with Soundproof, including inactive Pokémon, are not affected by Heal Bell. A Pokémon with this Ability can still fall asleep during an uproar. Pokémon with Soundproof can now be affected by Heal Bell. A Pokémon with this Ability will not fall asleep during an uproar. Active Pokémon with Soundproof cannot be affected by Heal Bell. (Inactive Pokémon can be affected by Heal Bell even if they have Soundproof.) Pokémon with Soundproof are no longer immune to their own sound-based moves. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, Soundproof blocks the same moves as in core series, except for Uproar. Crystal's Mr. Mime, Mymee, is revealed to have Soundproof as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book.

Title: Rain Dish (Ability)

Rain Dish (Japanese: あめうけざら Rain Saucer) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Lotad's evolutionary line. During rain, a Pokémon with Rain Dish will regain 1/16 of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. Rain Dish increases the rate of HP recovery per turn by 4-times or 2-times when the weather is rain.

Title: Sand Stream (Ability)

Sand Stream (Japanese: すなおこし Sand Raising) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature Ability of Tyranitar. Sand Stream summons a sandstorm in battle as soon as a Pokémon with Sand Stream enters the battle. Its effects almost are the same as Sandstorm's; the only difference is that instead of lasting for five turns, it lasts for the whole battle or until a different weather condition replaces it. If a Pokémon with Sand Stream is sent out in the same turn as another Pokémon whose Ability causes a different weather condition, the slower Pokémon's Ability will override the faster Pokémon's Ability. The sandstorm will now last only for five turns. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Smooth Rock. If heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are present, Sand Stream will fail to activate. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness, Sand Stream changes the weather to Sandstorm upon entering a floor, and then every subsequent 36 turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Sand Stream changes the weather to sandstorm upon entering a floor. Sandstorm lasts a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66) before clearing. After the weather has cleared, Sand Stream will again activate after waiting a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66). A Gentleman's Hippopotas is revealed to have Sand Stream as his Ability.

Title: Pressure (Ability)

Pressure (Japanese: プレッシャー Pressure) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When another Pokémon (including an ally) uses a move targeting a Pokémon that has Pressure, when PP is deducted from that move, one more PP than usual is deducted. If multiple targets have Pressure, each one results in additional PP being deducted. Pressure deducts additional PP whenever PP would normally be deducted; this means that it still applies even if the move misses, has multiple targets, or is rendered ineffective due to a target's typing or use of Protect or Detect. Pressure applies to moves that target the entire field, such as Rain Dance. Pressure applies to Curse when used by non-Ghost-type Pokémon, but only when used by a wild Pokémon or in-game Trainer. If a Pokémon that has Pressure is sent into battle, a message "<name> is exerting its Pressure!" is now displayed. Pressure increases the PP consumption of an opponent's Imprison and Snatch even though those are self-targeting moves; in Snatch's case the additional PP is consumed even if Snatch fails or snatches a move from a Pokémon other than the one with Pressure. It increases the PP consumption of Spikes, Stealth Rock, and Toxic Spikes, but not Sticky Web. If a Pokémon uses Tera Blast while one of its opponents has Pressure, the additional PP will be deducted even if the Pressure Pokémon is not the move's target. Wild Pokémon's calls for help are more likely to be answered when facing a Pokémon with Pressure. It shares this effect with Intimidate and Unnerve. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Pressure is in the first slot in the party (even if fainted), there's a 50% chance that a Pokémon will be forced to the upper bound of their encounter level range. It shares this effect with Hustle and Vital Spirit. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Pressure appears to have no effect on the level range of wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Pressure appears to have no effect on the level range of wild Pokémon. When a Pokémon with Pressure is targeted by a foe's move, one additional PP is deducted upon execution. In Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, multiple instances of Pressure now stack on each other. (e.g: Hitting two enemies with the Ability at the same time will cause the user to lose 3 PP.) Mewtwo from Genesect and the Legend Awakened was confirmed to have Pressure as its Ability on the official Pokémon website, even though it was never demonstrated or mentioned on-screen. In Storming the Forretress, Red's Poliwrath, Poli, gained Pressure when Organism No. 2 used Skill Swap on him. In Volume 42, Silver's Weavile was revealed to have Pressure as his Ability. Emerald's Dusclops was revealed to have Pressure as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Green's Articuno, Zapdos, and Moltres, Blaine's Mewtwo, a Roughneck's Vespiquen, the Tower duo, the Legendary beasts, the Pokémon of myth, and Zinzolin's Kyurem were revealed to have Pressure as their Ability. Pressure is the most common Ability amongst Legendary Pokémon.

Title: Thick Fat (Ability)

Thick Fat (Japanese: あついしぼう Thick Fat) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. If a Pokémon with Thick Fat is attacked by an Ice- or Fire-type move, the opponent's Attack or Special Attack is reduced by 50% during damage calculation, effectively halving the damage the Pokémon takes. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, Thick Fat reduces the damage taken from Fire- and Ice-type moves by 50%. In Gates to Infinity and Super Mystery Dungeon, Thick Fat reduces the damage from Fire- and Ice-type moves by 30%. In Pokémon UNITE, Thick Fat is Mamoswine's Ability. When the user deals damage, its Defense and Special Defense are increased for a short time, up to three times. When this Pokémon uses Ice Shard, Icicle Crash or Ice Fang, its next basic attack becomes a boosted attack. In addition, if any of these moves creates a freezing area of effect inside an ally goal zone, it decreases the goal-scoring speed of opposing Pokémon inside that goal zone. In volume 40, Diamond's Mamoswine, Moo, was revealed to have Thick Fat as his Ability. Emerald's Snorlax is revealed to have Thick Fat as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Thick Fat debuted as an Ability in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Hariyama from the Furious Fists expansion. The Pokémon with this Ability takes 30 less damage from attacks from the opponent's Fire-type or Water-type Pokémon (after applying Weakness and Resistance). The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Thick Fat Ability.

Title: Early Bird (Ability)

Early Bird (Japanese: はやおき Early Rising) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Early Bird halves the sleep duration. When the Pokémon is put to sleep, the number of turns it will remain asleep is preset (the range depends on the generation). This number of turns is halved for a Pokémon with Early Bird, rounded down if it is odd. So if only 1 turn is preset, it is rounded down to 0, causing the Pokémon to wake up the next time it moves. This also applies to the self-induced sleep from Rest, reducing its length from 2 turns to 1 turn asleep (not counting the turn in which Rest is used). Prior to Generation IX, Shiftry had Early Bird instead of Wind Rider. In volume 25, Yellow's Dodrio, Dody, was revealed to have Early Bird as his Ability. In volume 42, Crystal's Xatu, Natee, was revealed to have Early Bird as her Ability. Violet's Dolliv was revealed to have Early Bird as her Ability.

Title: Flame Body (Ability)

Flame Body (Japanese: ほのおのからだ Flame Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a 1/3 chance that the attacking Pokémon will become burned. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit has an independent chance to activate this Ability. The chance for Flame Body to burn is lowered to 30%. From Pokémon Emerald onward, if a Pokémon with Flame Body is in the party (even if fainted), the number of cycles it takes for all Pokémon Eggs in the party to hatch are halved. This effect does not stack with itself, Magma Armor, or Steam Engine; however, it can be stacked with Hatching Power Pass Power, O-Power, or Roto Hatch. When the Pokémon is hit by a move that makes contact, there is a chance that the attacking Pokémon will become burned. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, Flame Body also causes any items thrown at the Pokémon to become burned, nullifying the effects of the thrown item. Thrown items that miss the Pokémon will not be burned. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Fletchinder, Fletchy, was revealed to have Flame Body as her Ability. Flint's Magmortar, Ghetsis's Volcarona, and Magby used by Team Galactic Grunts were revealed to have Flame Body as their Ability.

Title: Run Away (Ability)

Run Away (Japanese: にげあし Run Away) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. A Pokémon with this Ability can always flee and use Teleport successfully, regardless of trapping moves and Abilities (including Ingrain and binding moves). This Ability has no effect on switching out. Run Away does not guarantee escape in the Battle Pyramid, but if a Pokémon with this Ability successfully flees, this escape will be credited to Run Away. In Generations III and IV, when the player's Pokémon with Run Away faints in a wild battle, if the player attempts to flee instead of sending out another Pokémon, they will escape without fail. From Generation V onward, escape is no longer guaranteed in this situation. Until Generation V, when activated, the message "<Pokémon name> escaped using Run Away!" will appear. From Generation V onward, a banner with "Run Away" displays instead. Prior to Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, a Pokémon with Run Away will become Terrified and run from all Pokémon when its HP is down below 50%. Leaders are unaffected. In the Explorers series and Gates to Infinity, Run Away also protects against becoming Stuck by moves like Mean Look, or Abilities like Shadow Tag, when the HP drops below 50%. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Run Away simply prevents the Pokémon from getting stuck, regardless of the Pokémon's HP. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Crystal's Rapidash was revealed to have Run Away as his Ability by Emerald's Pokédex. In volume 24, Green's Snubbull was revealed to have Run Away as his Ability. In volume 40, Platinum's Pachirisu was revealed to have Run Away as her Ability. Ruby's Poochyena, Nana, and Professor Elm's Sentret were revealed to have Run Away as their Ability. Because Ghost-type Pokémon are guaranteed to flee from any wild battle regardless of Speed, Gimmighoul's Run Away Ability is redundant unless its type is changed via a type altering move like Soak. If the Nihilego encountered at Aether Paradise has its Ability changed to Run Away, it will be able to flee on turn 5 of the battle even if it is trapped. If this happens, the text stating "You got away safely!" will still display, despite Nihilego being the one fleeing and not the player.

Title: Keen Eye (Ability)

Keen Eye (Japanese: するどいめ Keen Eye) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Keen Eye prevents other Pokémon from lowering the accuracy stat stage of the Pokémon with this Ability. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e., resetting) positive stat changes. Effects that decrease accuracy without using stat stages, such as Wonder Skin and Sand Veil, are unaffected by Keen Eye. This Ability can be ignored with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, and Turboblaze. Keen Eye now also ignores the target's evasion stages. From Pokémon Emerald onward, if a Pokémon with Keen Eye is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 50% chance it will prevent a random wild encounter that would have occurred if the wild Pokémon would be at least 5 levels lower than the Pokémon with Keen Eye. It shares this effect with Intimidate. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, if a Pokémon with Keen Eye breaks a rock, it receives a flat 5% increase in odds of finding an item. Keen Eye appears to have no effect outside of battle. Keen Eye prevents accuracy reduction. It does not protect against the Whiffer status. Blue's Pidgeot was revealed to have Keen Eye as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Falkner's Skarmory, Skyla's Swanna, three Patrat belonging to the BW Agency, and Professor Oak's Fearow were revealed to have Keen Eye as their Ability. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder

Title: Hyper Cutter (Ability)

Hyper Cutter (Japanese: かいりきバサミ Superpowerful Claws) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Hyper Cutter prevents other Pokémon from lowering the Attack stat stage of the Pokémon with this Ability. It does not prevent the Pokémon with this Ability from lowering its own Attack, such as by using Superpower. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e., resetting) positive stat changes. Effects that decrease Attack without using stat stages, such as Power Swap, Heart Swap, and Power Split, are unaffected by Hyper Cutter. This Ability can be ignored with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, and Turboblaze. In Pokémon Emerald, if a Pokémon with Hyper Cutter uses Cut in the overworld, it will cut down all tall grass within a two-square radius of the player's position, as opposed to a one-square radius without this Ability. Hyper Cutter has no effect outside of battle due to the removal of the ability to cut tall grass. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, the rental Pinsir that Emerald used during his Battle Factory match against Noland was revealed to have Hyper Cutter as her Ability by Emerald's Pokédex. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, X's Pinsir, Rute, was revealed to have Hyper Cutter as its Ability. Blake's Gliscor, Glisott, is revealed to have Hyper Cutter as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book.

Title: Pickup (Ability)

Pickup (Japanese: ものひろい Pickup) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. At the end of the turn in which another Pokémon used a one-time-use item (including throwing an item with Fling or using Natural Gift), a Pokémon with Pickup will collect the item if they are not holding anything. If more than one Pokémon has Pickup or Harvest, the faster Pokémon will restore an item first. If multiple items can be collected, the Pokémon will collect the item most recently consumed. A single Pokémon's Pickup will not activate more than once per turn. Pickup cannot collect an item if the Pokémon that consumed the item is no longer on the field at the end of the turn, or if the item has already been recovered (such as with Recycle, another Pokémon's Pickup, or Harvest). Pickup cannot collect an item that a Pokémon consumed before switching out, even if it switched back in again before the end of the turn. Pickup cannot collect items that have been destroyed with Incinerate, eaten with Bug Bite or Pluck, or knocked off with Knock Off. A popped Air Balloon cannot be collected. A Pokémon may only have one consumed item at a time; if a Pokémon consumes an item, then obtains another item and consumes it, the original consumed item cannot be collected, even if the second item is collected or restored then swapped away. If the Pokémon obtains another item after consuming an item, Pickup can still collect the old item as long as the Pokémon does not consume the new one. A Pokémon with Pickup recovers its consumed held item at the end of the turn in a battle against a wild Pokémon. After winning a battle, any Pokémon in the player's party that has this Ability and is not already holding an item has a 10% chance of creating a held item for itself, even if it did not participate in the battle and/or cannot battle. In Generation VIII, Pokémon with this Ability can find items even in the Battle Tower. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the Ability focuses on Berries, which are not as readily available in Kanto and the Sevii Islands as they are in Hoenn. In Pokémon Emerald, the Ability was changed to be affected by the Ability user's level. In addition, the Battle Pyramid has a separate list of items that can be received; this table, however, is instead based on the number of floors/rounds the player has completed inside the Pyramid. The Pickup table and the item balls on the ground share this same pool of items. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the same table as Pokémon Emerald Version is used, with Escape Rope and Repel substituted with Burn Heal and Paralyze Heal respectively. After being released from a Poké Ball, Munchlax walks around and uses Pickup to eat items on the stage. However, it will not eat a living item (such as a Mr. Saturn), an Assist Trophy, a Poké Ball, a Smash Ball, or collectibles (such as CDs, Trophies, or Stickers). Each time the player enters a floor, a Pokémon with Pickup will have a small chance of finding an item that can appear on that floor (other than Poké) as long as it is not holding an item. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Pickup will not activate prior to obtaining the Treasure Bag. In Rescue Team DX, it can find items even when it is holding something, as the effect has been revised to put items found using the Ability into the Toolbox. If the Toolbox is full, the item found is placed on the floor instead. Pickup works for Makuhita Dojo, even though items do not spawn on the ground. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, the rental Linoone that Emerald used during his Battle Factory match against Noland was revealed to have Pickup as his Ability by Emerald's Pokédex. Lillipup is the only Pokémon in the Unova Pokédex with the Pickup Ability. The majority of Pokémon that can have Pickup lose it upon evolving.

Title: Truant (Ability)

Truant (Japanese: なまけ Lazy) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V and in Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Slakoth and Slaking. Every second turn, a Pokémon with Truant cannot use a move due to loafing around, such that the Pokémon can move on its first turn but not its second turn. Switching out or gaining the Ability Truant resets the turn count for Truant. Using an item does not count as a turn for the purposes of Truant. In Generation V, Truant is reset by sleep and a Pokémon with Truant will always be able to attack on the turn it wakes up. In Generation III, using a healing item counts as a turn for Truant. Moves with a charging turn, such as Fly, will not work (unless the user is holding a Power Herb), because the turn in which the move would be executed is the same turn in which the Pokémon will be truant. If a Pokémon with Truant uses a move that forces it to recharge next turn (such as Hyper Beam), then it will loaf around and recharge during the same turn. Because of the recharge, this Pokémon will be unable to use items or switch out on this turn. If a Pokémon gains Truant after it calls upon Mega Evolution, Ultra Burst, or Dynamax at the beginning of a turn, but before it moves that turn, Truant will activate on its first attempt to move. Truant cannot be overwritten by Simple Beam, Worry Seed, or Entrainment, but it can be overwritten by Skill Swap, Role Play, Doodle, or Mummy, or disabled with Gastro Acid or Neutralizing Gas. If a Pokémon with Truant uses a move and is then Instructed to use the move again, the Pokémon will loaf around instead of executing that move. Then, in the next turn, the Pokémon with Truant will be able to use a move normally. If a Pokémon with Truant is sent out following an ally Pokémon fainting to end-of-turn damage, Truant will activate on its first attempt to move. Encore will force a Pokémon with Truant to be locked into using the last move used. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when a Pokémon with this Ability uses a move or a Wonder Orb, the Pokémon gains the Paused status which prevents the Pokémon from taking any action the next turn. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Truant instead causes the truant status condition for one turn. Unlike the previous Paused status, the truant status only prevents the Pokémon from using moves and allows the use of items. Truant additionally can inflict the Yawning status condition on all surrounding enemies when the Pokémon with the Ability Truant is asleep. The Truant Wand allows the user to change any Pokémon's Ability to Truant, including bosses. In Rayquaza Redemption I, Norman's Spinda gained Truant by using Skill Swap on his Slaking. His two Slakoth also have the Ability. The rental Slaking that Emerald used during his Battle Factory challenge was revealed to have Truant as its Ability.

Title: Hustle (Ability)

Hustle (Japanese: はりきり Enthusiasm) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Hustle increases the user's Attack stat by 50%, but lowers the accuracy of the user's physical moves by 20% (approximated as a multiplier of 3277/4096 from Generation V onwards). OHKO moves and special moves are unaffected by Hustle. In addition to lowering the accuracy of the user's physical moves, Hustle lowers the accuracy of status moves with types corresponding to physical moves. The type of damage dealt by Hidden Power determines whether its accuracy is affected by Hustle. Status moves are no longer affected by Hustle, regardless of their type. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Hustle is in the first slot in the party (even if fainted), there's a 50% chance that a Pokémon will be forced to the upper bound of their encounter level range. It shares this effect with Pressure and Vital Spirit. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Hustle appears to have no effect on the level range of wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Hustle appears to have no effect on the level range of wild Pokémon. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Hustle increases the power of physical moves by 50%, but lowers the user's accuracy by two stages. In volume 42, Gold's Togepi, Togebo, was revealed to have Hustle as his Ability.

Title: Cute Charm (Ability)

Cute Charm (Japanese: メロメロボディ Mad Love Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact from a Pokémon of the opposite gender, there is a 1/3 chance that the attacking Pokémon will become infatuated. If either Pokémon is a gender-unknown Pokémon (such as Magnemite), this Ability will not activate. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit has an independent chance to activate this Ability. The chance for Cute Charm to infatuate is lowered to 30%. Unlike in Max Raid Battles from Generation VIII, Cute Charm does not affect opponents in Tera Raid Battles regardless of their gender, since Tera Raid Battle opponents are immune to infatuation. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Cute Charm is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 66.7% chance that the game will force an encountered Pokémon to be the opposite gender to the Pokémon with Cute Charm if it can be that gender. This does not affect a swarming Pokémon species (except in Generation IV) or Pokémon found in Hidden Grottoes. In Generation IV only, when Cute Charm forces a Pokémon to be a specific gender, it does so by setting its personality value to one out of 25 possible values that correspond to the forced gender (one value per nature). The set of possible values depends on the gender of the Pokémon with Cute Charm, and, if the Pokémon with Cute Charm is female, the wild Pokémon's gender ratio. This has significant consequences for properties determined by personality value. As a result, when the encountered species can be affected by Cute Charm (i.e., when it is not a male-only, female-only, or gender-unknown species), the chances of encountering a Shiny Pokémon differ from the usual 1/8192, depending on how many of the 25 possible values forced by Cute Charm result in a Shiny Pokémon (in conjunction with the Trainer ID number and secret ID number): they may be as low as 1/24576 (if none of the 25 values forced by Cute Charm result in Shiny Pokémon, so the Pokémon can only be Shiny if Cute Charm fails), or as high as 21.34% (if 8 out of the 25 values forced by Cute Charm result in Shiny Pokémon). Also, the lower the difference between the Trainer ID number and secret ID number, the higher the Shiny encounter chances. Additionally, Spinda whose gender has been forced by Cute Charm in Generation IV only have one of 50 patterns (25 for male, 25 for female). In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the chance is 66% instead. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Incarnate Forme Enamorus's Ability is Healer instead of Cute Charm. In Pokémon UNITE, Cute Charm is Wigglytuff's Ability. When hit by an enemy attack at close range, it makes that enemy infatuated for a short time. Infatuated enemies approach the user against their will. This Ability goes on a 9s cooldown when triggered. In volume 24, Green's Wigglytuff, Jiggly, and Clefable, Clefy, were revealed to have Cute Charm as their Ability. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Sylveon, Veevee, was revealed to have Cute Charm as her Ability. Green's Jigglypuff, Ririri, was revealed to have Cute Charm as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Whitney's Igglybuff, Buff Buff, and Cleffa, Fafa, were revealed to have Cute Charm as their Ability. In Generation IV, if Cute Charm is active and none of the 25 personality values forced by Cute Charm result in shiny Pokémon, the chance of encountering a shiny Pokémon drops to 1/24576, which is the lowest non-zero shiny chance for wild Pokémon in any core series game.

Title: Plus (Ability)

Plus (Japanese: プラス Plus) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Plusle. Plus powers up with Minus. When a Pokémon with Plus enters into a Double Battle with a Pokémon with the Ability Minus, the user's Special Attack stat is increased by 50%. When a Pokémon with Plus enters a battle and has an ally with Plus or Minus, the Special Attack stat of the Pokémon with Plus is increased by 50%. The move Magnetic Flux raises the Defense and Special Defense of allied Pokémon with Plus or Minus by 1 stage, while the move Gear Up raises the Attack and Special Attack of allied Pokémon with Plus or Minus by 1 stage. A Pokémon with this Ability will receive a 50% bonus to Special Attack when using a special move if an allied Pokémon with the Ability Minus is nearby. Since Gates to Infinity, the Ability also activates if an allied Pokémon with the Ability Plus is in the same room. Ingo's Klinklang was revealed to have Plus as its Ability.

Title: Minus (Ability)

Minus (Japanese: マイナス Minus) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Minun. Minus powers up with Plus. When a Pokémon with Minus enters into a Double Battle with a Pokémon with the Ability Plus, the user's Special Attack stat is increased by 50%. When a Pokémon with Minus enters a battle and has an ally with Plus or Minus, the Special Attack stat of the Pokémon with Minus is increased by 50%. The move Magnetic Flux raises the Defense and Special Defense of allied Pokémon with Plus or Minus by 1 stage, while the move Gear Up raises the Attack and Special Attack of allied Pokémon with Plus or Minus by 1 stage. A Pokémon with this Ability will receive a 50% bonus to Special Attack when using a special move if an allied Pokémon with the Ability Plus is nearby. Since Gates to Infinity, the Ability also activates if an allied Pokémon with the Ability Minus is in the same room.

Title: Forecast (Ability)

Forecast (Japanese: てんきや Temperamental) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. It is the signature Ability of Castform. Depending on the weather, Forecast will change Castform's form, which also changes its type. Castform changes as follows: During harsh sunlight or extremely harsh sunlight, it will become Sunny Form, which is Fire-type. During hail, it will become Snowy Form, which is Ice-type. During rain or heavy rain, it will become Rainy Form, which is Water-type. During a sandstorm, fog, strong winds, a shadowy aura, or clear weather, it will revert to its normal form, which is Normal-type. It will also revert to its normal form if a Pokémon on the field has Cloud Nine or Air Lock. This Ability has no effect on Pokémon other than Castform. Forecast does not change Castform's form until after Stealth Rock deals damage. If a Pokémon transforms into Castform with Forecast, it will change forms with the weather just like Castform. If Castform or a Pokémon transformed into Castform loses Forecast, it will be stuck in its current form. When it regains Forecast, it will change to the form matching the current weather, even if it is already in the correct form (which resets its type if it had changed due to an effect like Color Change). If Forecast is suppressed with Gastro Acid, it will be stuck in its current form. If a Pokémon transforms into Castform, the Pokémon will remain in the same form as the target Castform, regardless of the weather. If Castform loses Forecast or Forecast is suppressed with Gastro Acid, it will revert to its normal form and not be able to change form. If Castform regains Forecast, it will change form to match the current weather, unless it would be in its normal form in the current weather. Role Play fails if the target has the Ability Forecast. Entrainment fails if the user has the Ability Forecast. Forecast cannot be copied by Power of Alchemy or Receiver, nor can it be traded by Wandering Spirit. Forecast will turn Castform into an Ice-type in snow. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, it will also turn Castform into a Water-type during foggy weather. In Red and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time and Darkness and Sky, the type-changing effect of Forecast works on Pokémon other than Castform (such as if copied by Role Play or Trace), though the form-changing effect does not. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, while Castform transforms, a Trainer will play the animation used if one of their Pokémon faints.

Title: Sticky Hold (Ability)

Sticky Hold (Japanese: ねんちゃく Adhesion) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. This Ability prevents the held item of the Pokémon with this Ability from being taken by Covet, Thief, Pickpocket, or Magician; eaten by Bug Bite or Pluck; destroyed by Incinerate or Corrosive Gas; or removed by Knock Off. It also prevents the Pokémon from being affected by other Pokémon's Trick or Switcheroo (even if it has no held item), but not its own. Sticky Hold does not prevent a Sticky Barb being transferred by its own effect. Sticky Hold can be ignored by Mold Breaker, Turboblaze, and Teravolt. Even if the Pokémon is knocked out by the attack, Sticky Hold protects the held item. If the Pokémon is knocked out by the attack, Sticky Hold does not protect the held item. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Sticky Hold is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), bites will occur more often while fishing. Suction Cups has the same effect. Due to an error in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, Sticky Hold has no effect outside of battle. This behavior is kept in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, where the Ability also has no effect outside of battle. Alder's Accelgor was revealed to have Sticky Hold as its Ability.

Title: Shed Skin (Ability)

Shed Skin (Japanese: だっぴ Shed Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. At the end of each turn, Shed Skin has a chance of curing the Pokémon of a non-volatile status condition. If it cures a status condition, it does so before burn or poison damage is dealt on that turn. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire only, due to an oversight, if a Pokémon cures itself of sleep with Shed Skin, it will not be cured of Nightmare even after waking up. Yellow's Metapod, Kitty, Bugsy's Kakuna, Lance's Dragonair and Pupitar, and Paka's Burmy were revealed to have Shed Skin as their Ability. Prior to becoming an Ability, Shed Skin appeared as a TCG Attack.

Title: Guts (Ability)

Guts (Japanese: こんじょう Guts) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. While a Pokémon with this Ability has a status condition (non-volatile status), its Attack is increased by 50%. Additionally, a Pokémon with this Ability does not lose Attack due to burn. The Attack boost from Guts does not activate if a Pokémon is frozen and uses a move that thaws it out, such as Flame Wheel or Flare Blitz. When the Pokémon is afflicted with a bad status condition, the Pokémon's Attack increases by 2 times or 1.5 times. In Pokémon UNITE, Guts is Machamp's Ability that increases its Attack stat by 10% when afflicted by a status condition. In volume 23, Blue's Machamp was revealed to have Guts as his Ability. In volume 25, Yellow's Raticate, Ratty, was revealed to have Guts as his Ability. Silver's Ursaring and Marshal's Throh were revealed to have Guts as their Ability.

Title: Marvel Scale (Ability)

Marvel Scale (Japanese: ふしぎなうろこ Marvelous Scale) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Milotic. While the Pokémon with this Ability has a non-volatile status condition, its Defense is increased by 50%. A Pokémon with a status problem with this Ability will have a 50% defense bonus when hit by a physical attack. In Pokémon UNITE, Marvel Scale is Dratini's and Dragonair's Ability. It increases the user's Defense by 100 when afflicted by a status condition. Upon evolving into Dragonite, it becomes Multiscale. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Milotic was revealed to have Marvel Scale as her Ability by Emerald's Pokédex.

Title: Liquid Ooze (Ability)

Liquid Ooze (Japanese: ヘドロえき Oozing Liquid) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Liquid Ooze causes HP-draining moves used on the Pokémon with this Ability to damage their user instead of healing them. If a Pokémon with Liquid Ooze is hit by a draining move such as Giga Drain or Leech Life (including the status move Strength Sap), or takes damage from the effect of Leech Seed, the amount of HP that would be recovered by the opponent is dealt as damage instead (after applying the effect of Big Root). The damage dealt by the move is not affected. Prior to Generation V, Liquid Ooze did not affect Dream Eater. Even if the user of the HP-draining move cannot heal from its effect due to having full HP or the effect of Heal Block, it will still take damage. If the user of an HP-draining move were to faint due to Liquid Ooze on the same turn as the victim of the move, then the user faints before the victim. This means that the user's team loses the battle if both teams had their final Pokémon sent out. If the recipient of Leech Seed's effect were to faint due to Liquid Ooze on the same turn as the victim of Leech Seed, then the victim faints before the recipient. This means that the victim's team loses the battle if both teams had their final Pokémon sent out.

Title: Overgrow (Ability)

Overgrow (Japanese: しんりょく Fresh Greenery) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. All Grass-type first partner Pokémon have this Ability. When a Pokémon with Overgrow uses a Grass-type move, the move's power will be increased by 50% if the user has less than or equal to ⅓ of its maximum HP remaining. Instead of boosting Grass-type moves' power, Overgrow now technically boosts the Pokémon's Attack or Special Attack by 50% during damage calculation if a Grass-type move is being used, resulting in effectively the same effect. When the Pokémon's HP falls below 25%, the power of Grass-type moves increases by 2-times or 1.5-times In Pokémon Conquest, Overgrow will increase user's Attack if the Pokémon using it is below ⅓ of its HP. In Pokémon UNITE, Overgrow is Venusaur's Ability. When at 30% HP or less, it increases all damage dealt by 20%. In volume 23, Red's Venusaur, Saur, was revealed to have Overgrow as his Ability. In volume 40, Diamond's Torterra, Tru, was revealed to have Overgrow as his Ability. In volume 42, Crystal's Meganium, Megaree, was revealed to have Overgrow as his Ability. In Volume 4 of the Scarlet & Violet arc, Scarlet's Floragato was revealed to have Overgrow as her Ability. Emerald's Sceptile, X's Chesnaught, Marisso, and Moon's Rowlet were revealed to have Overgrow as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Henry's Thwackey, Twiggy, and Cheren's Snivy were revealed to have Overgrow as their Ability.

Title: Blaze (Ability)

Blaze redirects here. For the location in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, see Mt. Blaze. Blaze (Japanese: もうか Raging Flames) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. All Fire-type first partner Pokémon have this Ability. When a Pokémon with Blaze uses a Fire-type move, the move's power will be increased by 50% if the user has less than or equal to ⅓ of its maximum HP remaining. Instead of boosting Fire-type moves' power, Blaze now technically boosts the Pokémon's Attack or Special Attack by 50% during damage calculation if a Fire-type move is being used, resulting in effectively the same potency. When the Pokémon's HP falls below 25%, the power of Fire-type moves increases by 2-times or 1.5-times. Blaze will increase the user's Attack if the Pokémon using it is below ⅓ of its HP. In Pokémon UNITE, Blaze is Charizard and Cinderace's Ability that activates when the user is at half or less HP. Charizard's increases critical hit rate by 20%, while Cinderace's increases critical-hit rate by 10% and basic attack speed by 20% for a short time; additionally when hitting an enemy with a basic attack or move, a cinder is placed on that enemy. In volume 23, Blue's Charizard was revealed to have Blaze as his Ability. In volume 40, Pearl's Infernape, Chimler, was revealed to have Blaze as his Ability. In volume 42, Gold's Typhlosion, Exbo, was revealed to have Blaze as his Ability. In volume 44, Black's Tepig, Tep, was revealed to have Blaze as his Ability. In volume 44, White's Tepig, Gigi, was revealed to have Blaze as her Ability. Sapphire's Blaziken, Chic, X's Charizard, Salamè, and Sun's Incineroar, Dollar, were revealed to have Blaze as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data book. Casey's Cinderace, Bit, and Violet's Crocalor were revealed to have Blaze as their Ability.

Title: Torrent (Ability)

Torrent (Japanese: げきりゅう Raging Rapids) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. All Water-type first partner Pokémon have this Ability. When a Pokémon with Torrent uses a Water-type move, the move's power will be increased by 50% if the user has less than or equal to ⅓ of its maximum HP remaining. Instead of boosting Water-type moves' power, Torrent now technically boosts the Pokémon's Attack or Special Attack by 50% during damage calculation if a Water-type move is being used, resulting in effectively the same effect. When the Pokémon's HP falls below 25%, the power of Water-type moves increases by 2-times or 1.5-times. In Pokémon Conquest, Torrent will increase user's Attack if the Pokémon using it is below ⅓ of its HP. In Pokémon UNITE, Torrent is Blastoise's and Greninja's Ability that activates when the user is at half or less HP. Blastoise's increases Attack and Sp. Attack by 20%, while Greninja's increases Attack by 5% and movement speed by 12%. In volume 24, Green's Blastoise, Blasty, was revealed to have Torrent as his Ability. In volume 40, Platinum's Empoleon was revealed to have Torrent as her Ability. In volume 42, Silver's Feraligatr was revealed to have Torrent as his Ability. Ruby's Swampert, Mumu, and Blake's Dewott were revealed to have Torrent as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data book. Bianca's Oshawott and Cedric Juniper's Samurott were revealed to have Torrent as their Ability. Torrent is the only variation of the Overgrow Ability that none of Ash's Pokémon have activated in Pokémon the Series. It is also the only variation of Overgrow that has not been activated by a main character's Pokémon.

Title: Swarm (Ability)

Swarm (Japanese: むしのしらせ Bug Notification) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. When a Pokémon with Swarm uses a Bug-type move, the move's power will be increased by 50% if the user has less than or equal to ⅓ of its maximum HP remaining. Instead of boosting Bug-type moves' power, Swarm now technically boosts the Pokémon's Attack or Special Attack by 50% during damage calculation if a Bug-type move is being used, resulting in effectively the same effect. In Pokémon Emerald, if the first Pokémon in the player's party has this Ability, the frequency of cries of wild Pokémon that are heard in the overworld is increased. Despite the fact this mechanic also exists in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, Swarm has no overworld effect there. If a Pokémon with Swarm is below 25% of its HP, the power of Bug-type moves increases by 2-times or 1.5-times. In Pokémon Conquest, Swarm will increase user's Attack if the Pokémon using it is below ⅓ of its HP. In A Connoisseur's Revenge!, Burgundy told Ash that his Leavanny, who at the time was a Sewaddle, had Swarm as his Ability. However, he was never seen using it as a Sewaddle. In volume 23, Blue's Scizor was revealed to have Swarm as his Ability. Moon's Grubbin and Giovanni's Beedrill were revealed to have Swarm as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Violet's Lokix, Winona's Beautifly, Alder's Escavalier, Emmet's Durant, a Roughneck's Mothim, and a Scolipede controlled by Colress were revealed to have Swarm as their Ability. The Japanese name for Swarm, むしのしらせ Mushi no Shirase (Bug Notification), is a Japansese expression that translates to "foreboding; premonition; gut feeling". This is reflected by the way the Ability works, as the Pokémon is preparing itself for a tough fight by making itself stronger. Swarm was the first Ability in animation to be a Pokémon's confirmed Ability without getting activated.

Title: Rock Head (Ability)

If you were looking for the Rock Head Pokémon, see Bagon. Rock Head (Japanese: いしあたま Rock Head) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. A Pokémon with Rock Head will not take recoil damage, except when using Struggle, Shadow Rush, or Shadow End. If a Pokémon with Rock Head uses a contact move with recoil on a target with either Lingering Aroma or Mummy, causing Rock Head to be replaced by the target's Ability, then the user will take recoil damage from this move. Rock Head does not affect other kinds of damage, such as crash damage, damage from a Life Orb, or damage from a Jaboca or Rowap Berry. Rock Head does not prevent the user from fainting from using moves that cause the user to faint. It also does not prevent the user from taking damage when using Steel Beam or Mind Blown. The table below lists the moves affected by Rock Head, as well as the Pokémon that can have Rock Head and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Rock Head. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Rock Head by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Black and White, Blue-Striped Basculin have Reckless as their second standard Ability; however, a Blue-Striped Basculin with Rock Head can be obtained from an in-game trade in White. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, wild Blue-Striped Basculin have Rock Head as their second standard Ability, but Blue-Striped Basculin bred in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 have Reckless as their second standard Ability. In Generation VI, Blue-Striped Basculin have Rock Head as their second standard Ability, and Blue-Striped Basculin with Reckless transferred to Pokémon Bank have their Ability changed to Rock Head. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Growlithe's and Arcanine's Hidden Ability is Justified instead of Rock Head. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Rhyhorn, Rhyrhy, was revealed to have Rock Head as his Ability. Sapphire's Relicanth, Relly, Emerald's Sudowoodo, and Giovanni's Rhyhorn, Rhydon, and Aggron were revealed to have Rock Head as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Brock's Onix, Drake's Shelgon, and a Team Magma Grunt's Bagon were revealed to have Rock Head as their Ability.

Title: Drought (Ability)

Drought (Japanese: ひでり Drought) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Groudon. Drought summons harsh sunlight in battle as soon as a Pokémon with Drought enters the battle. Its effects are the same as the move Sunny Day, but instead of lasting for a limited amount of turns, it lasts for the whole battle (unless it is replaced by another weather condition). If a Pokémon with Drought is sent out in the same turn as another Pokémon whose Ability affects the weather, the slower Pokémon's Ability will override the faster Pokémon's Ability. The sunlight now lasts only for five turns. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Heat Rock. Drought will not activate if the Pokémon with the Ability is a Groudon about to undergo Primal Reversion; in that case, the Primal Reversion will happen instead, causing its Ability to be replaced by Desolate Land, and only that Ability will activate. Drought will also fail to activate if heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are already in effect. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness, Drought changes the weather to Sunny upon entering a floor, and then every subsequent 36 turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Drought changes the weather to sunny upon entering a floor. The sunny weather condition lasts a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66) before clearing. After the weather has cleared, Drought will again activate after waiting a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66). Drought debuted as an attack in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Groudon from the Legends Awakened expansion. When used, the attack allows the player to attach up to 2 Fighting Energy cards from their hand to 1 of their Pokémon. The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Drought attack.

Title: Arena Trap (Ability)

Arena Trap (Japanese: ありじごく Antlion) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Arena Trap prevents all grounded adjacent opponents from fleeing (including Teleport) or switching out as long as the user remains in battle. However, if a Pokémon with Arena Trap switches in, opponents are not prevented from switching out for that turn. Arena Trap does not affect Flying-type opponents, opponents with the ability Levitate, or opponents under the effect of Magnet Rise. Using Baton Pass, U-turn, Volt Switch, Flip Turn, or Parting Shot will still cause the Pokémon to switch out. Holding a Shed Shell allows the Pokémon to switch out, but not flee or Teleport. Having the Ability Run Away or holding a Smoke Ball allows the Pokémon to flee or Teleport, but not switch. If the player does not switch out a fainted Pokémon and instead attempts to flee, they will not be affected by a wild Pokémon with Arena Trap. Due to an oversight, enemy trainers will not try to switch out against the player's arena trap when the enemy has a Flying-type Pokémon or a Pokémon with the ability Levitate. Ghost-type Pokémon who are normally grounded are now immune to Arena Trap. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Arena Trap is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the wild Pokémon encounter rate of all Pokémon is doubled. It shares this trait with Illuminate and No Guard. In Emerald, Arena Trap does not affect Rock Smash encounter rate. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, this Ability only affects the rate at which hidden encounters happen. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, when an enemy Pokémon attacks a Pokémon with Arena Trap, there is a 12% chance of the attacking Pokémon becoming immobilized. Flying-type and Pokémon with the Ability Levitate are unaffected. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, any Pokémon adjacent to a Pokémon with the Ability Arena Trap cannot move, but are still able to use moves and items. Flying- and Ghost-type Pokémon, and Pokémon with the Ability Levitate and Run Away are unaffected. Arena Trap's names in English, Spanish, and Italian are puns. "Arena" refers to a place of combat, and also means sand in Latin and Spanish; as such, it can be interpreted both as "a trap on the battlefield" and "sand trap", the latter having a similar meaning to its name in other languages.

Title: Vital Spirit (Ability)

Vital Spirit (Japanese: やるき Willingness) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Vital Spirit prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by sleep and Yawn. Rest will fail when used by the Pokémon. A Pokémon with this Ability will wake up if it is asleep in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is put to sleep by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker). If a Pokémon with this Ability is drowsy due to Yawn, when it would fall asleep the Ability activates and keeps it awake. If a sleeping Pokémon with Vital Spirit is sent into battle as one of the lead Pokémon or to replace a fainted Pokémon, or gains Vital Spirit due to Trace, it will not be cured of sleep until after a Pokémon takes its turn (uses a move, switches out, etc.). It will be cured of sleep if it is switched in to replace a switched out Pokémon (including if switched in via Baton Pass). If a sleeping Pokémon has Vital Spirit as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain asleep when switched out. If the Pokémon with this Ability is asleep and is holding a Chesto or Lum Berry, Vital Spirit will cure the Pokémon of sleep before the Berry has a chance to be consumed. When a sleeping Pokémon with Vital Spirit enters battle, it will be cured of sleep. If a sleeping Pokémon has Vital Spirit as its original Ability but not its current Ability, if it is one of the active Pokémon at the end of the battle or switched out, it will be cured of sleep (with no message). If a sleeping Pokémon has Vital Spirit as its original Ability but not its current Ability, it will remain asleep when switched out. If the Pokémon with this Ability is asleep and is holding a Chesto or Lum Berry, the Berry will be eaten and cure the Pokémon of sleep before Vital Spirit has a chance to activate. If a sleeping Pokémon gains Vital Spirit by Evolution or the Ability Capsule, it will not wake up until sent into battle. Pokémon with Vital Spirit will not be put to sleep by the Gentleman's Kirlia in the Battle Pike nor the Battle Arcade's game board. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with Vital Spirit is in the first slot in the party (even if fainted), there's a 50% chance that a Pokémon will be forced to the upper bound of their encounter level range. It shares this effect with Hustle and Pressure. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Vital Spirit appears to have no effect on the level range of wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Vital Spirit appears to have no effect on the level range of wild Pokémon. Norman's Vigoroth is revealed to have Vital Spirit as his Ability. It is one of three Abilities that prevent sleeping, the others being Insomnia and Sweet Veil.

Title: White Smoke (Ability)

White Smoke (Japanese: しろいけむり White Smoke) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V and in Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Torkoal. White Smoke prevents stat reduction caused by other Pokémon's moves and Abilities (such as Scary Face and Intimidate), including Sticky Web. White Smoke does not prevent self-inflicted stat reductions such as from moves like Overheat or Shell Smash. White Smoke only protects from effects that lower stat stages, so it does not prevent stat reduction from items like the Iron Ball, the status conditions paralysis or burn, or the moves Guard Split or Power Split. White Smoke does not prevent stat stages being directly modified by Heart Swap, Guard Swap, Power Swap, Baton Pass, or Topsy-Turvy. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e., resetting) positive stat changes. This Ability is ignored by moves and Abilities that ignore Abilities, such as Mold Breaker. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, if a Pokémon with White Smoke is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the chance of encountering a wild Pokémon is decreased by 50%. It shares this effect with Quick Feet, Stench and Infiltrator (since Generation VIII). In Pokémon Sword and Shield only, this Ability instead decreases the chance of hidden encounters by 87.5%. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle.

Title: Pure Power (Ability)

Pure Power (Japanese: ヨガパワー Yoga Power) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. It is the signature Ability of Meditite and Medicham. Pure Power doubles the Attack stat of the Pokémon with this Ability. Because they use Attack modifiers (except stat stages), it also doubles the user's effective Attack stat when using Foul Play or Body Press. Pure Power also affects self-inflicted confusion damage. Pure Power has a one-in-three chance of boosting a physical move (including regular attacks and items like Iron Thorn) by 50% when such an attack is used. The chance of activating appears to be lower in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. Maylene's Meditite and Dahlia's Medicham were revealed to have Pure Power as their Ability.

Title: Shell Armor (Ability)

Shell Armor (Japanese: シェルアーマー Shell Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. Shell Armor prevents the Pokémon from receiving a critical hit, even from moves that normally always land one, namely Frost Breath, Storm Throw, Wicked Blow, Surging Strikes, Flower Trick, and any move boosted by Merciless (if the Pokémon is poisoned) or Laser Focus. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Samurott's Hidden Ability is Shell Armor instead of Sharpness, and Hisuian Sliggoo's and Goodra's Ability is Overcoat instead of Shell Armor. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Tierno's Crawdaunt was revealed to have Shell Armor as its Ability. Giovanni's Cloyster was revealed to have Shell Armor as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Lorelei's Shellder and Wallace's Clamperl were revealed to have Shell Armor as their Ability. Together with Protean, these are the only Abilities that more than one first partner Pokémon line can have as their Hidden Ability.

Title: Air Lock (Ability)

Air Lock (Japanese: エアロック Air Lock) is an Ability introduced in Generation III. It is the signature Ability of Rayquaza. When a Pokémon with Air Lock is in battle, all effects of weather are negated (though the weather itself does not disappear). When a Pokémon with Air Lock is brought out, the message "The effects of weather disappeared." will be displayed after the Ability is announced. During extremely harsh sunlight, heavy rain, and strong winds, even if a Pokémon is negating the effects of weather with Air Lock, the moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, and Hail will still fail if used, and the Abilities Drought, Drizzle, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning will still fail to activate. However, all other effects of these weather conditions are negated by Air Lock. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, and Explorers of Time, Darkness, Air Lock changes the current weather to Clear upon entering a floor, and then every subsequent 36 turns. Air Lock will take precedence over Drizzle, Drought, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning. Additionally, this Ability prevents the use of the moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Hail, and Sandstorm. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Air Lock nullifies the effects of the weather rather than changing the weather to Clear. Abilities such as Drizzle, and moves such as Rain Dance will still activate, but the effects of the weather will remain negated. Rayquaza is revealed to have Air Lock as its Ability. Air Lock is the last Generation III Ability in index number order. This is the case even before it was renumbered with the removal of Cacophony in Generation IV.

Title: Tangled Feet (Ability)

Tangled Feet (Japanese: ちどりあし Tottering Steps) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. While a Pokémon with this Ability is confused, moves targeting it have their accuracy halved. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Tangled Feet increases evasion by three stages when active. In volume 40, Pearl's Chatot, Chatler, was revealed to have Tangled Feet as his Ability. Tangled Feet debuted as an Ability in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Spinda from the Paradox Rift expansion. It allows the player to flip a coin if the Pokémon with this Ability is Confused and is about to receive damage from an attack from the opponent's Pokémon; if heads, the damage is prevented. The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Tangled Feet Ability. Tangled Feet is the first Generation IV Ability in index number order. Prior to Generation VIII, all Pokémon with this Ability were Normal-type and all except Spinda were Flying-type. Mr. Rime is the only Pokémon that can have this ability but is not Normal or Flying type.

Title: Motor Drive (Ability)

Motor Drive (Japanese: でんきエンジン Electric Engine) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Electivire. When a Pokémon with Motor Drive is hit by an Electric-type move, its Speed is increased by one stage, and the move will have no effect on that Pokémon. Multistrike moves that are turned into Electric-type moves, such as by being affected by Electrify or Galvanize, will only activate this Ability once. Motor Drive will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Electric-type move. If a Pokémon with Motor Drive is holding a Cell Battery, Motor Drive absorbs the move so the Cell Battery's effect is not triggered. Volkner's Electivire was revealed to have Motor Drive as his Ability.

Title: Rivalry (Ability)

Rivalry (Japanese: とうそうしん Belligerence) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. When a Pokémon with Rivalry uses an attack, the attack's power is raised by 25% if the target and the user have the same gender, and is reduced by 25% if the target and the user have opposite genders. Rivalry also powers up confusion damage. Rivalry has no effect if the user or target is gender unknown (such as Porygon). In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when the attacker's gender is opposite of the target, the Attack stat is reduced by one stage, and if it's matching, it's increased by one stage. In Gates to Infinity and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Rivalry increases the power of a move when attacking a Pokémon that shares a type. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Rivalry increases the power of a move by 20%. Lysandre's Pyroar is revealed to have Rivalry as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book.

Title: Steadfast (Ability)

Steadfast (Japanese: ふくつのこころ Indomitable Heart) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Steadfast increases the Pokémon's Speed stat by one stage whenever it flinches. The Speed boost will only apply if the flinching message is displayed. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Kleavor's Hidden Ability is Steadfast instead of Sharpness. Steadfast will raise the Pokémon's Movement Speed by one stage when it is cross-eyed or cringing. In Pokémon UNITE, Steadfast is Lucario's Ability. When the user is at low HP, it gets a shield and increased movement speed. Sapphire's Gallade, Kirly, was revealed to have Steadfast as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Henry's Sirfetch'd, Lancelot, and Darach's Gallade were revealed to have Steadfast as their Ability.

Title: Snow Cloak (Ability)

Snow Cloak (Japanese: ゆきがくれ Hidden in the Snow) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. During hail or snow, the accuracy of any move used against a Pokémon with this Ability is modified by a factor of 4/5 (in Generation IV) or 3277/4096 (in Generation V onward). A Pokémon with this Ability will take no damage from hail if it otherwise would. If a Pokémon with Snow Cloak is in the first place in the party (even if fainted) in an area with hail, the chance of encountering a wild Pokémon is decreased by 50%. This Ability appears to have no effect on encounter rate in Pokémon Sword and Shield. This Ability appears to have no effect on encounter rate in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Snow Cloak increases evasion by two stages when active. In volume 40, Platinum's Froslass was revealed to have Snow Cloak as her Ability. Two Beartic each belonging to a Team Plasma Grunt were revealed to Snow Cloak as their Ability.

Title: Gluttony (Ability)

Gluttony redirects here. For the Ultra Beast codenamed UB Gluttony in Japanese, see Guzzlord (Pokémon). Gluttony (Japanese: くいしんぼう Glutton) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Gluttony causes the Pokémon to eat Berries that would normally be eaten at 25% HP or lower to be eaten at 50% HP or lower instead. It has no effect on Berries that activate at other HP thresholds (such as the Oran Berry, which is normally eaten at 50% HP or less) or Berries with non-HP-related trigger conditions (such as the Leppa Berry and Lum Berry). In Generation VII, the Berries that may cause confusion, such as the Figy Berry and Mago Berry, are now eaten at 25% HP or less instead of being eaten at 50% HP or less, so are now affected by Gluttony. In the Explorers series and WiiWare games, Gluttony causes the Belly of the Pokémon with this Ability to empty out twice as fast. However, it also grants both benefits of the Survivalist IQ skill: a 50% chance to consume Grimy Food with no ill effects and 10% more Belly gain from food consumption. From Gates to Infinity onward, Gluttony heals 25 HP when the Pokémon eats or drinks an item. In Pokémon UNITE, Gluttony is Snorlax's Ability. It increases the effects gained from eating Berries and increases movement speed by 25% while moving towards Berries. Cilan's Pansage, Chili's Pansear, Cress's Panpour, and Trish's Heatmor were revealed to have Gluttony as their Ability.

Title: Anger Point (Ability)

Anger Point (Japanese: いかりのつぼ Anger Pressure Point) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a critical hit, Anger Point maximizes its Attack stat by raising it to +6 stages (regardless of its current stage). Anger Point will activate even if the Pokémon's substitute is hit. Anger Point no longer activates if the Pokémon's substitute is hit. In volume 40, Pearl's Tauros, Tauler, was revealed to have Anger Point as his Ability. Chuck's Primeape is revealed to have Anger Point as his Ability.

Title: Unburden (Ability)

Unburden (Japanese: かるわざ Acrobatics) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Drifloon and Drifblim. Unburden doubles the Pokémon's Speed stat when the Pokémon's held item is used or lost. This includes items that were lost via Knock Off, Thief, Incinerate, Bug Bite, and Pluck, as well as if an Air Balloon popped. If there is no held item to begin with or if a held item is traded for another, Unburden will not be activated. This boost is lost if the Pokémon is switched out, loses Unburden, or gains a held item. Regaining Unburden if it had been lost does not restore a previous boost. If Unburden is suppressed with Neutralizing Gas, a new boost cannot be gained, but a previous boost will return once Neutralizing Gas leaves the field. As long as a Pokémon with Unburden is not holding an item, it attacks or uses moves twice in one turn. Moves affected by this only have 1 PP deducted despite being used twice. N's Purrloin was revealed to have Unburden as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book.

Title: Heatproof (Ability)

Heatproof (Japanese: たいねつ Heatproof) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Bronzor and Bronzong. If a Pokémon with Heatproof is attacked by a Fire-type move, the opponent's Attack or Special Attack is reduced by 50% during damage calculation, effectively halving the damage the Pokémon takes. Prior to Generation IX, the power of affected moves is reduced by 50% instead. It also halves the damage done from the burn status ailment, from 1⁄16 to 1⁄32 of the Pokémon's maximum HP (from 1⁄8 to 1⁄16 of the Pokémon's maximum HP prior to Generation VII). Heatproof reduces the damage from Fire-type moves by half or a quarter. It also halves the damage taken from a burn.

Title: Simple (Ability)

Simple (Japanese: たんじゅん Simple) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Numel. Simple doubles the effectiveness of stat stages. For example, if Defense Curl is used, the screen will display that the user's Defense has increased by one stage and the game will store the user's Defense stage as +1, but the effect of that +1 stage will be equal to the effect of two regular stages and the user's Defense will be doubled during damage calculation. Similarly, if Tail Whip is used on this Pokémon, its Defense stat will fall one stage, but the effect will be treated as two. The effect of stat stages cannot exceed their usual cap. For example, a Pokémon with Simple that has obtained +3 Defense stages will have quadrupled their Defense stat in damage calculation (the usual effect of +6 Defense); they can still continue to use a move like Defense Curl up to three more times to boost their Defense stage to +6, but these three additional stages will have no greater effect during damage calculation. The same applies to -3 Defense. Because the stage numbers in-game have not changed, a Pokémon that uses Psych Up on a target with Simple only copies the stored (not doubled) stat stages. If a Pokémon uses Baton Pass to switch to a target with Simple, the target's passed stat stages will essentially gain double effect; if a Pokémon with Simple uses Baton Pass to a target without Simple, the target will not obtain any doubled stages. Similarly, if a Pokémon boosts its stats and then acquires Simple through a move like Skill Swap, its pre-existing effective stat changes will be doubled (barring caps) until it loses Simple. Simple now directly doubles the number of stages that a stat is increased or decreased when the move, Ability, or item is used. For example, if Defense Curl is used, the screen will display that the user's Defense has increased by two stages ("sharply rose") and the game will store the user's Defense stage as +2, doubling the user's Defense as expected. Similarly, Tail Whip targeting a Pokémon with Simple will cause its Defense to directly drop by two stages. As a result, moves like Defense Curl can only be used up to three times before they will fail (as the user's Defense stage will be the maximum of +6). If Psych Up is used on a target with Simple, the doubled stages will be copied. Using Baton Pass to a recipient with Simple will not cause the recipient to receive stat stages of double effect; if a Simple Pokémon uses Baton Pass itself, it will transfer the doubled stat stages. Similarly, if a Pokémon boosts its stats and then receives Simple through a move like Skill Swap, its pre-existing stat changes will not be doubled and nothing further will happen if it loses Simple. If a move used by a Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, or Turboblaze would change a stat stage of a Pokémon with Simple, the stat changes will not be doubled. The move Simple Beam can change the target Pokémon's Ability to Simple. Stat stage increases caused by the Z-Power effects of status Z-Moves are not modified by Simple. However, the stat stage increases as a result of Extreme Evoboost and Clangorous Soulblaze are modified. In Deduction Time, Hugh's Vibrava was hit with Simple Beam by a Team Plasma Grunt's Audino, giving it the Ability Simple.

Title: Dry Skin (Ability)

Dry Skin (Japanese: かんそうはだ Dry Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. When a Pokémon with Dry Skin is hit by a Water-type move, its HP is restored by one quarter of its maximum HP, and the move will have no effect on that Pokémon (if a Pokémon with this Ability already has full HP, the Water-type move will do nothing). This effect will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Water-type move. Multistrike moves, such as Water Shuriken, will only activate this effect once. Fire-type attacks do 25% more damage to a Pokémon with Dry Skin. During rain, a Pokémon with Dry Skin will regain ⅛ of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. During harsh sunlight, a Pokémon with Dry Skin will lose ⅛ of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. If a Pokémon with Dry Skin is holding an Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss, Dry Skin absorbs the Water-type move so the item's effect is not triggered. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Darkness and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, Pokémon with Dry Skin lose 3 HP every 9-10 turns in Sunny weather and take 50% more damage from Fire-type moves. Water-type moves heal equal to the damage that would be dealt. In the rain, the natural HP recovery rate is quadrupled from 0.5% of the maximum HP per turn, to 2% per turn. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity onward, Dry Skin prevents natural HP recovery. The Pokémon now lose 1 HP every 10 turns in Sunny weather, and Fire-type moves do 1.2× damage to the Pokémon. When hit by a Water-type move, the Pokémon restores 20% of their max HP. Their natural HP recovery rate is doubled in the rain. In volume 42, Crystal's Parasect, Parasee, was revealed to have Dry Skin as her Ability.

Title: Download (Ability)

Download (Japanese: ダウンロード Download) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V and in Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Porygon's evolutionary line. When a Pokémon with Download enters battle, or when a Pokémon gains Download, Download raises either the Attack stat or Special Attack stat by one stage depending on the foe's currently lowest defensive stat. It raises Attack if the foe's current Defense is lower than its current Special Defense stat; otherwise, it raises Special Attack. In case of a tie between Defense and Special Defense, Download increases Special Attack. For determining which of the foe's defensive stats is lower, Download takes into account stat stages and the effect of Power Trick; however, it does not consider the effects of held items, Abilities such as Marvel Scale, or Wonder Room. During a battle with multiple opponents, Download calculates the average Defense and Special Defense by adding the stats of all opposing Pokémon, and determines the lowest stat between both averages. Download does not take into account the defensive stats of opponents behind a substitute. If all opponents are behind a substitute, Download will not activate. Download now takes into account the defensive stats of opponents behind a substitute. Blake's Genesect is revealed to have Download as its Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. All Pokémon who have this Ability were either engineered or modified by humans.

Title: Iron Fist (Ability)

Iron Fist redirects here. For the Paradox Pokémon with a similar name, see Iron Hands (Pokémon). Iron Fist (Japanese: てつのこぶし Iron Fist) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Hitmonchan. Iron Fist causes the power of affected punching moves to increase by 20% (approximated as a factor of 4915/4096 since Generation V). This boost stacks with the Punching Glove, resulting in a power boost of 32%. The table below lists the moves affected by Iron Fist, as well as the Pokémon that can have Iron Fist and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Iron Fist. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Iron Fist by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Darkness and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, Iron Fist boosts the affected moves by 50%. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the power of punching moves is increased by 20% instead. In volume 42, Crystal's Hitmonchan, Monlee, was revealed to have Iron Fist as his Ability. Shauntal's Golurk was revealed to have Iron Fist as its Ability. Sun's Crabominable, Loot, was revealed to have Iron Fist as his Ability. Although Rock Smash is described as a "punch", it does not have its power increased by Iron Fist. The following moves, despite what their English names may imply, do not have their power increased by Iron Fist: Sucker Punch, since it is called「ふいうち」Surprise Attack in Japanese. Poison Jab, since it is called「どくづき」 Poison Stab in Japanese. While Hitmonchan can learn Dizzy Punch by level up in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! only, the move cannot be boosted by Iron Fist in these games due to Abilities not being present in those games.

Title: Poison Heal (Ability)

Poison Heal (Japanese: ポイズンヒール Poison Heal) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Shroomish and Breloom. If the Pokémon is poisoned or badly poisoned, it will gain 1/8 of its maximum HP at the end of each turn instead of taking damage. When a Pokémon with Poison Heal is badly poisoned, this has no effect on the Pokémon's HP recovery. However, the bad poison counter still increases each turn even if the Pokémon has Poison Heal; as such, if Gastro Acid is used on the Pokémon with Poison Heal after being badly poisoned for five turns, it will incur poison damage starting at 5/16 (instead of 1/16). If a poisoned Pokémon with Poison Heal is affected by Heal Block, it will be neither healed nor damaged by the poison. Poison Heal has no effect outside of battle, so in Generation IV, poison will still hurt a Pokémon outside of battle even if it has this Ability. When the Pokémon is poisoned or badly poisoned, the Pokémon recovers HP rather than taking damage. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, a Pokémon with this Ability recovers 0.5% of their maximum HP each turn, and an additional 6 HP every 10 turns, when poisoned or badly poisoned.

Title: Adaptability (Ability)

Adaptability (Japanese: てきおうりょく Adaptability) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Adaptability increases STAB of a Pokémon with this Ability from 1.5 to 2. When a Pokémon with Adaptability is Terastallized, Adaptability only affects moves of the Tera Type. If the Pokémon's Tera Type is one of its original types, its STAB is 2.25; otherwise, it's 2. Stellar-type moves are unaffected by Adaptability. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Darkness, and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, Adaptability increases STAB from 1.5× to 2×. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the boost is instead from 1.2× to 1.5×. In Pokémon UNITE, Adaptability is the Ability of an Eevee that will evolve into an Sylveon. It increases the user's Special Attack by 5% for 1.5s, when it deals or receives damage, stacking up to 4 times. This becomes Pixilate upon evolving. Red's Eevee, Vee, is revealed to have Adaptability as his Ability. Adaptability is the first Ability in alphabetical order.

Title: Skill Link (Ability)

Skill Link (Japanese: スキルリンク Skill Link) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Shellder and Cloyster. Skill Link enables multistrike moves with a variable number of strikes to always strike five times. If Skill Link is lost in the middle of the move (such as via Mummy), the user will still hit the maximum number of times on the turn in progress. Skill Link affects the moves Triple Kick and Triple Axel, which can hit up to three times; and Population Bomb, which can hit up to ten times. When any of these moves are used by Pokémon with this Ability, there will be one accuracy check for all strikes instead of individual checks for each strike. The table below lists the moves affected by Skill Link, as well as the Pokémon that can have Skill Link and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Skill Link. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Skill Link by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play.

Title: Hydration (Ability)

Hydration (Japanese: うるおいボディ Moist Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. At the end of each turn, if it is raining, Hydration will cure the Pokémon of any non-volatile status condition. If it cures a status condition, it does so before burn or poison damage is dealt on that turn. Pokémon who are made drowsy by Yawn will not fall asleep until after Hydration takes effect, and as such, will not be healed until the end of the next turn. A Manaphy and Phione that Diamond took care of were revealed to have Hydration as their Ability.

Title: Solar Power (Ability)

Solar Power (Japanese: サンパワー Sun Power) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. During harsh sunlight, Solar Power increases the Pokémon's Special Attack by 1.5×, but the Pokémon loses 1/8 of its maximum HP at the end of each turn, if harsh sunlight does not end that turn. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, Solar Power increases the Pokémon's Special Attack by one stage in sunny weather. The Pokémon loses 3HP every 9-10 turns, but does not prevent the natural HP recovery. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Solar Power sharply boosts the Pokémon's Special Attack when the weather is sunny or in harsh sunlight. The Pokémon also loses 1 HP every 10 turns and is unable to recover HP naturally.

Title: Quick Feet (Ability)

Quick Feet (Japanese: はやあし Quick Feet) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. While a Pokémon with this Ability has a status condition, its Speed is increased by 50%. Additionally, a Pokémon with this Ability does not lose Speed due to paralysis. If a Pokémon with Quick Feet is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the chance of encountering a wild Pokémon is decreased by 50%. It shares this effect with Stench, White Smoke and Infiltrator (since Generation VIII). In Pokémon Sword and Shield only, this Ability instead decreases the chance of hidden encounters by 87.5%. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet this Ability has no effect outside of battle. In Generation V, Venipede, Whirlipede, and Scolipede have Quick Feet as their Hidden Ability. It was obtained by befriending Scolipede in Pleasant Forest if using an account connected with Pokémon Black 2 and White 2. In Generation VI, their Hidden Ability is replaced with Speed Boost. If the Pokémon is inflicted with a bad status condition, its Travel Speed is raised by one level. As a result, the Pokémon cannot be slowed. In volume 24, Green's Granbull was revealed to have Quick Feet as his Ability. Although the Ability was introduced in Generation IV, no Generation IV Pokémon can have Quick Feet.

Title: Normalize (Ability)

Normalize (Japanese: ノーマルスキン Normal Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature Ability of Skitty and Delcatty. Normalize makes all moves (including status moves) used by the Pokémon with this Ability become Normal-type instead of their usual type. If Normalize makes Thunder Wave a Normal-type move, Thunder Wave can affect Ground-type Pokémon; Thunder Wave can only affect Ghost-type Pokémon that are either holding a Ring Target or affected by Foresight or Odor Sleuth. If the move Flying Press is affected by Normalize, it deals Normal/Flying-type damage. If the move Freeze-Dry is affected by Normalize, it will still do super effective damage against Water-type Pokémon. If a Pokémon with Normalize is under the effect of Electrify or Ion Deluge, all of its moves become Electric-type rather than Normal-type. Hidden Power, Weather Ball, Natural Gift, and Judgment are affected by Normalize. Hidden Power, Weather Ball, Natural Gift, and Judgment are no longer affected by Normalize. Similarly, Techno Blast is unaffected by Normalize. Normal-type moves used by the Pokémon with this Ability now receive a 20% power boost (precisely, a factor of 4915/4096), except moves that cannot be affected by Normalize. This boost applies to both moves that are originally Normal-type and moves that become Normal-type due to Normalize. Multi-Attack, Terrain Pulse, and damaging Z-Moves are unaffected by Normalize. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, Normalize also turns the standard attack into a Normal-type move. It also makes throwing items deal Normal-type damage. This does not apply to items that deal fixed damage, although it does affect Vacuum-Cut. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 and Viz Mini-volume 12 for the X & Y arc, Shauna's Skitty, Neko, was revealed to have Normalize as its Ability.

Title: Sniper (Ability)

Sniper (Japanese: スナイパー Sniper) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Critical hits will do 3× damage instead of 2× damage. Sniper cannot be activated by Beat Up. Sniper can now be activated by Beat Up. Additionally, rather than changing the critical hit multiplier directly, Sniper now multiplies by 1.5 the damage dealt by a move that deals a critical hit, applied last to damage as part of the "final" modifiers that get applied to the damage, resulting in virtually the same effect. Critical hits will now effectively do only 2.25× damage, as a result of the critical hit multiplier being lowered to 1.5×. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Sniper makes critical hits do 2× damage instead of 1.5× damage. Yellow's Seadra is revealed to have Sniper as his Ability. All Pokémon that can have Sniper can learn Focus Energy or at least one move with a high critical-hit ratio.

Title: Magic Guard (Ability)

Magic Guard (Japanese: マジックガード Magic Guard) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Clefairy's evolutionary line. Magic Guard prevents the Pokémon from receiving indirect damage, but does not prevent it from becoming afflicted by statuses that would deal such damage. Additional effects, such as being trapped while bound or having its Attack reduced by burn, are not prevented even though their damage is. Magic Guard prevents damage caused by effects including weather, poison and burn, effects like Curse and Leech Seed, entry hazards, recoil (except from Struggle), crash damage, and damage from using Mind Blown or Steel Beam. Magic Guard prevents the damage inflicted by a Life Orb, but the holder still gains the power boost. Magic Guard does not prevent confusion damage or direct modification of a Pokémon's HP through means other than damage, such as by Pain Split, Belly Drum, Substitute, or a Ghost type cutting its own HP to use Curse. Moves that cause the user to faint, Destiny Bond, and Perish Song can still cause a Pokémon with Magic Guard to faint. When a Pokémon with Magic Guard is badly poisoned, Magic Guard still prevents poison damage, but it does not prevent the counter from increasing every turn. Consequently, if the Pokémon's Magic Guard is suppressed or changed, it will begin taking poison damage proportional to the counter's current value. Magic Guard blocks damage from the Gulp Missile counterattack, but does not prevent the Defense drop or paralysis from it. If a Pokémon with Magic Guard hits a target holding a Jaboca Berry with a physical attack, or a target holding a Rowap Berry with a special attack, the Pokémon will not eat the berry and no damage will be dealt. If a Pokémon with Magic Guard is paralyzed, it cannot be prevented from using a move due to paralysis, although its Speed is still reduced. A Pokémon with Magic Guard cannot be poisoned by Toxic Spikes. Magic Guard no longer grants immunity to being fully paralyzed and no longer prevents poisoning from Toxic Spikes (but it still prevents poison damage). Magic Guard has no effect outside of battle. This means a poisoned Pokémon with Magic Guard will still take damage in the field in Generation IV (but not later generations, because poison no longer causes damage in the field starting in Generation V). White's Duosion, Solly, was revealed to have Magic Guard as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book.

Title: No Guard (Ability)

No Guard (Japanese: ノーガード No Guard) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Machop's evolutionary line. All moves used by or against a Pokémon with this Ability cannot miss. It also allows Pokémon to be hit during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, Bounce, Dive, Dig, Shadow Force, Sky Drop, and Phantom Force. It does not bypass type immunities. A Tatsugiri hidden inside a Dondozo's mouth via the Commander Ability is immune to the effects of No Guard. In Diamond and Pearl, a Pokémon with No Guard can successfully hit a Pokémon that has used Protect or Detect, but only if it uses a move with less than 100% accuracy. The lower the initial accuracy of the move, the higher its chance of breaking through Protect or Detect. Thus, when used against Protect or Detect, moves that never miss (such as Swift and Aerial Ace) will always be blocked. One-hit knockout moves are exempted from this behavior and will be protected against. This battle mechanic was a bug, and was fixed in Platinum so that most moves are blocked by Protect and Detect. Outside of battle, if a Pokémon with No Guard is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the wild Pokémon encounter rate increases by 100%. It shares this property with Arena Trap and Illuminate. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, this Ability only affects the rate at which random encounters happen. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle. Kubfu had No Guard coded as its Hidden Ability in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet versions 1.0.0 to 1.1.0. However, this was removed in version 1.2.0. Kubfu was not legally obtainable in Scarlet and Violet during this period. No Guard causes the Pokémon to ignore both harmful and beneficial modifications to accuracy and evasiveness for both the target and itself. In the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers series, this prevents the Pokémon's own Concentrator and Clutch Performer IQ skills from working. In Pokémon UNITE, No Guard is Honedge's and Doublade's Ability. It increases the damage dealt and received by the user. After evolving into Aegislash, it becomes Stance Change. A Pokémon with No Guard can use one-hit knockout moves without missing. This may be a cause of several measures preventing Machop's evolutionary line from having the combination of No Guard and Fissure, which it can learn in Generation I. Although Machop's line can retain the move Fissure when transferred to Generation VII and Pokémon Sword and Shield, it can only have the Hidden Ability Steadfast, as Poké Transporter assigns the Hidden Ability to all Pokémon transferred from Virtual Console. Despite the introduction of the Ability Capsule and Ability Patch, they were restricted from changing a Hidden Ability to a standard Ability in Generations VII and VIII. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, it is now possible to use the Ability Patch to remove a Pokémon's Hidden Ability and send it back to Sword and Shield where it will have both the changed Ability and its old moveset, but Machop's line is not in the game. Finally, even if Machop's line appears in a future game with the Ability Patch, not only will Pokémon HOME not carry over Fissure to those games, Pokémon that have been transferred past Pokémon Legends: Z-A are barred from transfer back to Sword and Shield.

Title: Stall (Ability)

Stall (Japanese: あとだし Going After) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature Ability of Sableye. The Pokémon with this Ability moves last in its priority bracket, regardless of its Speed and Trick Room. If Stall is gained, lost, or suppressed, then it will not affect turn order until the beginning of the next turn. If the Pokémon's held Quick Claw activates, Stall does not affect when that Pokémon moves. If multiple Pokémon have the Ability Stall and use moves with the same priority, the Pokémon with the lower Speed will move first (regardless of Trick Room). A Pokémon with Stall moves before Pokémon holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense. If a Pokémon with Stall also holds a Lagging Tail or Full Incense, Stall does not affect when the Pokémon moves. If multiple Pokémon with the Ability Stall or that are holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense use moves with the same priority, the Pokémon move relatively according to Speed (the order is reversed during Trick Room). In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, an AI controlled Pokémon with Stall will only consider attacking if there's an adjacent enemy. This does not impact the rest of the AI's decisions, meaning it still can attack enemies far away with moves that have range, as long as there's at least one enemy near them.

Title: Technician (Ability)

Technician (Japanese: テクニシャン Technician) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Technician increases the power of moves which have a power of 60 or less by 50%. For moves with variable power, Technician will only apply if the power is 60 or less when used. For example, Low Kick and Grass Knot will only get a Technician boost if the target's weight is 110.0 lbs. (49.9 kg) or less. The effect does not apply to confusion damage, which remains at a power of 40. However, if a Pokémon hurts itself in confusion induced due to disobedience, the power is increased to 60. Despite Struggle having a base power of 60 or less, and Beat Up having a base power of 10 for each strike, both moves are not boosted by Technician in Generation IV. Technician applies after the base power modifiers for double base power moves (such as Gust and Pursuit), Charge, and Helping Hand, so if any of those cause a move's base power to exceed 60, Technician's boost will not apply. Technician no longer applies for any means of confusion damage, including the one induced by disobedience. Struggle and Beat Up are now boosted by Technician. Technician no longer takes into account base power modifiers, but does consider variable base power (e.g. Rollout, Ice Ball, Gust, Acrobatics), which must be 60 or less to be boosted by Technician. The table below lists the moves affected by Technician, as well as the Pokémon that can have Technician and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they can be only learned by Smeargle by using Sketch (with exception of Struggle, Chatter, and Generation VIII moves), or used by a Pokémon that acquired the Ability through a method such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, Technician increases damage of moves whose base power is 4 or lower, taking Ginseng and Space Globe boosts into account, by 50%. The table below lists the moves affected by Technician in these games, as well as the Pokémon that have Technician and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they can be only learned by Smeargle who has Sketched them. In Gates to Infinity and Super Mystery Dungeon, Technician increases damage of moves whose base power is 5 or lower, taking base power boosts from move levels, Power Manuals, and Power Drinks into account. In Rescue Team DX, Technician increases damage of moves whose base power is 5 or lower, but does not take into account base power boosts from move levels or Power Drinks. In volume 42, Gold's Ambipom, Aibo, was revealed to have Technician as his Ability. Sun's Alolan Meowth, Cent, was revealed to have Technician as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Chuck's Hitmontop and Geoff's Cinccino were revealed to have Technician as their Ability.

Title: Leaf Guard (Ability)

Leaf Guard (Japanese: リーフガード Leaf Guard) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. During harsh sunlight, Leaf Guard prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by non-volatile status conditions (including via Flame Orb and Toxic Orb) and Yawn. It has no effect on any status conditions the Pokémon was afflicted by prior to the weather being set up. If harsh sunlight is created in the turn where a Pokémon made drowsy due to Yawn would fall asleep, the Ability will activate and keep the Pokémon awake. Rest can still be used normally, and the user falls asleep for two turns. Rest will now fail if used by a Pokémon with Leaf Guard during harsh sunlight.

Title: Klutz (Ability)

Klutz (Japanese: ぶきよう Clumsy) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Buneary and Lopunny. Klutz prevents the effects of the held item of the Pokémon with this Ability from applying. Klutz does not negate item effects that affect prize money, experience, effort values, or friendship, such as those of the Amulet Coin, Lucky Egg, Power Weight, or Soothe Bell. The Speed drop from the Macho Brace, and Power items (such as the Power Bracer) is not negated by Klutz. The Speed drop from the Iron Ball is not negated, but the grounding effect is. Klutz prevents the Pokémon with this Ability from using Natural Gift; however, it does not prevent the Pokémon from using Fling. If a Pokémon with Klutz uses Bug Bite or Pluck, it will consume the target's held Berry without gaining its effects. If a Pokémon with Klutz uses Judgment, it will be a Normal-type move. Klutz now prevents the Pokémon with this Ability from using Fling. If a Pokémon with Klutz uses Bug Bite or Pluck, it will now receive the effects of a consumed held Berry. If a Pokémon with Klutz uses Techno Blast, it will be a Normal-type move. All effects of the Iron Ball are now negated by Klutz. However, Klutz still does not negate the Speed drop from the Macho Brace and Power items. If a Pokémon is already locked into a move due to a held Choice item (Choice Scarf, Choice Specs, Choice Band), if the held Choice item is removed while its effect is negated, the Pokémon will be affected by the Choice item lock glitch. Klutz cannot prevent the form-changing effects of items, but will still negate the other effects of those items (e.g. if a Giratina holding a Griseous Orb has Klutz, it will remain in its Origin Forme, but will not receive the 20% boost in the power of Dragon- and Ghost-type moves). Klutz does not prevent Pokémon with this Ability from Mega Evolving with a Mega Stone or undergoing Primal Reversion with the Red Orb or Blue Orb. Klutz does not prevent Pokémon with this Ability from using a Z-Move with a Z-Crystal. If a Pokémon with Klutz uses Multi-Attack, it will be a Normal-type move. Klutz has no effect outside of battle. Items such as the Everstone, Cleanse Tag, Scarves, and Soothe Bell are not affected. Klutz prevents the effects of the held item from applying. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, it also prevents the Pokémon from using or throwing items. This effect does not apply if the Pokémon is the team leader. Additionally, Klutz prevents the Pokémon from being afflicted by the puppet status condition.

Title: Mold Breaker (Ability)

Mold Breaker (Japanese: かたやぶり Mold-Breaking) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. When a Pokémon with Mold Breaker uses a move, the effects of all Pokémon's ignorable Abilities are ignored for the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies.) For example, a Pokémon with Mold Breaker that uses Earthquake can hit opponents that have Levitate. In Generation IV, when a Pokémon with Mold Breaker is brought out, the message "<name> has Mold Breaker!" is displayed. From Generation V onward, when a Pokémon with Mold Breaker is brought out, the message "<name> breaks the mold!" is displayed. Flower Gift will increase the Attack of allies with Mold Breaker, even when they are attacking the ally with Flower Gift. If a Pokémon with Mold Breaker forces a Pokémon to switch in by using a move that switches the target out (such as Roar or Dragon Tail), ignorable Abilities are ignored when applying entry hazards. For example, a Pokémon with Levitate switched in this way will be affected by Spikes and Toxic Spikes (unless it is also ungrounded for other reasons); if a Poison-type Pokémon with Levitate is switched in this way, it will remove Toxic Spikes from its side of the field (unless it is also ungrounded for other reasons). If a Pokémon with Mold Breaker attacks, it does not gain Attack due to an ally's Flower Gift. Mold Breaker no longer ignores Dark Aura and Fairy Aura, though it will still ignore Aura Break. In Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, Roark's Rampardos's Mold Breaker prevented Ash's Pikachu and Paul's Elekid's Static from inflicting it with paralysis, despite the fact that Static is not affected by Mold Breaker in the games.

Title: Super Luck (Ability)

Super Luck (Japanese: きょううん Good Luck) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Murkrow and Honchkrow. Super Luck increases the critical hit ratio by 1 stage. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, if a Pokémon with Super Luck breaks a rock and finds an item, the game will instead pick the item below it in the game's list, unless it was the 5% item (this effectively means it will never find the most common item). If a Pokémon with this Ability leads the party (even if fainted), the chances of finding a wild Pokémon holding an item increase from 50%/5% to 60%/20%. This effect is shared with Compound Eyes. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Super Luck has no effect on the items held by wild Pokémon. Super Luck increases moves' critical hit ratio by 15%. In Pokémon UNITE, Super Luck is Absol's Ability. It increases the user's critical hit ratio by 15%. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Absol, Solsol, was revealed to have Super Luck as his Ability. N's Pidove was revealed to have Super Luck as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Hugh's Pidove is revealed to have Super Luck as its Ability. The reason why mostly bird-like Pokémon have this Ability may be because, in Japanese culture, birds are symbolic of good luck.

Title: Aftermath (Ability)

Aftermath (Japanese: ゆうばく Induced Explosion) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. When a Pokémon with this Ability faints due to damage from a move that makes contact, the attacking Pokémon takes damage equal to ¼ of its own maximum HP. This Ability will not activate if a Pokémon with Damp is on the field or if the Pokemon was knocked out by a move that dealt direct damage. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when the Pokémon faints, it sometimes causes an explosion similar to Selfdestruct, reducing HP by half on team members and by 40 on hostile Pokémon, as well as destroying items. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Aftermath activates when hit by a contact move from an adjacent enemy, dealing damage equal to 25% of the attacking Pokémon's maximum HP. Aftermath will also cause the Pokémon to explode when it is hit by an explosion, dealing damage equal to 25% of the Pokémon's maximum HP to itself and surrounding Pokémon, as well as destroying all walls, items, and special tiles. Fantina's Drifblim is revealed to have Aftermath as her Ability. In Hareta's Heart's Desire, Flint's Drifblim was revealed to have the Ability, but it was Skill Swapped by Hareta's Misdreavus. All Pokémon that are able to have this Ability can learn Explosion. Aftermath's similarity to Explosion is more apparent in languages other than English, including the original Japanese, in which the Ability is known as ゆうばく Yūbaku (Induced Explosion). This is also why the Ability Damp affects Aftermath. Prior to becoming an Ability, Aftermath appeared as a TCG Attack.

Title: Anticipation (Ability)

Anticipation (Japanese: きけんよち Danger Premonition) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. When a Pokémon with Anticipation enters the battle or a Pokémon gains the Ability Anticipation, it causes the Pokémon to "shudder" if an opponent has a damaging move that is super effective against the Pokémon with Anticipation, a one-hit knockout move, or Self-Destruct or Explosion. Shuddering has no actual effect, except that the presence of the Ability message is meant to provide information about possible moves the opponent might have. Hidden Power, Judgment, Weather Ball, and Natural Gift are treated as Normal-type moves. If the opponent has Scrappy or Normalize, or if Gravity is in effect, Anticipation will take those effects into account when determining if an opponent's move is in fact super effective. Counter, Metal Burst, and Mirror Coat do not trigger Anticipation. The moves Selfdestruct and Explosion are now treated like all other Normal-type moves and thus no longer trigger Anticipation. Counter, Metal Burst, and Mirror Coat are counted as attacking moves of their types, so can trigger Anticipation. Techno Blast is treated as a Normal-type move. Synchronoise is treated as an ordinary Psychic-type move. Anticipation no longer factors in the effects of Scrappy, Normalize, or Gravity on type matchups when determining if it should display a trigger message. Hidden Power is now treated as its effective type rather than Normal-type. Revelation Dance and Multi-Attack are treated as Normal-type moves. Freeze-Dry is treated as an ordinary Ice-type move. Flying Press is treated as an ordinary Fighting-type move. Aura Wheel is treated as an Electric-type move. Anticipation takes into account the modified type chart of Inverse Battles and thus can be triggered by Normal-type moves (including Self-Destruct and Explosion). Anticipation does not factor in the effect of strong winds on type matchups, nor the effect of opponents' abilities such as Aerilate on changing the type of their moves. In Generation V, Ferrothorn has no Hidden Ability. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, and the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, when a Pokémon with Anticipation attacks an opponent with a regular attack, it can detect if the opponent has any supereffective moves. Since Gates to Infinity, Anticipation increases the chance of evading supereffective moves and one-hit knockout moves. In Pokémon UNITE, Anticipation is Ability of an Eevee that will evolve into an Espeon. When Eevee would be affected by a hindrance (including slow), the hindrance is negated and Eevee becomes immune to hindrances for a short time. Hindrances that have multiple hits, such as Pikachu's Volt Tackle, will have only the first hit negated. This Ability has 45 second cooldown. Upon evolving into Espeon, this becomes Magic Bounce.

Title: Forewarn (Ability)

Forewarn (Japanese: よちむ Prophetic Dream) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Forewarn shows the opponent's move with the highest power. If two or more moves are of the same power, one will be chosen at random. In battles with multiple opponents, Forewarn will only show the highest power move out of all the moves known by the opponents. If multiple opponents have a move with the same power, one will be chosen at random. Forewarn can reveal a move of a non-adjacent opponent even if the move wouldn't be able to hit the Pokémon with Forewarn due to being out of range. Damaging moves without a power (i.e. moves that deal direct damage and moves that have variable power) are assigned one. If the opposing Pokémon only have status moves, it will still assign one to them. If the opposing Pokémon is Dynamaxed, it will only assign a move from the Pokémon's base moves. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Explorers series and the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, a Pokémon with Forewarn occasionally evades moves, even moves that never miss. From Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity onwards, Forewarn shows the location of items and Pokémon on the floor while the Pokémon is in the Sleep, Napping, or Nightmare status condition. In volume 44, Black's Munna, Musha, was revealed to have Forewarn as his Ability.

Title: Unaware (Ability)

This article is about the Ability that involves stat changes. For the Ability with a synonymous meaning, see Oblivious (Ability). Unaware (Japanese: てんねん Airhead) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Bidoof and Bibarel. If a Pokémon with this Ability uses a damaging move or is targeted by a damaging move, the other Pokémon's stat stages are ignored during damage and accuracy calculation. Specifically, when a Pokémon with this Ability uses a damaging move, the evasion stat stages of the targets are ignored during accuracy calculation, and the Defense and Special Defense stat stages of the targets are ignored during damage calculation; when a Pokémon with this Ability is targeted by a damaging move, the accuracy stat stages of the attacking Pokémon are ignored during accuracy calculation, and the Attack and Special Attack stat stages of the attacking Pokémon are ignored during damage calculation. Unaware will not prevent the moves Gyro Ball, Electro Ball, Stored Power, Punishment, and Power Trip from factoring in the stat changes that determine their power. This Ability has no effect on a Pokémon hurting itself in confusion. Unaware does not ignore the damage decrease from being burned as being burned halves the move's power, not the user's attack stat. Skyla's Swoobat is revealed to have Unaware as its Ability. In Pokémon Rumble World, capturing all Pokémon with Unaware as a standard Ability awards the "Ditzy Friend" title.

Title: Tinted Lens (Ability)

Tinted Lens (Japanese: いろめがね Tinted Glasses) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Tinted Lens doubles the damage done by any moves that the Pokémon uses which are "not very effective". This effect is independent of whether the type effectiveness is ½× or less. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Braviary's Hidden Ability is Defiant instead of Tinted Lens. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, Tinted Lens boosts the damage of not very effective moves by about 20%. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the boost is 40%. This Ability is probably a reference to the idiom "viewing the world through rose-tinted glasses", an expression which means to see good where there is none.

Title: Filter (Ability)

Filter (Japanese: フィルター Filter) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature Ability of Mime Jr. and Mr. Mime. Filter reduces damage from supereffective moves by 25%. For example, a move that would do 2× damage will do 1.5× damage instead. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Filter reduces the damage received from supereffective moves by 25%. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, it reduces the damage by about 12.5%. In Pokémon UNITE, Filter is Mr. Mime's Ability. After this Pokémon uses a move, it reduces the damage received for a short time. Emerald's Mr. Mime is revealed to have Filter as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Sabrina's Mr. Mime is revealed to have Filter as her Ability.

Title: Slow Start (Ability)

Slow Start (Japanese: スロースタート Slow Start) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature Ability of Regigigas. Slow Start halves the user's Attack and Speed stats during the first five turns in battle. This counter is reset if the Pokémon is switched out. Replacing or suppresing Slow Start (such as from Skill Swap or Worry Seed) removes its Attack and Speed modifiers. Because Slow Start is not a stat stage change, it halves the effective Attack stat of Foul Play and Body Press done by the user despite the moves using another stat instead of the user's Attack. If the user holds a typed Z-Crystal and uses a Z-Move based on a special move, Slow Start will also reduce the Special Attack stat for the duration of that move only. In the Japanese version of Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, removing Slow Start does not undo the Attack and Speed drop; it must still wait five turns. This was changed in localized versions as well as in Pokémon Platinum. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Abilities do not occur in normal gameplay. However, Slow Start has been reworked into a status condition exclusive to Regigigas. Regigigas will gain the Slow Start status condition upon entering battle for its first five turns, halving its Attack and Speed stats. Due to the different way damage is calculated in this game, Slow Start's effect on Attack is much less impactful on damage output than in other games. In Pokémon Rumble World, Regigigas has the Slow Start ability, reducing its attack power and movement speed until it has defeated 10 opposing Pokémon, resetting every screen. This effect is also seen in Pokémon Rumble Blast, though in the form of the Special Trait Slow-Starting. When the Pokémon enters a dungeon floor, its Travel Speed is reduced for 7 or 5 turns. The Pokémon's Attack is not affected. In volume 40, Diamond's Regigigas, Reg, was revealed to have Slow Start as its Ability. Pocket Monsters Diamond and Pearl: Regigigas Major Capture Operation!!

Title: Scrappy (Ability)

Scrappy (Japanese: きもったま Spunk) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Scrappy enables the Pokémon with this Ability to hit Ghost-type Pokémon with damage-dealing Normal- and Fighting-type moves. From Generation VIII onwards, Scrappy now also grants an immunity to Intimidate. In the internal code for Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Hisuian Decidueye's Hidden Ability is Long Reach instead of Scrappy. X's Kangaskhan, Kanga, was revealed to have Scrappy as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Professor Oak's Kangaskhan, Kanga, and Whitney's Miltank, Mil Mil, were revealed to have Scrappy as their Ability.

Title: Storm Drain (Ability)

Storm Drain (Japanese: よびみず Pump Priming) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Storm Drain forces all single-target Water-type moves used by other Pokémon (including allies) to target the Pokémon with this Ability, if possible. Water-type moves will never miss the Pokémon with this Ability, unless it is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move (such as Dive or Fly), although Surf will never miss a Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of Dive. Storm Drain can only redirect Dive on the turn Dive deals damage. If another Pokémon becomes the center of attention, Water-type moves will be directed to it instead of the Pokémon with Storm Drain. If a Pokémon with Storm Drain is targeted by a Water-type move while holding an Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss, Storm Drain absorbs the move so the item's effect is not triggered. Moves (e.g. G-Max Hydrosnipe) and Abilities that ignore Abilities ignore Storm Drain and hit the intended target. In Triple Battles, Storm Drain cannot redirect Water-type moves if the Pokémon is out of range. Storm Drain cannot redirect Water-type Judgment or Natural Gift. Along with its previous effects, Storm Drain also gives the Pokémon immunity to all Water-type moves, and it raises the Pokémon's Special Attack by one stage whenever it is hit by one. Water-type multistrike moves (such as Water Shuriken or Water-type moves affected by Parental Bond) will only activate this effect once. This effect will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Water-type move. Storm Drain can now redirect Water-type Judgment and Natural Gift. The Abilities Propeller Tail and Stalwart and the move Snipe Shot bypass the targeting effect of Storm Drain, but not the Water-type immunity. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, if a Pokémon with Storm Drain is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 51% chance the game will force an encounter with a Water-type Pokémon, if one is possible. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the chance is 50%. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle, with its former field function effectively being replaced by Meal Powers. In Explorers of Time and Darkness, a Pokémon with Storm Drain draws in all enemy Water-type attacks on the floor, completely neutralizing them. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, the effect is now only room-wide. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Storm Drain also increases the Pokémon's Special Attack by one stage when hit by a Water-type move.

Title: Ice Body (Ability)

Ice Body (Japanese: アイスボディ Ice Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. During hail or snow, a Pokémon with Ice Body will regain 1/16 of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. A Pokémon with this Ability will take no damage from hail if it otherwise would. Under normal conditions, Pokémon recover 0.5% of their maximum HP at the end of each turn. Ice Body increases the rate of HP recovery by 4-times or 2-times when the weather is hail. A Team Plasma Grunt's Vanillite was revealed to Ice Body as its Ability.

Title: Solid Rock (Ability)

Solid Rock (Japanese: ハードロック Hard Rock) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Solid Rock reduces damage from supereffective moves by 25%. For example, a move that would do 2× damage will do 1.5× damage instead. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Solid Rock reduces damage from super effective moves by 25%. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, it reduces the damage by about 12.5%. All Pokémon with Solid Rock have at least one 4× weakness. Camerupt is the only Pokémon with Solid Rock not to have a 4× weakness to Grass. Despite the name of this Ability, Solid Rock was given to more Ground-type Pokémon than Rock types in its debut generation.

Title: Snow Warning (Ability)

Snowfall redirects here. For the location in Pokémon Channel, see Mt. Snowfall. Snow Warning (Japanese: ゆきふらし Snowfall) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature Ability of Snover and Abomasnow. Snow Warning summons a hailstorm in battle as soon as a Pokémon with Snow Warning enters the battle. Its effects are the same as Hail, but instead of lasting for five turns, it lasts for the whole battle until replaced. If a Pokémon with Snow Warning is sent out in the same turn as another Pokémon whose Ability affects the weather, the slower Pokémon's Ability will override the faster Ability. The hail will last only for five turns. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding an Icy Rock. If heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are present, Snow Warning will fail to activate. Snow Warning now summons a snowstorm instead of hail. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, Snow Warning changes the weather to Hail upon entering a floor, and then every subsequent 36 turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Snow Warning changes the weather to hail upon entering a floor. Hail lasts a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66) before clearing. After the weather has cleared, Snow Warning will again activate after waiting a certain number of turns (in multiples of 66). In Pokémon UNITE, Snow Warning is Alolan Ninetales's Ability. It causes snow to fall on an enemy, dealing damage to it and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. Boosted attacks and moves (except Aurora Veil) sling snow, and hitting the same target with snow multiple times will freeze it for 1s. This Ability has an 8s cooldown. Candice's Abomasnow and Snover are revealed to have Snow Warning as their Ability. Just like the move Hail debuted one generation after all three other weather moves (Sunny Day, Rain Dance, and Sandstorm), Snow Warning debuted one generation after the three other weather-summoning Abilities (Drought, Drizzle, and Sand Stream).

Title: Honey Gather (Ability)

Honey Gather (Japanese: みつあつめ Honey Gather) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Combee. After winning a battle, any Pokémon in the player's party with Honey Gather that is not already holding an item may collect Honey, similar to Pickup, even if it did not participate in the battle and/or cannot battle. The chance for a Pokémon with this Ability to pick up Honey depends on its level, starting at 5% if the Pokémon is between levels 1 and 10, and going up by 5% every ten levels, ending at a 50% chance at levels 91-100. In the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers series and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, Honey Gather will increase the chance of finding Nectar in Treasure Boxes. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the Pokémon will have a chance of finding Nectar when moving to a different floor of a dungeon. All Pokémon that can have Honey Gather can learn Sweet Scent. Honey Gather is the first signature Ability to be exclusive to a not fully evolved Pokémon. It is also one of only four Abilities with this distinction, the others being Battery, Wimp Out, and Ball Fetch.

Title: Frisk (Ability)

Frisk (Japanese: おみとおし Unobstructed Sight) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Frisk allows the Pokémon to see the opponent's held item upon entering battle. If the foe is holding an item, a message identifying the item will be shown right after the Pokémon with Frisk enters the battle. If the foe is not holding an item, no message will appear. In a Double or Triple Battle, an unidentified opponent is randomly chosen and its held item revealed. The item revealed may be from a non-adjacent opponent. Frisk now identifies the held items of all opposing Pokémon, regardless of position, in the order of left to right from that team's perspective. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Typhlosion's Hidden Ability is Flash Fire instead of Frisk. Blue's Pumpkaboo was revealed to have Frisk as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Caitlin's Gothitelle, Sird's Banette, and Professor Oak's Stantler, Antch, were revealed to have Frisk as their Ability.

Title: Reckless (Ability)

Reckless (Japanese: すてみ Life-Risking) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature Ability of Hitmonlee. Reckless increases the power of moves that have recoil or crash damage by 20%, except Struggle. Because recoil damage is proportional to damage dealt, Pokémon with Reckless will also take increased recoil damage when using moves boosted by Reckless. The table below lists the moves affected by Reckless, as well as the Pokémon that can have Reckless and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Reckless. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Reckless by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In the Generation V games, Starly has no Hidden Ability, but a Starly with its Hidden Ability flag set will evolve into Staravia with its Hidden Ability Reckless and can produce Starly with their Hidden Ability flag set when bred. A Starly with its Hidden Ability flag set will have its Ability changed to Reckless when transferred to Pokémon Bank. In Pokémon Black and White, Blue-Striped Basculin have Reckless as their second standard Ability; however, a Blue-Striped Basculin with Rock Head can be obtained from an in-game trade in White. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, wild Blue-Striped Basculin have Rock Head as their second standard Ability, but Blue-Striped Basculin bred in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 have Reckless as their second standard Ability. In Generation VI, Blue-Striped Basculin have Rock Head as their second standard Ability, and Blue-Striped Basculin with Reckless transferred to Pokémon Bank have their Ability changed to Rock Head. In Explorers of Time and Darkness and Explorers of Sky, Reckless increases the damage of affected moves by 50%. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the damage and recoil damage (including crash damage in the case of Jump Kick missing) of these moves is increased by 20%. The Ability does not affect the moves Struggle or Final Gambit. Alder's Bouffalant was revealed to have Reckless as its Ability.

Title: Multitype (Ability)

Multitype (Japanese: マルチタイプ Multitype) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature Ability of Arceus. Multitype changes the form and type of a Pokémon with this Ability depending on the Plate attached. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Multitype. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Multitype. Multitype cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Multitype cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas, or traded by Wandering Spirit. The item-removing effects of Thief, Covet, Trick, Switcheroo, and Knock Off will not work on a Pokémon with Multitype, regardless of what item it is holding. When a Pokémon transforms into Arceus, it becomes the same form and type as the target Arceus. If the transformed Pokémon is holding a Plate that is different from the target's held Plate, it then immediately changes to the form and type corresponding to that Plate; if it is not holding a Plate, it immediately changes to Normal Arceus (unless it transformed into Normal Arceus). If a Pokémon transforms into Arceus, the Pokémon will now be in the same form as the target Arceus, regardless of its own held item. Multitype no longer has an effect on items; instead, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Arceus if they would cause it to hold a Plate or take a Plate it already holds. Multitype will also change Arceus's type and form if it holds a type-specific Z-Crystal. If the user Terastallizes, the effects of Multitype will be nullified. The ability exists within the data of Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky in a non-functional state, and only keeps its name and description in the Japanese version. This description would eventually see use in the WiiWare games. In Super Mystery Dungeon, a Pokémon with Multitype and all of its teammates' moves deal additional damage as if they had the same-type attack bonus. Type-effectiveness for the moves still apply normally.

Title: Flower Gift (Ability)

Flower Gift (Japanese: フラワーギフト Flower Gift) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature Ability of Cherrim. During harsh sunlight, Flower Gift increases the Attack and Special Defense stats of the Pokémon with this Ability and its allies by 50%. Flower Gift is not responsible for changing Cherrim from Overcast Form into Sunshine Form. Along with its previous effect, Flower Gift now changes Cherrim from Overcast Form to Sunshine Form if the weather becomes harsh sunlight while Cherrim is in battle, or if Cherrim is sent into battle while the weather is harsh sunlight. If Cherrim loses Flower Gift or Flower Gift is suppressed (such as by Gastro Acid), it will revert to its Overcast Form, unless it was Dynamaxed at the time; if a Dynamaxed Sunshine Form Cherrim loses Flower Gift, it will remain in Sunshine Form even after it ceases to be Dynamaxed. Role Play fails if the target has the Ability Flower Gift. Entrainment fails if the user has the Ability Flower Gift. Flower Gift cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, Receiver, or Wandering Spirit. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, when Flower Gift is active, the team's Attack and Special Defense is boosted by one stage each. Although Abilities do not occur in gameplay in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Cherrim's Sunshine Form has boosted base stats in this game only, to simulate Flower Gift.

Title: Bad Dreams (Ability)

Bad Dreams (Japanese: ナイトメア Nightmare) is an Ability introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature Ability of Darkrai. At the end of each turn, each adjacent sleeping opponent takes damage equal to 1/8 of its maximum HP. Bad Dreams inflicts damage after a Pokémon that is drowsy due to Yawn falls asleep (and thus inflicts damage to a Pokémon the same turn it falls asleep due to drowsiness). Bad Dreams applies after a Pokémon has the opportunity to be woken up by Hydration, Shed Skin, or Healer. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Abilities do not occur in normal gameplay. However, during the Rogue Mega Evolution battle against Darkrai, drowsy Pokémon will take damage equal to 1/25 of their maximum HP every second. When Darkrai Rogue Mega Evolves in the second phase of the fight, the damage increases to 1/16 of maximum HP and occurs more frequently. Darkrai does not retain this effect when caught. At the end of each turn, enemy Pokémon in the same room with a sleep-related status condition (other than Yawning) will receive 15 points of HP damage. Bad Dreams is the last Generation IV Ability in index number order. This Ability's Japanese name is the English name of a move with a similar effect. In Japanese and English, this Ability shares its name with Mega Darkrai's category.

Title: Pickpocket (Ability)

Pickpocket (Japanese: わるいてぐせ Bad Sticky Fingers) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the Pokémon with this Ability will steal the held item of the attacking Pokémon. It will not activate if the Pokémon with this Ability already has a held item. It will not activate if the Pokémon with this Ability is knocked out by that move. Items stolen during Trainer battles will not be kept after the battle. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), the item will not be stolen until after the final strike. If multiple Pokémon with this Ability are hit by the same move that made contact, Pickpocket will activate for the fastest one that does not already have an item. Pickpocket activates after Magician and the Sticky Barb, and after Thief and Covet steal a held item. It also activates after the user consumes a single-use item due to the attack that hit it, such as a Focus Sash. Consequently, the Pokémon that has Pickpocket will always end up with the item. Pickpocket also activates after Knock Off, Bug Bite, and Pluck, meaning that the stolen item will not be lost, and if it does lose its item due to these moves it can immediately steal another. The Life Orb and Shell Bell will activate before being stolen. The King's Rock and Razor Fang can still make the Pokémon with Pickpocket flinch even if stolen. Wild Pokémon cannot steal the player's Pokémon's held items. Pickpocket cannot steal from a Pokémon with Sticky Hold. It cannot steal Mail or a Z-Crystal. It cannot steal a Griseous Orb if either Pokémon is Giratina, a Plate if either Pokémon is Arceus, a memory if either Pokémon is Silvally, a Drive if either Pokémon is Genesect, a Mega Stone if either Pokémon can Mega Evolve using it, a Blue Orb if either Pokémon is Kyogre, a Red Orb if either Pokémon is Groudon, the Rusted Sword if either Pokémon is Zacian, the Rusted Shield if either Pokémon is Zamazenta, or Booster Energy if either Pokémon has the Ability Protosynthesis or Quark Drive. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Sneasel's Hidden Ability is Poison Touch instead of Pickpocket. Pickpocket is the first Generation V Ability in index number order.

Title: Sheer Force (Ability)

Sheer Force (Japanese: ちからずく Sheer Force) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Sheer Force raises the base power of all damaging moves that have any additional effects by approximately 30% (a multiplier of 5325/4096), but their additional effects are ignored. Sheer Force boosts Order Up even if Commander is not activated, and increases to stats (if any) apply normally. Reducing the target's stats, increasing the user's stats, inflicting a status condition on the target (volatile or otherwise, but excluding being bound), and causing the target to flinch are all considered additional effects, so damaging moves that have a chance (up to and including a 100% chance) to cause these effects will have their power increased, in exchange for ignoring whatever chance they had to cause these effects. Furthermore, Anchor Shot, Ceaseless Edge, Eerie Spell, Genesis Supernova, Secret Power, Sparkling Aria, Spirit Shackle, and Stone Axe are explicitly considered to have added effects that can be removed by Sheer Force. However, Thousand Waves, whose effect is otherwise identical to Anchor Shot and Spirit Shackle, is not. Sheer Force does not consider recoil or decreasing the user's own stats to be additional effects. Properties of moves—such as having a high critical-hit ratio, being unable to miss, having variable power or powering up, or having a charging turn, Remove screens (Reflect, Light Screen, Aurora Veil), among others—are not considered additional effects. Moves that have one of these properties in addition to an additional effect will be powered up and only the additional effect will be negated. For example, Flare Blitz inflicts recoil damage to the user, but also has an additional effect to burn; if the user has Sheer Force, Flare Blitz's damage will be boosted by 30% and the user will take recoil damage, but it cannot burn the target. Effects of Fling caused by holding specific items are not considered additional effects for the purposes of Sheer Force. Scale Shot is not considered to have additional effects for the purposes of Sheer Force. If (and only if) a move is boosted by the effect of Sheer Force, several effects that normally happen after attacking will be skipped. This includes the effects of Eject Button, Red Card, Shell Bell, Kee Berry, and Maranga Berry; the recoil damage from Life Orb; the Abilities Color Change, Pickpocket, Wimp Out, Emergency Exit, Berserk, and Anger Shell; as well as Meloetta's opportunity to switch forms if it acquires Sheer Force and uses Relic Song. Other effects are not negated this way; therefore, if a Pokémon with Sheer Force holding a Life Orb uses a move boosted by Sheer Force, it will gain the passive damage boost (because it isn't a secondary effect of the move nor is it on the list of skipped effects), but the Pokémon will not be damaged by the Life Orb. Sheer Force does not affect Max Moves, neither powering them up nor removing their secondary effects. The table below lists the moves affected by Sheer Force, as well as the Pokémon that can have Sheer Force and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Sheer Force. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Sheer Force by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. Sheer Force does not have an effect outside of battle. The Zen Mode form of Darmanitan inherits all of Standard Mode's Abilities upon transformation; however, it can only transform if it has the Ability Zen Mode. Therefore, Sheer Force is unobtainable. Sheer Force raises the power of all damaging moves that have any additional effects by 20%, but their additional effects are ignored. In A Cold Reception, Drayden's Druddigon was mentioned to have Sheer Force as its Ability. In volume 44, Black's Braviary, Brav, was revealed to have Sheer Force as his Ability. N's Gurdurr was revealed to have Sheer Force as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. When this Ability was first revealed in CoroCoro Comic, it was named ちからづく (Invigorate) in Japanese. In the games, it is named ちからずく (Sheer Force) in Japanese. Both have the same pronunciation, but different spelling. Formerly, Sheer Force would boost Jet Punch, despite the fact that this move has no additional effects. This was patched later on. Despite Electro Shot not having any secondary effects, it is boosted by Sheer Force, due to the flag being set for it internally. This flag is also set for the moves Drum Beating, Pyro Ball, Breaking Swipe, Apple Acid, Grav Apple, Spirit Break, and Strange Steam, despite their "move quality" values internally being values that would get a boost from Sheer Force nonetheless.

Title: Contrary (Ability)

Contrary (Japanese: あまのじゃく Amanojaku) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. This Ability inverts all changes to the stat stages of a Pokémon with this Ability; if an effect would lower a stat, it is increased instead, and if an effect would increase a stat, it is decreased instead. Effects that change a Pokémon's stats without affecting stat stages, such as Guts and paralysis, are not affected by Contrary. This also applies to self-inflicted changes, such as Curse and Leaf Storm. This Ability only inverts the changes when they are applied; it does not passively cause all existing changes to reverse; therefore, if the Ability Contrary is no longer in effect or the stats are passed by Baton Pass, all existing stat stage changes remain the same. Stats passed by Baton Pass onto a Pokémon with Contrary are not reversed. Mist (including from Guard Spec.) takes into account Contrary's inversion before determining whether to block the stat change. For example, if a Pokémon with Contrary is targeted by String Shot while protected by Mist, it will gain Speed; if a Pokémon with Contrary is targeted by Swagger while protected by Mist, its Attack will not be changed. If a Pokémon with Contrary uses Belly Drum, its Attack will be lowered to -6 stages (although the message will still say that the user maximized its Attack); if the user's Attack is already at -6 stages, Belly Drum will still deduct HP. Even if the user has Contrary, Belly Drum fails if the user's Attack is already at +6. If a move used by a Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, or Turboblaze would change a stat stage of a Pokémon with Contrary, the change will not be inverted. Flower Veil takes into account Contrary's inversion before determining whether to block the stat change. Stat boosts granted by O-Powers used by other players are still inverted. Stat stage increases caused by the Z-Power effects of status Z-Moves are not inverted by Contrary. However, the stat stage increases as a result of Extreme Evoboost and Clangorous Soulblaze are inverted. If a target with Contrary is affected by Strength Sap, even if its Attack stat is at +6 stages, Strength Sap will restore the user's HP by up to the target's effective Attack stat value at +5 stages. If a Pokémon with Contrary is hit with a Max Move that would lower stats, or uses a Max Move that would raise stats, the change will be inverted, but the message describing the stat change will not be displayed. Contrary's Japanese name refers to the Amanojaku, a creature in Japanese folklore that does the opposite of what it is ordered to do.

Title: Unnerve (Ability)

Unnerve (Japanese: きんちょうかん Tension) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Unnerve causes opposing Pokémon to be unable to eat their own held Berries. However, it does not prevent usage of Natural Gift. When an Unnerve user switches in, the Ability displays a message. If there are entry hazards, then they activate after the message. Wild Pokémon are 1.2× as likely to answer calls for help when facing a Pokémon with Unnerve. It shares this effect with Intimidate and Pressure. Unnerve does not prevent opposing Pokémon from eating held Berries when the move Teatime is used. In the Mystery Dungeon series, Unnerve prevents adjacent enemies from eating food items or consuming health drinks. In volume 44, Black's Galvantula, Tula, was revealed to have Unnerve as his Ability.

Title: Defiant (Ability)

Defiant (Japanese: まけんき Competitive Spirit) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a stat of a Pokémon with this Ability is lowered by an opponent, its Attack is increased by two stages. Defiant will not activate if the Pokémon with this Ability lowers its own stats (such as with Close Combat) or if its stats are lowered by an ally, but will activate if its stats are lowered as a result of its barrier being broken in a Max Raid Battle. If multiple stats are lowered (such as by Memento or Venom Drench), Defiant activates for each stat lowered. If one stat is lowered by more than one stage (such as by Charm or Eerie Impulse), Defiant will only trigger once. Defiant activates before a held White Herb. If the Pokémon no longer has any negative stat stages after Defiant is applied, the White Herb will not have the chance to activate. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Braviary's Hidden Ability is Defiant instead of Tinted Lens. Prior to Generation IX, Piplup, Prinplup, and Empoleon had Defiant instead of Competitive. Grimsley's Bisharp is revealed to have Defiant as its Ability. This Ability can trigger a harmless text glitch when activated in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity.

Title: Defeatist (Ability)

Defeatist (Japanese: よわき Timid) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Archen and Archeops. Defeatist halves the user's Attack and Special Attack stats when their HP is equal to or less than half of its maximum. Defeatist decreases the power of the Pokémon's moves by 1/3 when its HP is equal to or less than half of its maximum. N's Archeops was revealed to have Defeatist as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. In Pokémon Rumble, Skittish is a Special Trait variant of this Ability, lowering the damage done to enemy Pokémon when HP is low.

Title: Cursed Body (Ability)

Cursed Body (Japanese: のろわれボディ Cursed Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a damaging move, there is a 30% chance that the Cursed Body will disable that move of the attacking Pokémon for 4 turns (including the turn Cursed Body activates). Struggle cannot be disabled. Cursed Body can activate even if the attacker is behind a substitute or if the Pokémon with Cursed Body is knocked out, but will not activate if the attack hits the substitute of the Pokémon with Cursed Body. If Cursed Body disables a multistrike move before it has finished all of its hits, it will not prevent the other hits from being executed. Cursed Body can disable a move that calls another move if the called move dealt damage. If a Pokémon uses a damaging Z-Move on a Pokémon with Cursed Body, that damaging Z-Move can be disabled (with no effect on the base move), temporarily preventing it from being used twice with the effect of Rotom Powers, but otherwise having no tangible effect. However, if Cursed Body would disable a status Z-Move (such as Z-Nature Power), the base status move will be disabled. Prior to Generation VII, Gengar had Levitate instead of Cursed Body. X's Gengar, Garma, was revealed to have Cursed Body as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. A Team Plasma Grunt's Frillish was revealed to Cursed Body as her Ability.

Title: Healer (Ability)

If you were looking for the Special Ability in Pokémon Battle Trozei, see List of Special Abilities in Pokémon Battle Trozei. Healer (Japanese: いやしのこころ Healing Heart) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. At the end of each turn, Healer has a 30% chance of curing an adjacent ally's status condition. If the Pokémon has multiple adjacent allies with status conditions, it has an independent 30% chance of curing each one, and can cure more than one in the same turn. If it cures a status condition, it does so before burn or poison damage is dealt on that turn. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Incarnate Forme Enamorus's Ability is Healer instead of Cute Charm. White's Alomomola, Nancy, was revealed to have Healer as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book.

Title: Friend Guard (Ability)

Friend Guard (Japanese: フレンドガード Friend Guard) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Friend Guard reduces the damage that other allied Pokémon receive from attacks (from any Pokémon) by 25%. It does not reduce the damage dealt by moves that deal direct damage. It does not affect the Pokémon with the Ability itself. If multiple of a Pokémon's allies have Friend Guard, Friend Guard stacks multiplicatively. For example, if both of a Pokémon's allies have Friend Guard in a Triple Battle, the damage that that Pokémon receives is multiplied by 9/16 (56.25%), which is a damage reduction of 43.75%.

Title: Weak Armor (Ability)

Weak Armor (Japanese: くだけるよろい Broken Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a physical move, its Defense is decreased by one stage and its Speed is increased by one stage. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a physical multistrike move (such as Fury Swipes), each hit activates this Ability.

Title: Heavy Metal (Ability)

Heavy Metal (Japanese: ヘヴィメタル Heavy Metal) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Doubles the weight of the Pokémon with this Ability. Autotomize is applied before other weight-modifying effects, including Heavy Metal. Heavy Metal is the only effect that can cause a Pokémon's weight to exceed 999.9 kg. This has no effect on the Heavy Ball, which uses the Pokémon's species' weight rather than its current weight. In Pokémon UNITE, Heavy Metal is Duraludon's Ability. It prevents the user from being thrown or shoved by the first attempt to throw or shove them.

Title: Light Metal (Ability)

Light Metal (Japanese: ライトメタル Light Metal) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Halves the weight of the Pokémon with this Ability, rounded down to the nearest tenth (e.g., Metang, normally weighing 202.5 kg, will weigh 101.2 kg if it has Light Metal). Autotomize is applied before other weight-modifying effects, including Light Metal. A Pokémon's weight cannot be reduced below 0.1 kg. This has no effect on the Heavy Ball, which uses the Pokémon's species' weight rather than its current weight. Due to the way damage is calculated for Grass Knot and Low Kick, Metagross will take maximum damage from these moves even with Light Metal.

Title: Multiscale (Ability)

Multiscale (Japanese: マルチスケイル Multiscale) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Multiscale reduces damage taken from damage-dealing moves by half when at maximum HP. It does not reduce the amount of HP taken from moves that deal direct damage. When hit with a multistrike move at maximum HP, only the first hit will have its damage reduced. All further hits deal full damage. In Pokémon UNITE, Multiscale is Dragonite's Ability, after evolving from Dragonair. It reduces the damage received by the user by 20% for 2.5s. This Ability can be triggered every 15 seconds.

Title: Toxic Boost (Ability)

Toxic Boost (Japanese: どくぼうそう Poison Rampage) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Zangoose. While the Pokémon with this Ability is poisoned or badly poisoned, the power of its physical moves is increased by 50%. Zangoose having Toxic Boost appears to directly reference its long-standing feud with Seviper, its Poison-type rival.

Title: Flare Boost (Ability)

Flare Boost (Japanese: ねつぼうそう Thermal Runaway) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Drifloon and Drifblim. While the Pokémon with this Ability is burned, the power of its special moves is increased by 50%. Since the only Pokémon capable of having Flare Boost are Drifloon and Drifblim, Pokémon based on balloons, its effect is likely a reference to hot air balloons using burners to heat up, inflate, and fly.

Title: Harvest (Ability)

Harvest redirects here. For the island in the Decolore Islands, see Harvest Island. If you were looking for the different types of harvests in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, see Jubilife Village → Farm. Harvest (Japanese: しゅうかく Harvest) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is exclusively a Hidden Ability. If the Pokémon has used a Berry, there is a 50% chance of it being restored at the end of each turn. The held Berry is remembered even if it is not restored or if the Pokémon has switched out. Harvest will always activate in harsh sunlight. Harvest can recover Berries consumed by Fling and Natural Gift; however, Harvest can neither recover Berries transferred to another Pokémon, Berries destroyed by Incinerate, Berries knocked off with Knock Off, or Berries eaten with Bug Bite or Pluck nor restore a Berry if it is collected by a Pokémon with Pickup. If more than one Pokémon has Pickup or Harvest, the faster Pokémon will restore an item first. A single Pokémon's Harvest will not activate more than once per turn. If the held Berry is consumed immediately after it is restored, Harvest will not be able to restore it again until the next turn. Harvest can recover Berries consumed that were originally another Pokémon's, but transferred to the Pokémon with Harvest. However, a Pokémon may only have one consumed item (including non-Berries) at a time; if a Pokémon consumes a Berry, obtains another item and consumes it, the original consumed Berry cannot be restored, even if the second item is restored and swapped away. If the Pokémon with Harvest obtains an item after consuming a Berry, Harvest can still restore the old Berry as long as the Pokémon has no held item and did not consume any other items (including non-Berries) since consuming the old Berry. Berries held by the target of Bug Bite or Pluck do not count as the user's last consumed item, and cannot be restored by the user's Harvest. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, if a Pokémon with Harvest is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), there is a 51% chance the game will force an encounter with a Grass-type Pokémon, if one is possible. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the chance is 50%. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this Ability has no effect outside of battle, with its former field function effectively being replaced by Meal Powers.

Title: Telepathy (Ability)

Telepathy redirects here. For Pokémon who are able to talk telepathically in human language, see Talking Pokémon. Telepathy (Japanese: テレパシー Telepathy) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. A Pokémon with Telepathy avoids damaging moves used by its allies. This includes attacks with multiple targets (such as Discharge), attacks exclusively targeting an ally with Telepathy (such as Thunderbolt), and attacks that could potentially heal an ally with Telepathy (such as Pollen Puff and Present). However, it is unprotected from its allies' status moves (such as Teeter Dance or Confuse Ray). When Telepathy prevents an attack from hitting, the message "<name> avoids attacks by its ally Pokémon!" will be displayed. In The Rising Volt Tacklers vs. The Explorers!, Spinel's Beheeyem was revealed to have Telepathy as its Ability through its use of Skill Swap. Henry's Oranguru, Fanguru, was revealed to have Telepathy as his Ability. Colress's Beheeyem was revealed to have Telepathy as his Ability. Telepathy is the most common Ability to have as a Hidden Ability.

Title: Moody (Ability)

Moody (Japanese: ムラっけ Caprice) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is exclusively a Hidden Ability. At the end of each turn, Moody raises one of the stats of the Pokémon with this Ability by two stages (at random), then decreases another stat by one stage (at random). Moody will not attempt to lower a stat that is already at -6 or attempt to increase a stat that is already at +6. Moody will not select the same stat to lower as it raised. If all stats are already at +6, Moody will only decrease one random stat; likewise, if all stats are already at -6, Moody will only increase one random stat. Moody can select the Pokémon's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed, accuracy, or evasion.

Title: Overcoat (Ability)

Overcoat (Japanese: ぼうじん Dustproof) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. A Pokémon with Overcoat does not take damage from the weather conditions sandstorm and hailstorm. Overcoat now also protects from powder and spore moves, as well as Effect Spore. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Sliggoo's and Goodra's Ability is Overcoat instead of Shell Armor. Six of the Pokémon able to have this Ability are already immune to one of the damage-dealing weather conditions by virtue of their type (Seven if Wormadam's Sandy and Trash Cloaks are counted as separate Pokémon). Four of the Pokémon able to have this Ability are already immune to powder moves by virtue of their type.

Title: Poison Touch (Ability)

Poison Touch (Japanese: どくしゅ Underhanded Trick) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. If a Pokémon with this Ability uses a move that makes contact, there is a 30% chance the target will become poisoned. In Japanese versions of Pokémon Black and White, this is a 20% chance instead. This chance applies independently of any moves that may have a chance to poison the target with their own effect. If the attack's target holds a status condition-curing Berry, it is possible for a move's natural effect to inflict a status condition which the target's held item will then cure, only for the target to then be poisoned by Poison Touch. Poison Touch's chances also apply independently for each hit of a multistrike move. Poison Touch can poison a target hit by Dragon Tail or Circle Throw. Poison Touch can poison a target with Mummy before Mummy overwrites Poison Touch. Pokémon with Immunity, Shield Dust, or (during harsh sunlight) Leaf Guard cannot be poisoned by Poison Touch, unless the contact-making move is Sunsteel Strike. In a link battle including a Japanese version of Pokémon Black or White and non-Japanese version of Black and White (or any version of Black 2 or White 2), the chance to poison is determined by the game of the player with the Pokémon that has the Ability Poison Touch. As such, a Pokémon with Poison Touch owned by the player of a Japanese version of Pokémon Black or White will have a 20% chance to poison, whereas players of Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 and non-Japanese versions of Pokémon Black and White will have a 30% chance. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Sneasel's Hidden Ability is Poison Touch instead of Pickpocket. Moon's Alolan Grimer was revealed to have Poison Touch as his Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. This Ability's Japanese, Korean, and Chinese names are a pun; 毒手 Dokushu is a figure of speech meaning treachery or an underhanded scheme, but the individual characters 毒 and 手 literally mean "poison" and "hand/touch", respectively.

Title: Regenerator (Ability)

Regenerator (Japanese: さいせいりょく Regenerative Power) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Regenerator restores 33% of the Pokémon's maximum HP upon switching out. This includes through the use of moves that switch the user out, such as Baton Pass and Volt Switch, and moves used by opposing Pokémon that force it to switch, such as Whirlwind and Dragon Tail. This effect will occur if Regenerator is the Pokémon's Ability in battle when it switches out and is not suppressed; a Pokémon that obtained the Ability with Trace or Role Play will restore HP when it switches out, whereas a Pokémon which has Regenerator but has been affected by Gastro Acid will not. Heal Block does not prevent Regenerator from restoring HP. Regenerator restores 20% of the Pokémon's max HP when the Pokémon moves to a new floor.

Title: Big Pecks (Ability)

Big Pecks (Japanese: はとむね Pigeon Breast) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Big Pecks prevents other Pokémon from lowering the Defense stat stage of the Pokémon with this Ability. It does not prevent the Pokémon with this Ability from lowering its own Defense, such as by using Shell Smash. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e., resetting) positive stat changes. Effects that decrease Defense without using stat stages, such as Guard Swap, Heart Swap, or Guard Split, are unaffected by Big Pecks. This Ability can be ignored by Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, and Turboblaze. White's Vullaby, Barbara, and Y's Fletchling, Fletchy, were revealed to have Big Pecks as their Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Skyla's Unfezant and Cheren's Unfezant were revealed to have Big Pecks as their Ability. The name "Big Pecks" is a pun, referring to both pecking with a beak and the pectoralis major, a.k.a. "pecs", the primary muscles in the chest. Similarly, Big Pecks's Japanese name, Hatomune, can also be taken to mean "a proud heart".

Title: Sand Rush (Ability)

Sand Rush (Japanese: すなかき Sand Paddle) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. During a sandstorm, the Speed stat of Pokémon with this Ability is doubled. A Pokémon with this Ability will take no damage from the sandstorm if it otherwise would. During a sandstorm, in addition to not taking damage from a sandstorm, Sand Rush allows the use of a move twice in a turn, consuming only 1 PP. Clay's Excadrill is revealed to have Sand Rush as its Ability.

Title: Wonder Skin (Ability)

Wonder Skin (Japanese: ミラクルスキン Miracle Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Wonder Skin lowers the accuracy of status moves used against the Pokémon with this Ability to 50%. If the move's accuracy is already 50% or less, it does not change. Other effects may still be able to modify the accuracy after Wonder Skin's effect. Wonder Skin does not affect moves without an accuracy check, or moves used by Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, or Turboblaze. Unlike Abilities that provide complete protection against status changes (e.g. Immunity or Keen Eye), the "Pokémon's Ability" message is not displayed when Wonder Skin takes effect.

Title: Analytic (Ability)

Analytic (Japanese: アナライズ Analyze) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. If a Pokémon with Analytic executes its move after all other Pokémon have made their move, the power of its move is increased by 30% (approximated as a factor of 5325/4096). In a Triple Battle, this means that if the Pokémon with Analytic is targeting a Pokémon in a flank position that chooses to switch with its ally in the middle, its move's power will always be normal when it attacks the Pokémon that is shifted into the flank position; but if the Pokémon with Analytic targets a Pokémon in the middle whose ally on a flank chooses to shift into the middle position, its move's power still depends on whether the Pokémon that was in the middle (and is now on a flank) has acted when the Pokémon with Analytic uses its move. If another Pokémon faints before it gets a chance to make its move, Analytic's bonus depends on whether that Pokémon would have moved before the user that turn, based on its Speed and the move it chose to use. Modifications to that Speed or to priority caused by paralysis, a held item (such as Power Weight), or an Ability (such as Stall) are not taken into account in Generation VIII, but they are in earlier generations.

Title: Illusion (Ability)

Illusion (Japanese: イリュージョン Illusion) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Zorua, Zoroark, and their Hisuian forms. When a Trainer's Pokémon with Illusion enters battle, Illusion changes the appearance of the Pokémon to that of the last conscious, non-Egg Pokémon in its Trainer's party. If the Pokémon with Illusion was the last conscious non-Egg Pokémon in the party before being switched in, Illusion does not change its appearance. Illusion replicates the appearance (including species, form, and Shininess), nickname (or species name if none), Poké Ball, and gender of the Pokémon it is masquerading as; however, it does not replicate the level of the masqueraded Pokémon. The effect is only aesthetic—effects such as Attract still use the Pokémon's actual gender. On the user interface, an opponent's Pokémon disguised by Illusion will appear to be the type of the Pokémon it is disguised as (even if it is affected by a move such as Soak). The illusion disappears if the Pokémon has its Ability changed or suppressed or if it takes damage from a damaging move. Indirect damage (such as from a Life Orb, weather, status conditions, recoil, etc.) will not break the illusion. If the Pokémon with Illusion is hit by a multistrike move, the illusion will be broken after the first hit. If a Pokémon with Illusion uses a Z-Move, the illusion wears off immediately before using the Z-Move. Role Play fails if the target has the Ability Illusion. Skill Swap fails if either Pokémon has Illusion. Illusion cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. If a Pokémon obtains this Ability with Imposter or Transform, it will not disguise itself. Pokémon cannot transform if disguised by Illusion, nor can it transform into a Pokémon that is disguised by Illusion. Additionally, wild Pokémon can disguise themselves with Illusion under certain circumstances. In Pokémon Black and White, in the special event encounter with a wild Zoroark in Lostlorn Forest, the wild Zoroark will be disguised as Entei, Raikou, or Suicune (depending on the Pokémon that triggered the event). If a wild Pokémon with Illusion successfully calls an ally for help in an SOS Battle, it will disguise itself as the summoned ally. If Illusion would disguise the Pokémon as another Pokémon of the same species, it fails to disguise the Pokémon at all. Illusion can now disguise itself as another Pokémon with Illusion of the same species. If the Pokémon Dynamaxes while disguised as a Pokémon with the Gigantamax Factor, it will Dynamax into the standard form of the Pokémon, not the Gigantamax form. If disguised as Zacian, Zamazenta, or Eternatus, the Pokémon will not be able to Dynamax. In most circumstances, if the Pokémon Terastallizes while disguised, it will not lose its illusion. However, it will Terastallize into its Tera Type rather than the disguised Pokémon's Tera Type. If disguised as Ogerpon or Terapagos, the Pokémon's illusion will fade before it Terastallizes. When disguising as a Pokémon that has already Terastallized, the illusion will not appear to be Terastallized itself. If the last conscious non-Egg Pokémon in the party is a Terastallized Ogerpon or Terapagos, Illusion will not activate when the Pokémon is switched in. Illusion will also not activate if the Pokémon with Illusion is Terastallized and the last Pokémon in the party is Ogerpon or Terapagos. If the Pokémon is out of its Poké Ball and the player starts a battle with a wild Pokémon, Illusion will not activate at the beginning of the match. Illusion will now always be used by Wild Zorua and Zoroark to disguise themselves as another Wild Pokémon in the area, unless the game is reloaded when one has already been spawned. However, it wears off as soon as the battle starts, with the standard Ability activation message popping up. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, the Ability functions similar to the core series games for foe Pokémon. A Pokémon with this Ability can transform into another Pokémon that can be found on the same floor of a Mystery Dungeon. For partner Pokémon, this Ability has no effect. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, leader or ally Pokémon with this Ability transform into Kecleon. An enemy Pokémon with this Ability disguises as another enemy Pokémon that can be found on the same floor. As long as the illusion stays up, the Pokémon receives a 40% increase in the power of its moves. The illusion wears off when the Pokémon with this Ability is directly damaged by a damaging move or when Illusion is negated or replaced, causing the Pokémon with this Ability to appear as its true self. Indirect damage or loss of HP (such as through Substitute, weather, status conditions, traps and so on) will not break Illusion. In Pokémon Conquest, the Ability functions similar to the core series. A Pokémon with Illusion starts a battle with the appearance of one of their ally Pokémon. The Ability will only disguise the Pokémon, not the Warrior that they are linked with (if any). Wild Zorua will always start with Illusion as their default Ability. When entering a wild Pokémon kingdom location, Zorua will appear disguised as a duplicate of one of the other wild Pokémon in the battle preview. For example, if the battle preview shows that one Starly will be present, Zorua might appear as a second Starly, visible only upon starting the battle. A Pokémon's Illusion will wear off when the user makes its first attack; takes direct damage; or in the case of wild Pokémon, when a Warrior initiates the minigame to link with them. However, a disguise can be identified before committing to an attack or link attempt: when previewing damage against a disguised target, the preview will calculate damage according to the target's true typing. Similarly, the link medal on a disguised wild Pokémon will use the link compatibility of their true self, not that of the disguise. If a Pokémon with Illusion is defeated in one hit, they will disappear without breaking Illusion. When Illusion is used by the player's Pokémon, computer-controlled opponents will not be fooled by it, and will act as if the disguise is not applied. In Generation V, if Entrainment is used on a Pokémon with Illusion while it is disguised as another Pokémon, when its Ability activates the banner will state that the Ability belongs to the Pokémon that was used as the disguise. If the Pokémon's Ability is changed again, these messages will correctly state the Pokémon who the Ability belongs to when it activates. Although Abilities do not occur in Pokémon GO, wild Zorua will appear in the game disguised as the player's Buddy Pokémon, alluding to this Ability.

Title: Imposter (Ability)

Imposter (Japanese: かわりもの Changer) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Hidden Ability of Ditto. As soon as the user comes into battle, it transforms into its opponent. Broadly, the target's appearance, including its form, gender, and Shiny status or lack thereof, as well as its types, Ability, moves, stats, and cry are copied; the user retains its own HP, level, nickname, and held item. The user still retains its original appearance and information in the party and summary screens, and its original sprite in the battle menu and the list of moves. The user remains transformed until it switches out, faints, or the battle ends. Imposter will not activate if the opponent is transformed, is disguised with Illusion, is behind a substitute, or is a Starmobile. Imposter only activates when the Pokémon with the Ability is sent out; it does not activate if gained while already on the field, and if it fails to activate when a Pokémon is sent out, it will not activate again until the Pokémon is sent out again. If a Pokémon with Imposter Terastallizes into the Stellar type, Imposter will no longer activate. Imposter cannot be ignored. In Double Battles, Triple Battles, and Battle Royals, Imposter transforms into the opponent in the position directly opposite it. In Horde Encounters, Imposter transforms into the opponent in the rightmost position. In an SOS Battle, Imposter will copy the opponent in the leftmost position. In all cases, if there is no opponent in that position, the Pokémon will not transform. If the raid boss in a Max Raid Battle or Tera Raid Battle has Imposter, it will transform into the host's Pokémon; however, in a Max Raid Battle, the raid boss's Imposter will fail to activate if the host is using Zacian, Zamazenta, or Eternatus. Role Play fails if the target has the Ability Imposter. Entrainment fails if the user has the Ability Imposter. Imposter cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver.

Title: Infiltrator (Ability)

Infiltrator (Japanese: すりぬけ Slip Through) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Moves used by a Pokémon with Infiltrator bypass the effects of targets' Reflect, Light Screen, Safeguard, and Mist. Moves used by a Pokémon with Infiltrator, except Transform and Sky Drop, also bypass the effects of targets' substitutes. Moves used by a Pokémon with Infiltrator also bypass the effects of targets' Aurora Veil. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, if a Pokémon with Infiltrator is in the first place in the party (even if fainted), the chance of generating a random encounter is decreased by 87.5%. In the Generation V games, Litwick, Lampent, and Chandelure have Shadow Tag instead of Infiltrator as their Hidden Ability. However, it is impossible to obtain them with their Hidden Ability in Generation V.

Title: Mummy (Ability)

Mummy (Japanese: ミイラ Mummy) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Yamask and Cofagrigus. When a Pokémon with Mummy is hit by a contact move, the attacker's Ability is changed to Mummy. The attacker regains its original Ability once it is switched out, faints, or the battle ends. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), the attacking Pokémon's Ability will become Mummy after the first strike. If a Pokémon with Rock Head uses a recoil contact move on a Pokémon with Mummy, its Ability will become Mummy, then subsequently it will take recoil damage. If a Pokémon with Parental Bond uses a contact move on a Pokémon with Mummy, the Pokémon's Ability will become Mummy after the first strike, then the current move will continue to strike a second time regardless. If a Pokémon with Skill Link uses a multistrike contact move on a Pokémon with Mummy, the Pokémon's Ability will become Mummy after the first strike, then the current move will continue to strike the maximum number of times regardless. As One, Battle Bond, Comatose, Commander, Disguise, Gulp Missile, Ice Face, Lingering Aroma, Multitype, Power Construct, RKS System, Schooling, Shields Down, Stance Change, Zen Mode, Zero to Hero, and Mummy itself are not affected by Mummy. Gorm's Cofagrigus is revealed to have Mummy as his Ability. The effect of this Ability may be a reference to the Japanese expression ミイラ取りがミイラになる (mīra-tori ga mīra ni naru), meaning "the mummy-taker becomes the mummy".

Title: Moxie (Ability)

Moxie (Japanese: じしんかじょう Overconfident) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with Moxie directly causes another Pokémon (including allies) to faint by using a damaging move, its Attack is increased by one stage. If its Attack is already at +6 stages, Moxie will not activate. Moxie activates after the Pokémon gains Attack from Fell Stinger. If a Pokémon with Moxie defeats a Pokémon with Mummy using a contact move, the Pokémon's Ability will become Mummy before Moxie has the opportunity to activate. Moxie will activate even if the Pokémon fainting ends the battle. If the Pokémon fainting ends the battle, Moxie will not activate. Clay's Krokorok is revealed to have Moxie as its Ability. Litleo and Pyroar are the only Pokémon with Moxie to favor Special Attack over physical Attack, despite the former being its highest stat.

Title: Justified (Ability)

Justified (Japanese: せいぎのこころ Heart of Justice) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with Justified is hit by a Dark-type damaging move, its Attack is increased by one stage. This Ability does not provide immunity or reduction to the damage, nor does it activate from a Dark-type move hitting its Substitute. Dark-type multistrike moves (such as Beat Up) will activate Justified once per strike, increasing the Attack stat that many stages. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Growlithe's and Arcanine's Hidden Ability is Justified instead of Rock Head. Blake's Keldeo, Kelden, is revealed to have Justified as its Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. Justified is the only Ability whose name begins with the letter J. Except in Inverse Battles, no Pokémon with this Ability is weak to the Dark type. Only three Pokémon with this Ability—Growlithe, Arcanine, and Gallade—do not resist Dark-type moves. Gallade is the only Pokémon with Justified with a type that's weak to Dark (Psychic), though its weakness is cancelled out by its Fighting type.

Title: Rattled (Ability)

Rattled (Japanese: びびり Jitter) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a Bug-, Dark-, or Ghost-type damaging move, its Speed is increased by one stage. No immunity is granted to these types of moves, however. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a Bug-, Dark-, or Ghost-type multistrike move, each hit activates this Ability. Rattled now also activates if a Pokémon with this Ability has its stats lowered by Intimidate. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Basculegion's Ability is Rattled instead of Swift Swim. The types that trigger this Ability are all super effective against Psychic-type Pokémon, but no Psychic-type Pokémon can have this Ability.

Title: Magic Bounce (Ability)

Magic Mirror redirects here. For the Pokémon Conquest item, see List of items in Pokémon Conquest → Magic Mirror. Magic Bounce (Japanese: マジックミラー Magic Mirror) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Magic Bounce reflects certain status moves back at the attacker. Reflectable moves match Magic Coat's list of reflectable moves. Moves reflected by Magic Bounce can still miss. If Parting Shot is reflected, the Pokémon that originally used Parting Shot has its stats lowered while the Pokémon with Magic Bounce is switched out. Even if the Pokémon with Magic Bounce is immune to a move due to its type or species (e.g. a Ground-type Pokémon targeted by Thunder Wave, or Dugtrio targeted by Telekinesis), Magic Bounce will still reflect the move. However, it will not activate if the Pokémon with Magic Bounce is protected from that move. Magic Bounce can reflect a move even if the move would fail (e.g. Disable used on a Pokémon that has not used a move or is already disabled) or have no effect on the target (e.g. Feather Dance when the target already has -6 Attack). Magic Bounce does not activate if the move is used by a Pokémon with Teravolt, Turboblaze, or Mold Breaker. Magic Bounce cannot reflect a move that was just reflected by Magic Coat or Magic Bounce. If a Pokémon with this Ability is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move like Fly, Magic Bounce will not activate. If a move targets multiple Pokémon individually (such as Heal Block or Growl), it will still affect each Pokémon that does not have Magic Bounce as normal, then each Pokémon that has Magic Bounce will reflect the move individually. If a move targets an entire side (such as entry hazard moves), if any Pokémon on that side reflects the move with Magic Bounce then the whole side is unaffected; even if multiple Pokémon on that side have Magic Bounce, only one of the Pokémon on that side will have its Magic Bounce activate. Magic Bounce can reflect status Z-Moves (but not their Z-Power effects) and moves used via Dancer or Instruct. If Z-Parting Shot is reflected, the Pokémon switched in does not have its HP restored. In Battle Royals, if multiple Pokemon have Magic Bounce and a hazard-setting move is used, only the fastest Pokemon's Magic Bounce will activate. A Dynamax Pokémon reflecting Parting Shot will still be forced to switch out. Magic Bounce will not activate if the opponent has the Ability Mycelium Might. In Pokémon UNITE, Magic Bounce is Espeon's Ability after evolving. When Espeon would be affected by a hindrance (including slow), the hindrance is negated and Espeon becomes immune to hindrances for a short time. At the same time, this ability deals damage to the enemy that attempted to inflict the hindrance and applies a 30% slow for 1s. Hindrances that have multiple hits, such as Pikachu's Volt Tackle, will have only the first hit negated. This Ability has 45 second cooldown. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Absol, Solsol, was revealed to have Magic Bounce as his Ability when Mega Evolved. No Pokémon has Magic Bounce as a regular Ability, as it is only available as a Hidden Ability or upon Mega Evolution. Magic Bounce is the Ability of three Mega-Evolved Pokémon, tying with Tough Claws for the most common Ability amongst Mega-Evolved Pokémon. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Magic Bounce is the only way to reflect status moves, as Magic Coat cannot be used in those games.

Title: Sap Sipper (Ability)

Sap Sipper (Japanese: そうしょく Herbivorous) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. When a Pokémon with Sap Sipper is hit by a Grass-type move, its Attack is increased by one stage, and the move will have no effect on that Pokémon. Multistrike moves, such as Bullet Seed, will only increase the Pokémon's Attack once. Aromatherapy will not activate Sap Sipper. Sap Sipper will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Grass-type move. Fittingly, most Pokémon with this Ability are herbivore-inspired species.

Title: Prankster (Ability)

Prankster (Japanese: いたずらごころ Prank Desire) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Prankster increases the priority of status moves by one. A move having its priority increased by Prankster does not cause it to be blocked by Quick Guard. Any status moves used by Pokémon with Prankster now can be blocked by Quick Guard. Dark-type Pokémon are now immune to opposing Pokémon's moves that gain priority due to Prankster, including moves called by moves that call other moves (such as Assist and Nature Power) and excluding moves that are repeated as a result of Prankster-affected Instruct or moves that occur earlier than their usual order due to Prankster-affected After You. Ally Dark-type Pokémon are still affected by the user's status moves. Dark-type Pokémon can still bounce moves back with Magic Bounce or Magic Coat; moves that have increased priority due to Prankster which are reflected by Magic Bounce or Magic Coat can affect Dark-type Pokémon, unless the Pokémon that bounced the move with Magic Coat also has Prankster. Moves that target all Pokémon (except Perish Song and Rototiller, which cannot affect Dark-type opponents if boosted by Prankster) and moves that set traps are successful regardless of the presence of Dark-type Pokémon. Status Z-Moves (including Extreme Evoboost) have their priority increased. The table below lists the moves affected by Prankster, as well as the Pokémon that can have Prankster and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Prankster. They may, however, be used after a Pokémon with Prankster learns the move via Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Prankster due to an Ability changing Ability or move. When a status move is used by a Pokémon with Prankster, it will use the move twice in a row on a single turn. This will only consume 1 PP. In Rescue Team DX, moves affected by Prankster have no effect on Dark-type Pokémon.

Title: Sand Force (Ability)

Sand Force (Japanese: すなのちから Sand Force) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. During a sandstorm, Sand Force increases the power of Rock-, Ground-, and Steel-type moves used by the Pokémon with this Ability by 30%. A Pokémon with this Ability will take no damage from the sandstorm if it otherwise would. During a sandstorm, Sand Force increases the power of Rock-, Ground-, and Steel-type moves used by the Pokémon with this Ability by 2-times. A Pokémon with this Ability will take no damage from the sandstorm if it otherwise would.

Title: Iron Barbs (Ability)

Iron Barbs (Japanese: てつのトゲ Iron Thorns) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature Ability of Ferroseed and Ferrothorn. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the attacking Pokémon takes damage equal to 1/8 of its own maximum HP. If Iron Barbs causes both the Pokémon with this Ability and the attacking Pokémon to faint, then the attacking Pokémon will faint first. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit will activate this Ability. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the attacking Pokémon takes damage equal to 1/10 of its own maximum HP. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit will activate this Ability. The Ability does not activate if the move causes the Pokémon with Iron Barbs to faint. Iron Barbs has the same Japanese name as the item Iron Thorn from the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. Its Japanese name is also the same as Iron Thorns's English name.

Title: Zen Mode (Ability)

Zen Mode (Japanese: ダルマモード Daruma Mode) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Darmanitan and one of the signature Abilities of Galarian Darmanitan. If a Darmanitan has this Ability, it is able to change forms in battle, based on its HP. Each form has its own types, base stats, EV yield, height, and weight. This Ability has no effect on any other Pokémon, even one that transforms into Darmanitan. At the end of a turn, if the HP of a Standard Mode Darmanitan with the Ability Zen Mode is 50% HP or less, it will change into its Zen Mode. At the end of a turn, if the HP of a Zen Mode Darmanitan with the Ability Zen Mode is above half, it will change into its Standard Mode. Darmanitan is always in Standard Mode outside of battle. A Zen Mode Darmanitan will change back to Standard Mode when switched out. In Standard Mode, Unovan Darmanitan is Fire-type and Galarian Darmanitan is Ice-type; in Zen Mode, Unovan Darmanitan is dual-type Fire/Psychic and Galarian Darmanitan is dual-type Ice/Fire. If Darmanitan loses Zen Mode or Zen Mode is suppressed with Gastro Acid, it will revert to its Standard Mode and not be able to change form. If Darmanitan gains Zen Mode, at the end of the turn it will change form if its HP is below half. Role Play fails if the target has Zen Mode. Entrainment fails if the user has Zen Mode. Zen Mode cannot be copied by Trace. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has Zen Mode. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Zen Mode. Zen Mode cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver, replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas, or traded by Wandering Spirit. Zen Mode Darmanitan and Galarian Zen Mode Darmanitan are only available with the Hidden Ability Zen Mode, with their regular Abilities left unused. Zen Mode is the only form-changing Hidden Ability. Zen Mode is the most commonly seen Hidden Ability in Pokémon animation and Pokémon Adventures.

Title: Victory Star (Ability)

Victory Star (Japanese: しょうりのほし Victory Star) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Victini. Victory Star increases the accuracy of moves (that are not one-hit knockout moves) used by the Pokémon with this Ability and its allies in battle by approximately 10% (or precisely, a factor of 4506/4096) of their original accuracy. Victory Star can stack and does so multiplicatively (which means if there are two ally Pokémon with this Ability, the accuracy increase is 21%). Victini appears as a Poké Ball Pokémon, after playing 100-Man Smash at least once. It uses Victory Star, which causes fighters (and teammates, if any) who send it out to gain immunity to knockback and have their attack power boosted. Victini returns as a Pokémon summoned from the Poké Ball, where it gives the summoner their Final Smash with Victory Star. A Victini Blake used is revealed to have Victory Star as its Ability. In The Birth of the Best Pokémon Trainer!, Cheren mentioned that Monta's Victini had Victory Star as its Ability but Victini couldn't activate it due to Serperior's Gastro Acid rendering it useless. Victory Star debuted as an Ability in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Victini from the Noble Victories expansion. If a Pokémon with this Ability is in play, after the player flips any coins for an attack, they may ignore all results of the coin flips and repeat the coin flipping process once more. The player may only use one Victory Star Ability each turn. The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Victory Star Ability.

Title: Turboblaze (Ability)

Turboblaze (Japanese: ターボブレイズ Turboblaze) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Reshiram and White Kyurem. When a Pokémon with Turboblaze uses a move, the effects of all Pokémon's ignorable Abilities are ignored for the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies.) For example, a Pokémon with Turboblaze that uses Overheat can hit opponents that have Flash Fire. When a Pokémon with Turboblaze is brought out, the message "<name> is radiating a blazing aura!" will be displayed. Turboblaze no longer ignores Dark Aura and Fairy Aura, though it will still ignore Aura Break. In Volume 51, Black's Reshiram was revealed to have Turboblaze as its Ability.

Title: Teravolt (Ability)

Teravolt (Japanese: テラボルテージ Teravoltage) is an Ability introduced in Generation V. It is the signature Ability of Zekrom and Black Kyurem. When a Pokémon with Teravolt uses a move, the effects of all Pokémon's ignorable Abilities are ignored for the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies.) For example, a Pokémon with Teravolt that uses Thunder can hit opponents that have Lightning Rod. When a Pokémon with Teravolt is brought out, the message "<name> is radiating a bursting aura!" will be displayed. Teravolt no longer ignores Dark Aura and Fairy Aura, though it will still ignore Aura Break. In Volume 51, N's Zekrom was revealed to have Teravolt as its Ability. Teravolt is the last Generation V Ability in index number order.

Title: Aroma Veil (Ability)

Aroma Veil (Japanese: アロマベール Aroma Veil) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Spritzee and Aromatisse. Aroma Veil prevents the Pokémon with this Ability and its allies (including non-adjacent allies) from being afflicted by Taunt, Torment, Encore, Disable, Cursed Body, Heal Block and Psychic Noise, and infatuation. Despite being a move that also prevents the use of moves, Imprison is not affected by this Ability. Psychic Noise will only inflict damage; its secondary effect will not activate against Pokémon with this Ability. Aroma Veil is the first Generation VI Ability in index number order.

Title: Flower Veil (Ability)

Flower Veil (Japanese: フラワーベール Flower Veil) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was one of the signature Abilities of Flabébé's evolutionary line. In Generation VIII, it was one of the signature Abilities of Comfey. Flower Veil prevents the Pokémon with this Ability (if it is Grass-type) and its Grass-type allies (including non-adjacent allies) from having their stats lowered by other Pokémon. Self-inflicted stat reductions, such as from Leaf Storm or Weak Armor, are not prevented. If a Grass-type Pokémon has Contrary, Flower Veil prevents the Pokémon's stats from being lowered after accounting for Contrary. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e., resetting) positive stat changes. Flower Veil also prevents the Pokémon with this Ability (if it is Grass-type) and its Grass-type allies (including non-adjacent allies) from being afflicted by non-volatile status conditions or Yawn. However, it will not prevent a Pokémon from falling asleep if it is already drowsy from Yawn. This Ability has no effect on Rest, the Flame Orb, or the Toxic Orb. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, any Grass-type teammates adjacent to the Pokémon with Flower Veil will not be affected with bad status conditions or have their stats lowered. Contrary to its Ability description, Flower Veil will not affect the user if it is not a Grass type. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Trevor's Florges was revealed to have Flower Veil as her Ability. Despite this Ability only affecting Grass-type Pokémon, none of the Pokémon with this Ability are Grass types; all of them are Fairy types.

Title: Cheek Pouch (Ability)

Cheek Pouch (Japanese: ほおぶくろ Cheek Pouch) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Cheek Pouch restores 33% of the Pokémon's maximum HP when it consumes a Berry, after the effect of the Berry is applied. Cheek Pouch activates even if the Pokémon eats another Pokémon's held Berry via Bug Bite, Pluck, or Fling, but only if the Berry is actually eaten for an effect (i.e. the Berry consumption animation plays). Consuming a Berry through other means (such as Natural Gift, using Fling, or its Trainer giving it a Berry from the Bag) will not trigger Cheek Pouch. Cheek Pouch will not activate if the Pokémon is under the effect of Heal Block. When a Pokémon with this Ability eats a food item, Berry, Seed or health drink, the Pokémon will recover 25 HP. An enemy Pokémon with this Ability will spawn holding a Seed, regardless of whenever or not there are any items available on the floor. Sometimes, it may hold a Tiny Reviver Seed or a Reviver Seed, in which case, the enemy Pokémon will use it upon fainting, turning it into a Plain Seed. In Pokémon UNITE, Cheek Pouch is Greedent's Ability. When the user eats a Berry, they recover HP after receiving the effects of the Berry. At the same time, the user stashes an Oran Berry in its tail. Being hit by a single attack or combination of attacks will cause an Oran Berry to drop from the user's tail. Berries stay on the ground for 10s. Before Generation VIII, all Pokémon with this Ability have Pickup as their other standard Ability.

Title: Protean (Ability)

Protean redirects here. For the item, see Protein. Protean (Japanese: へんげんじざい Protean) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. In Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Kecleon. Immediately before using any move (except Struggle), a Pokémon with Protean as its Ability will change its type to be the same type as the move it is using. Protean always causes the user to become a single-type Pokémon. Because Protean activates prior to executing a move, the user will receive same-type attack bonus on every move it uses (except Struggle and typeless Revelation Dance) regardless of the move's type, and will always hit with the move Toxic. When using a move that calls another move (such as Nature Power), the type of the called move will be considered. When using a move that can change type or if the move has been affected by Electrify or Ion Deluge, the type it changes to will be considered. When using a move that changes the user's type, such as Camouflage, first Protean changes the user's type to the type of the move, then the move will either fail or change the user's type again. When using Curse (unless its type is changed by Electrify), if the user is not already Ghost-type prior to the activation of Protean, Protean will change the user to Ghost-type, then the user will use the Ghost-type effect of Curse on itself (regardless of Follow Me, Rage Powder, or Crafty Shield). Protean will not activate if the execution is interrupted entirely and the move's name isn't announced (such as by the effect of infatuation or confusion), if the move is prevented by Powder, heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, Dazzling, or Queenly Majesty, or if the user is already the same single type as the move being used. Protean will activate even if the move misses, has no effect because of the target's type, or is blocked by a protection move. Protean usually will activate if the move fails. However, these moves check for success before Protean activates, so they prevent Protean from activating if they fail. Counter, Mirror Coat, and Metal Burst (if the user was not hit by an attack) Explosion, Self-Destruct, Mind Blown, and Misty Explosion (if a Pokémon has Damp) Rest (if the user has full HP, is asleep, or has Insomnia, Vital Spirit, or Comatose) Teleport (if the user has no allies or if all allies have fainted) Protection moves (if the user moved last or successfully used a protection move on the previous turn) Destiny Bond (if the user successfully used Destiny Bond on the previous turn) Future Sight and Doom Desire (if the target is currently targeted by Future Sight or Doom Desire) Fake Out, Mat Block, and First Impression (if it is not the user's first turn) Follow Me and Rage Powder (if it is a single battle) Spit Up and Swallow (if the user has no stockpiles) Last Resort (if the user hasn't used all of its other moves, knows only Last Resort, or does not know Last Resort and used the move by calling it) Sucker Punch (if the target has already moved or did not select an attack) Clangorous Soul (if the user doesn't have enough HP to use the move) No Retreat (if the user has already successfully used No Retreat) The user's new type remains in effect until changed again or until the user is switched out; negating or replacing the Ability does not change the user back to their original type. Protean only activates once per switch in. If the user Terastallizes, the effects of Protean will be nullified, and Protean has no effect on Terastallized Pokémon. Together with Shell Armor, these are the only Abilities that more than one first partner Pokémon line can have as their Hidden Ability.

Title: Fur Coat (Ability)

Fur Coat (Japanese: ファーコート Fur Coat) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature Ability of Furfrou. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Alolan Persian. Fur Coat doubles the Defense stat of the Pokémon with this Ability. It has no effect on self-inflicted confusion damage. Fur Coat decreases the damage taken from physical moves by about 20-25%.

Title: Magician (Ability)

Magician redirects here. For the character in Pokémon Adventures, see Magician (Adventures). For the character in Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!, see Magician (TCG GB). Magician (Japanese: マジシャン Magician) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. When a Pokémon with Magician hits another Pokémon with a damaging move, it will steal the held item of the Pokémon that it hit. Magician will not activate if the user already has a held item. Fling, Natural Gift, Future Sight and Doom Desire do not activate the Ability; Present will activate the Ability only if it deals damage. Thief, Covet, Knock Off, Pluck, Bug Bite, and Incinerate will steal or destroy the target's held item before Magician steals it. Sticky Barb transfers with its own effect before Magician can steal it. Magician will not activate if the Pokémon is holding a Gem even if the Gem is consumed when using the move, but will activate if the Pokémon's held Power Herb is consumed when using the move. If a target's consumable held item is triggered by the move (such as a Focus Sash or Lum Berry), it will be consumed before it can be stolen. If a target holds a Focus Band or Rocky Helmet, it can be activated by the move, then be stolen by Magician. If the Pokémon with Magician faints when using the move (such as due to the target's Liquid Ooze or held Rocky Helmet, or due to the Pokémon with this Ability using a recoil move or a move that causes it to faint), Magician will not steal the item. If the move of the Pokémon with Magician triggers Mummy, so that it no longer has the Ability Magician, it cannot steal an item. Magician activates after the last strike of a multistrike move. Magician activates even if the user is switched out by U-turn or Volt Switch or the target is switched out by Dragon Tail or Circle Throw. Pickpocket activates after Magician, so the Pokémon that has Pickpocket will always end up with the item if the move is a contact move. If Meloetta has the Ability Magician (due to Skill Swap etc.) and uses Relic Song, Magician activates before it changes form. It cannot steal from a Pokémon with Sticky Hold, unless the move causes the Pokémon with Sticky Hold to faint. It cannot steal Mail or a Z-Crystal. It cannot steal a Griseous Orb if either Pokémon is Giratina, a Plate if either Pokémon is Arceus, a memory if either Pokémon is Silvally, a Drive if either Pokémon is Genesect, a Mega Stone if either Pokémon can Mega Evolve using it, a Blue Orb if either Pokémon is Kyogre, a Red Orb if either Pokémon is Groudon, the Rusted Sword if either Pokémon is Zacian, the Rusted Shield if either Pokémon is Zamazenta, or Booster Energy if either Pokémon has the Ability Protosynthesis or Quark Drive. In Pokémon UNITE, Magician is Hoopa's Ability. In battles where the map is divided into an ally team side and an opposing team side, the Ability creates a hole under one of the Berries on the opposing team’s side (chosen at random) and warps it to right in front of Hoopa. This Ability does not work while Hoopa is in its Unbound form. A Hoopa Emerald befriended is revealed to have Magician as its Ability. Hoopa is the only Pokémon with Magician to not have Magician as a Hidden Ability. The only Pokémon with the Magician ability are all Generation VI Pokémon.

Title: Bulletproof (Ability)

Bulletproof (Japanese: ぼうだん Bulletproof) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature Ability of Chespin's evolutionary line. Pokémon with Bulletproof are not affected by ball and bomb moves. This even prevents being healed by an ally's Pollen Puff. Due to their English names differing from their Japanese names, the English names of several ball and bomb moves obscure why they are categorized as such. Acid Spray is known as アシッドボム Acid Bomb in Japanese. Aura Sphere is known as はどうだん Wave Bomb in Japanese. Beak Blast is known as くちばしキャノン Beak Cannon in Japanese. Focus Blast is known as きあいだま Fighting Spirit Bullet in Japanese. Octazooka is known as オクタンほう Okutank Cannon in Japanese. Pollen Puff is known as かふんだんご Pollen Ball in Japanese. Rock Wrecker is known as がんせきほう Rock Cannon in Japanese. Searing Shot is known as かえんだん Flame Bomb in Japanese. Despite some moves affected by this Ability having "cannon" in both their English and Japanese names, Spike Cannon, Flash Cannon, Hydro Cannon, Fleur Cannon, Dynamax Cannon, and Armor Cannon are unaffected by it.

Title: Competitive (Ability)

Competitive (Japanese: かちき Determined Spirit) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. When a stat of a Pokémon with this Ability is lowered by an opponent, its Special Attack is increased by two stages. Competitive will not activate if the Pokémon with this Ability lowers its own stats (such as with Close Combat) or if its stats are lowered by an ally. If Special Attack is lowered, it is then raised by Competitive, resulting in a net gain (when lowered by one stage) or no net change (when lowered by two stages). Because there are no moves that lower Special Attack by 3 stages, it is functionally impossible to lower the Special Attack of a Pokémon with Competitive without first suppressing the Ability. If multiple stats are lowered (such as by Memento or Venom Drench) Competitive activates for each stat lowered. Competitive activates before a held White Herb. If the Pokémon no longer has any negative stat stages after Competitive is applied, the White Herb will not have the chance to activate. Prior to Generation IX, Piplup, Prinplup, and Empoleon had Defiant instead of Competitive as their Hidden Ability.

Title: Strong Jaw (Ability)

Strong Jaw (Japanese: がんじょうあご Strong Jaw) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Strong Jaw increases the power of the Pokémon's biting moves by 50%. The table below lists the moves affected by Strong Jaw, as well as the Pokémon that can have Strong Jaw and learn those moves. Strong Jaw increases the power of the Pokémon's biting moves by 20%. The power of Fishious Rend is increased by Strong Jaw, since it is called「エラがみ」Gill Bite in Japanese.

Title: Refrigerate (Ability)

Refrigerate (Japanese: フリーズスキン Freeze Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. From Generation VIII onward, it is the signature Ability of Amaura and Aurorus. Refrigerate causes all Normal-type moves used by the Pokémon to become Ice-type and receive a 30% power boost. Electrify is applied before Refrigerate, so if the Pokémon is affected by Electrify the move becomes Electric-type and does not have its power boosted by Refrigerate. The type-changing effect is applied before Ion Deluge, so if both effects are applying, an originally Normal-type move will end up as a Ice-type move (as it is no longer Normal-type when Ion Deluge would be applied). If Max Strike is selected with Refrigerate, it'll turn into Max Hailstorm when used. If Max Strike is instead used by a Gigantamax Lapras with Refrigerate, it will instead become G-Max Resonance. The table below lists the moves affected by Refrigerate, as well as the Pokémon that can have Refrigerate and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Refrigerate. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Refrigerate by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Rumble World, Mega Glalie has the Refrigerate ability, changing the type of Normal-type moves to Ice. Normal-type moves become Ice type and deal 20-25% more damage. When Nature Power is used, although the Ability activates, the move chosen by Nature Power does not become Ice-type and there is no boost in power.

Title: Sweet Veil (Ability)

Sweet Veil (Japanese: スイートベール Sweet Veil) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature Ability of Swirlix and Slurpuff. Sweet Veil prevents the Pokémon with this Ability and its allies (including non-adjacent allies) from falling asleep. Rest will fail when used by the Pokémon with this Ability or an ally (unless the user has an Ability that ignores other Abilities). Sweet Veil causes Yawn to fail if used on the Pokémon or its allies (including non-adjacent allies), and prevents the Pokémon and its allies already drowsy due to Yawn from falling asleep.

Title: Stance Change (Ability)

Stance Change (Japanese: バトルスイッチ Battle Switch) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature Ability of Aegislash. Stance Change allows Aegislash to switch between its Shield Forme and Blade Forme. Aegislash is always in Shield Forme if it is not battling, and as such, switching out reverts it to Shield Forme. If Shield Forme Aegislash uses a damaging move, it changes to Blade Forme immediately before using the move. If Blade Forme Aegislash uses King's Shield, it changes to Shield Forme immediately before using the move. Status moves other than King's Shield will not change its form. Moves that call other moves, such as Sleep Talk, will not change its form, even if they call a damaging move or King's Shield. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Stance Change. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Stance Change. Stance Change cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Stance Change cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas, or traded by Wandering Spirit. If a Pokémon other than Aegislash obtains Stance Change with Imposter or Transform, the Pokémon will not change forms. If Aegislash attempts to use a move, even if it cannot execute it due to an effect such as a status condition, confusion, or disobedience, Stance Change still activates accordingly. If Aegislash attempts to use a move but cannot execute it due to an effect such as a status condition or confusion, Stance Change does not activate. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Abilities do not occur in normal gameplay. However, Aegislash will change between Shield Forme and Blade Forme under the same circumstances as previous games. Due to the game's real-time combat, Aegislash can be attacked during the form change animation. It is not considered to have changed form until the animation finishes. Stance Change allows Aegislash to switch between its Shield Forme and Blade Forme. If Shield Forme Aegislash uses a damaging move, it changes to Blade Forme immediately before using the move. If Blade Forme Aegislash uses King's Shield, it changes to Shield Forme immediately before using the move. Entering a floor causes Aegislash to change to Shield Forme. This Ability can neither be changed nor sealed. In Pokémon UNITE, Stance Change is Aegislash's Ability. It allows the user to switch between Blade Forme and Shield Forme. Using a blade move changes the user to Blade Forme, which increases the user's movement speed, Attack, and basic attack speed. Using a shield move changes the user to Shield Forme, and its Defense and Special Defense are increased. For a short time after switching from Shield Forme to Blade Forme, the Pokémon's movement speed and basic attack speed are further increased for a short time.

Title: Gale Wings (Ability)

Gale Wings (Japanese: はやてのつばさ Gale Wings) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature Ability of Fletchling's evolutionary line. Gale Wings increases the priority of Flying-type moves by one. Affected Flying-type attacks and offensive status moves can be blocked by Quick Guard. This Ability does not increase the priority of Flying-type Hidden Power, Natural Gift, or Judgment, as they are treated as Normal-type moves before being used. Gale Wings now only activates if the user has full HP when the move is selected. It does not increase the priority of Flying-type Tera Blast. In Pokémon UNITE, Gale Wings is Talonflame's Ability. It increases the user's movement speed by 10% when at 85% HP or above.

Title: Mega Launcher (Ability)

Mega Launcher (Japanese: メガランチャー Mega Launcher) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Since Generation VIII, it is the signature Ability of Clauncher and Clawitzer. Mega Launcher boosts the strength of aura and pulse moves used by a Pokémon with this Ability. Damage-dealing moves are boosted in power by 50%, while Heal Pulse heals 75% of the target's maximum HP rather than the usual 50%, including Z-Heal Pulse. The table below lists the moves affected by Mega Launcher, as well as the Pokémon that can have Mega Launcher and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Mega Launcher. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Mega Launcher by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. Mega Launcher boosts the strength of aura and pulse moves used by a Pokémon with this Ability. Damage-dealing moves are boosted in power by 20%, while Heal Pulse heals 48% of the target's maximum HP rather than the usual 40%. This Ability affects moves containing はどう hadō in their Japanese names, which can be translated as either wave or aura.

Title: Grass Pelt (Ability)

Grass Pelt (Japanese: くさのけがわ Grass Pelt) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature Ability of Skiddo and Gogoat. While Grassy Terrain is active, the Defense of the Pokémon with this Ability is increased by 50%. It does not affect self-inflicted confusion damage. The ability in Pokémon Conquest known as "Grass Cloak" (はっぱのころも Leaf Cloak) possesses a similar effect, where the user will gain a boost in their Defense stat if they were standing on grass.

Title: Symbiosis (Ability)

Symbiosis (Japanese: きょうせい Symbiosis) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was one of the signature Abilities of Flabébé's evolutionary line. In Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Oranguru. If a Pokémon with Symbiosis has a held item, immediately after an ally's item is consumed, the Pokémon with Symbiosis will pass its item to that ally. Symbiosis may pass an item to a non-adjacent ally in a Triple Battle. Symbiosis triggers any time an ally Pokémon consumes its item, whether directly or through the use of Fling or Natural Gift. If a Pokémon eats another Pokémon's Berry with Bug Bite or Pluck and is not holding an item, its ally's Symbiosis will be triggered and give an item to the Pokémon that used that move. An Air Balloon popping will trigger Symbiosis. If multiple Pokémon on the same side of a Triple Battle or Horde Encounter have Symbiosis, then Symbiosis will trigger on the faster Pokémon (even while Trick Room is in effect). Symbiosis will not trigger if an ally's item is moved to a different Pokémon (such as due to Thief or Symbiosis itself), destroyed by Incinerate, or knocked off by Knock Off. If a damage-reducing Berry is consumed in response to an attack, Symbiosis will not activate until after the damage is received. If an item is consumed using Fling or Natural Gift, Symbiosis will not activate until after the move deals damage. Symbiosis cannot transfer a Z-Crystal. It cannot transfer a Griseous Orb if either Pokémon is Giratina, a Plate if either Pokémon is Arceus, a memory if either Pokémon is Silvally, a Drive if either Pokémon is Genesect, a Mega Stone if either Pokémon can Mega Evolve using it, a Blue Orb if either Pokémon is Kyogre, a Red Orb if either Pokémon is Groudon, a Booster Energy if either Pokémon is a Paradox Pokémon (except Koraidon, Miraidon, Gouging Fire, Raging Bolt, Iron Boulder and Iron Crown), or a Mask (Cornerstone Mask, Hearthflame Mask or Wellspring Mask) if either Pokémon is Ogerpon. If the ally of a Pokémon with Symbiosis consumes a Gem by using a move, Symbiosis activates immediately. If the item would normally affect the power of the triggering move, then the new item's effect will be applied immediately; if a consumable item (except another Gem) is received that can currently be activated, it will immediately do so. However, if a Plate or Drive is given to a Pokémon using Judgment or Techno Blast after it has consumed a Gem, the move's type will not change; likewise, if the Pokémon receives another Gem via Symbiosis due to consuming a Gem, it will not also consume the new Gem. In Generation VI, if an ally's Eject Button is consumed, Symbiosis will activate and transfer an item to that ally after it switches out but before its replacement is sent out. When this Pokémon has switched in again, the Pokémon's item will be affected by the Symbiosis Eject Button glitch, which causes certain items to apply their effect twice. If the ally of a Pokémon with Symbiosis consumes a Gem by using a move, Symbiosis does not activate until after the move is executed. The Eject Button activating does not trigger Symbiosis.

Title: Tough Claws (Ability)

Tough Claws (Japanese: かたいツメ Tough Claws) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Tough Claws boosts the power of the Pokémon's contact moves by approximately 30% (more precisely, a factor of 5325/4096). The table below lists the moves affected by Tough Claws, as well as the Pokémon that can have Tough Claws and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Tough Claws. They may, however, be used after a Pokémon with Tough Claws learned the move via Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Tough Claws by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. Tough Claws boosts the power of contact moves by 20%. X's Charizard, Salamè, was revealed to have Tough Claws as his Ability when Mega Evolved into Mega Charizard X in the PokéSPedia data-book. Tough Claws is the Ability of three Mega-Evolved Pokémon, tying with Magic Bounce for the most common Ability amongst Mega-Evolved Pokémon.

Title: Pixilate (Ability)

Pixilate (Japanese: フェアリースキン Fairy Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. From Generation VIII onward, it is the signature Ability of Sylveon. Pixilate causes all Normal-type moves used by the Pokémon to become Fairy-type and receive a 30% power boost. Electrify is applied before Pixilate, so if the Pokémon is affected by Electrify the move becomes Electric-type and does not have its power boosted by Pixilate. The type-changing effect is applied before Ion Deluge, so if both effects are applying, an originally Normal-type move will end up as a Fairy-type move (as it is no longer Normal-type when Ion Deluge would be applied). If Max Strike is selected with Pixilate, it will turn into Max Starfall when used, unless the user is Gigantamax Alcremie, in which case it will instead turn into G-Max Finale. The table below lists the moves affected by Pixilate, as well as the Pokémon that can have Pixilate and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Pixilate. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Pixilate by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Rumble World, Mega Gardevoir and Altaria have the Pixilate ability, changing the type of Normal-type moves to Fairy. Normal-type moves become Fairy type and deal 20-25% more damage. In Pokémon UNITE, Pixilate is Sylveon's Ability. It increases the user's Special Attack and Special Defense by 2.5% for 1.5s, when it deals or receives damage, stacking up to 6 times.

Title: Gooey (Ability)

Gooey (Japanese: ぬめぬめ Gooey) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature Ability of Goomy's evolutionary line. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the Speed of the attacking Pokémon is decreased by one stage. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit activates this Ability.

Title: Aerilate (Ability)

Aerilate (Japanese: スカイスキン Sky Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. Aerilate causes all Normal-type moves used by the Pokémon to become Flying-type and receive a 30% power boost. Electrify is applied before Aerilate, so if the Pokémon is affected by Electrify the move becomes Electric-type and does not have its power boosted by Aerilate. The type-changing effect is applied before Ion Deluge, so if both effects are applying, an originally Normal-type move will end up as a Flying-type move (as it is no longer Normal-type when Ion Deluge would be applied). The table below lists the moves affected by Aerilate, as well as the Pokémon that can have Aerilate and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Aerilate. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Aerilate by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Rumble World, Mega Pinsir and Salamence have the Aerilate ability, changing the type of Normal-type moves to Flying. Normal-type moves become Flying type and deal 20-25% more damage. Aerilate is the only Ability restricted to Mega-Evolved Pokémon to not be a signature Ability.

Title: Parental Bond (Ability)

Parental Bond (Japanese: おやこあい Parent-Child Love) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature Ability of Mega Kangaskhan. Parental Bond causes most damaging moves used by the Pokémon to become two-strike moves. It does not affect multistrike moves. If a move could hit multiple targets (including allies), such as Earthquake and Rock Slide, it will not strike twice; however, if it can only hit a single Pokémon, such as in a Single Battle or if using a move that can hit multiple targets when only one target is in range, it will strike twice. If a move could hit multiple Pokémon but only hits one due to missing the other Pokémon, it will only strike once. Since Parental Bond turns moves into two-hit multistrike moves, each strike has a separate chance to be a critical hit, items and Abilities that trigger upon strike or contact such as Cursed Body and Rocky Helmet occur for each strike, and Spiky Shield and King's Shield only damage and decrease Attack (respectively) once if they protect a Pokémon from a contact move used by a Pokémon with Parental Bond. Additionally, there is only one accuracy check, so either both strikes hit or both strikes miss. Any attack which has a secondary effect (except Secret Power) has the same secondary effect on both strikes (such as Power-Up Punch); if a secondary effect has a certain chance of occurring, each strike has an independent chance of activating that effect. Even if the Pokémon's Ability is changed to Mummy after the first strike, it will continue to make a second strike regardless. Pay Day scatters coins after the first strike only. Incinerate destroys applicable held items after each strike. Unlike other secondary effects, Secret Power's secondary effect can only occur after the final strike. If a move has recoil damage, the recoil will be based on the damage dealt by both strikes, but will be taken after the final strike; Struggle will inflict recoil damage equal to half the user's maximum HP (after the final strike). Moves that switch the target out and moves that switch the user out strike twice, then force a Pokémon to switch out after both strikes are conducted. Thief, Covet, Bug Bite, and Pluck do not steal or eat the target's held item until after the final strike, so if the target could use its item after the first strike (e.g. due to low HP), it will use it before the attacker can steal or eat it. Smelling Salts, Wake-Up Slap, and Knock Off do not cure the target's status condition or remove its held item (respectively) until after the final strike, so both strikes get the increased power. Fire-type moves, Scald, and Steam Eruption thaw a frozen target after the final strike (so a frozen target cannot be thawed and then burned by the same move). Smack Down and Thousand Arrows only cause the target to fall to the ground after the final strike. If Meloetta has Parental Bond and uses Relic Song, it will change Forme only once, after the final strike. Burn Up does not remove the user's Fire type until after the second strike (so both strikes receive same-type attack bonus). If a Pokémon with Parental Bond uses an Electric-type move on a Pokémon with Lightning Rod, or a Water-type move on a Pokémon with Storm Drain, the effect of raising the target's Special Attack will only happen once. If Present heals the target it will only strike once, but if it damages the target it will strike twice (the second strike will always damage the target). Fixed-damage moves (such as Seismic Toss and Dragon Rage) deal the full amount of damage for both strikes. The damage dealt by Psywave is generated separately for each strike, and the second strike's damage is not halved. Each strike of Super Fang halves the target's HP (effectively quartering it if HP is not changed between strikes). Counter, Mirror Coat, Metal Burst, and Bide deal the full amount of damage for both strikes. The first strike of Assurance counts as previously taking damage for the second strike, giving it increased power. Fury Cutter and Echoed Voice only consider uses of the move rather than hits, so the second strike's power is not boosted by the first strike. Grass Pledge, Fire Pledge, and Water Pledge strike twice, even when used as a combination move. Natural Gift and Spit Up strike twice. Moves that require recharging after use strike twice, but the user only needs to recharge for one turn. One-hit knockout moves, Fling, Self-Destruct, Explosion, Final Gambit, Uproar, Rollout, and Ice Ball only strike once. (Other consecutively executed moves, such as Outrage, can strike twice.) Moves with a charging turn (such as Fly and Solar Beam) only strike once, even if the Pokémon becomes fully charged in one turn (such as with a Power Herb). Endeavor also only strikes once, even if the user or target's HP is changed after it strikes (such as by Iron Barbs or the Sitrus Berry). Confusion damage only occurs once. Spirit Shackle and Anchor Shot only trap the target after the final strike. The second strike has its damage halved (unless it is a set-damage move) The second strike now deals 25% of its usual damage (unless it is a set-damage move). Parental Bond does not affect Z-Moves or Max Moves. When Kangaskhan Mega Evolves with the Awakening Emera in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Parental Bond will instead spawn a baby Kangaskhan as a party member. Similar to client Pokémon, the baby Kangaskhan acts independently and cannot be controlled by the player. It will ignore team tactics and always follow its mother. It has the same moves as its mother, has about 1/3 of the power as the mother, and spawns with 100 HP. When the Awakening Emera is used up, the baby Kangaskhan will go into Berserk mode along with its mother, although it will warp back to its mother if it ventures too far on its own. When the Berserk mode wears off, the baby Kangaskhan disappears.

Title: Dark Aura (Ability)

Dark Aura (Japanese: ダークオーラ Dark Aura) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature Ability of Yveltal. Dark Aura increases the power of Dark-type attacks by approximately 33% (or more accurately, by a factor of 5448/4096) for all Pokémon on the field. This effect is inverted by Aura Break, instead dividing the power of Dark-type attacks by 4/3, resulting in a 25% reduction in damage. The effects will not stack multiple times if more than one Pokémon has this Ability. Dark Aura boosts the power of Dark-type moves of all Pokémon in the same floor by about 40-45%. This effect is reversed by Aura Break.

Title: Fairy Aura (Ability)

Fairy Aura (Japanese: フェアリーオーラ Fairy Aura) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature Ability of Xerneas. Fairy Aura increases the power of Fairy-type attacks by approximately 33% (or more accurately, by a factor of 5448/4096) for all Pokémon on the field. This effect is inverted by Aura Break, instead dividing the power of Fairy-type attacks by 4/3, resulting in a 25% reduction in damage. The effects will not stack multiple times if more than one Pokémon has this Ability. Fairy Aura boosts the power of Fairy-type moves of all Pokémon on the same floor by about 40-45%. This effect is reversed by Aura Break. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Xerneas, Xerxer, was revealed to have Fairy Aura as its Ability.

Title: Aura Break (Ability)

Aura Break (Japanese: オーラブレイク Aura Break) is an Ability introduced in Generation VI. It is one of the signature Abilities of Zygarde. Aura Break inverts the effects of Fairy Aura and Dark Aura: instead of multiplying the power of Fairy- or Dark-type moves by those Abilities' normal multiplier of approximately 4/3 (or more precisely, 5448/4096), the power of moves of that type is divided by 4/3 instead, resulting in a 25% decrease in power as long as both Abilities are active. Even if a Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, or Turboblaze uses a Fairy- or Dark-type move, the effect of Aura Break still applies. In Generation VII, Zygarde with the Ability Aura Break can be separated back into Cores and Cells by the Reassembly Unit. In Generation VIII only, the Zygarde Cube can be used to switch Zygarde's Ability between Aura Break and Power Construct; in all games, Zygarde cannot switch between Abilities using an Ability Capsule or an Ability Patch. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, this Ability is practically useless, as Zygarde is not fought as an enemy, nor can Xerneas or Yveltal be fought using Zygarde, and it is impossible to even use Zygarde on the same team as Xerneas or Yveltal unless one is summoned with Djinn's Bottle.

Title: Primordial Sea (Ability)

Primordial Sea (Japanese: はじまりのうみ Sea of the Beginning) is an Ability introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature Ability of Primal Kyogre. When a Pokémon with Primordial Sea enters the battle or a Pokémon gains the Ability Primordial Sea, the Ability creates heavy rain, a unique variation of rain. In a Rotation Battle, Primordial Sea will not activate if the Pokémon is sent out in a rotated-out position, nor will it activate when that Pokémon is rotated in. In addition, Primordial Sea will not activate if heavy rain is already present on the battlefield. Along with the usual effects of rain, heavy rain causes damage-dealing Fire-type moves to fail (unless a Pokémon on the field has the Air Lock or Cloud Nine Ability). Additionally, heavy rain causes the weather-modifying moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, and Hail to fail if used, and causes the Abilities Drought, Drizzle, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning to fail to activate. Once in effect, as long as there is a Pokémon on the field with the Ability Primordial Sea active (even if it is not the Pokémon who created it), the heavy rain will remain in effect unless it is replaced. (If the only Pokémon on the field with Primordial Sea is rotated out or switched out, or has its Ability suppressed or replaced, the heavy rain will dissipate.) The heavy rain can be replaced by Desolate Land or Delta Stream. Rain called by Primordial Sea does not allow Sliggoo to evolve into Goodra. In Pokémon Rumble World, Primal Kyogre has the Primordial Sea ability, granting it full immunity to Fire-type moves.

Title: Desolate Land (Ability)

Desolate Land (Japanese: おわりのだいち Land of the End) is an Ability introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature Ability of Primal Groudon. When a Pokémon with Desolate Land enters the battle or a Pokémon gains the Ability Desolate Land, the Ability creates extremely harsh sunlight, a unique variation of harsh sunlight. In a Rotation Battle, Desolate Land will not activate if the Pokémon is sent out in a rotated-out position, nor will it activate if the Pokémon is rotated in. In addition, Desolate Land will not activate if extremely harsh sunlight is already present on the battlefield. Along with the usual effects of harsh sunlight, extremely harsh sunlight causes damage-dealing Water-type moves to fail (unless a Pokémon on the field has the Air Lock or Cloud Nine Ability). Additionally, extremely harsh sunlight causes the weather-modifying moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, and Hail to fail if used, and causes the Abilities Drought, Drizzle, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning to fail to activate. Once in effect, as long as there is a Pokémon on the field with the Ability Desolate Land active (even if it is not the Pokémon who created it), the harsh sunlight will remain in effect unless it is replaced. (If the only Pokémon on the field with Desolate Land is rotated out or switched out, or has its Ability suppressed or replaced, the harsh sunlight will dissipate.) The harsh sunlight can be replaced by Primordial Sea or Delta Stream. While Abilities do not occur in normal gameplay in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Primal Groudon is immune to Water-type attacks in the second phase of the Rogue Mega Evolution battle against it. Stunning Primal Groudon temporarily removes this immunity. In Pokémon Rumble World, Primal Groudon has the Desolate Land ability, granting it full immunity to Water-type moves.

Title: Delta Stream (Ability)

Delta Stream (Japanese: デルタストリーム Delta Stream) is an Ability introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature Ability of Mega Rayquaza. When a Pokémon with Delta Stream enters the battle or a Pokémon gains the Ability, a unique weather condition called strong winds is created. In a Rotation Battle, Delta Stream will not activate if the Pokémon is sent out in a rotated-out position, nor will it activate when that Pokémon is rotated in. In addition, Delta Stream will not activate if strong winds are already present on the battlefield or if the Pokémon's Ability is suppressed prior to it gaining Delta Stream. Strong winds cause moves that would be super effective against pure Flying-type Pokémon to remove the Flying type's weaknesses (unless a Pokémon on the field has Cloud Nine or Air Lock). Outside of Inverse Battles, this causes Electric-, Ice-, and Rock-type moves to deal neutral damage to Flying-type Pokémon; during Inverse Battles, this causes Bug-, Fighting-, Grass-, and Ground-type moves to deal neutral damage to Flying-type Pokémon. If a move is not super effective against the Pokémon's other type (for dual-typed Pokémon), this no longer counts as a supereffective hit (for the purposes of damage-reducing Berries, etc.). Strong winds have no effect on Stealth Rock or Anticipation. Additionally, strong winds cause the weather-modifying moves Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, and Hail to fail if used, and cause the Abilities Drought, Drizzle, Sand Stream, and Snow Warning to fail to activate. However, the strong winds can be replaced by Desolate Land or Primordial Sea. Once strong winds are in effect, as long as there is an active Pokémon on the field with Delta Stream (even if it is not the Pokémon who created it), the strong winds will remain in effect, unless Delta Stream is suppressed or replaced. If the only Pokémon on the field with Delta Stream is rotated out or switched out, or has its Ability suppressed or replaced, the strong winds will dissipate. In Pokémon Rumble World, Mega Rayquaza has the Delta Stream ability, removing the weaknesses of its Flying typing and essentially making it a pure Dragon-type defensively. Rayquaza is revealed to have Delta Stream as its Ability when Mega-Evolved. Delta Stream is the last Generation VI Ability in index number order.

Title: Stamina (Ability)

Stamina redirects here. For other uses, see Stamina (disambiguation). Stamina (Japanese: じきゅうりょく Stamina) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature Ability of Mudbray and Mudsdale. When a Pokémon with Stamina is hit by an attack, its Defense rises by one stage. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move (such as Fury Swipes), each hit activates this Ability. The stats shown above are the exact stats, not base stats. The values are custom set rather than derived from base stats, level, Nature, IVs, and EVs. Stamina is the first Generation VII Ability in index number order.

Title: Wimp Out (Ability)

Wimp Out (Japanese: にげごし Back Off) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Wimpod. When a Pokémon with Wimp Out takes damage that lowers its HP below half of its maximum HP, it will flee (in wild battles) or switch out (in Trainer battles). If the Pokémon's HP is already below half, Wimp Out cannot activate (unless the Pokémon first restores HP). Wimp Out will not activate if the Pokémon's HP falls below half due to hurting itself in confusion, but it will activate if the HP falls below half from all other damage (including Struggle recoil). It does not activate when the Pokémon's HP is lowered by a means other than damage (such as Pain Split, or cutting its own HP by using Substitute or Belly Drum or Curse). Wimp Out will not activate if the Pokémon's HP falls below half by a move affected by Sheer Force. It will activate only after the last hit of multistrike moves, even if the HP of the Pokémon with this Ability drops below half before the last hit. If this Ability activates due to being hit by U-turn or Volt Switch, the user of that move will not be switched out. This Ability will not activate if the Pokémon's HP falls below half while it is in the air during the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop. If the Pokémon falls below half HP and immediately consumes a Berry (such as a Sitrus Berry) to restore its HP above half, Wimp Out does not activate; however, if it falls below half and recovers back above half from a Shell Bell, Wimp Out will activate even after the Shell Bell recovery. Trapping moves do not prevent Wimp Out from activating. Wimp Out will not activate in Trainer battles if the Pokémon with this Ability is its Trainer's only Pokémon left. Wimp Out will not activate on the player's Pokémon in wild battles during trials. If the Pokémon with Wimp Out holds a Red Card or Eject Button, the item activates first. Dragon Tail and Circle Throw switch out Pokémon before the Ability activates. Along with Honey Gather, Battery, and Ball Fetch, Wimp Out is one of four signature Abilities to have been given to only a pre-evolved Pokémon in its debut.

Title: Emergency Exit (Ability)

Emergency Exit (Japanese: ききかいひ Crisis Prevention) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Golisopod. When a Pokémon with Emergency Exit takes damage that lowers its HP below half of its maximum HP, it will flee (in wild battles) or switch out (in Trainer battles). If the Pokémon's HP is already below half, Emergency Exit cannot activate (unless the Pokémon first restores HP). Emergency Exit will not activate if the Pokémon's HP falls below half due to hurting itself in confusion, but it will activate if the HP falls below half from all other damage (including Struggle recoil). It does not activate when the Pokémon's HP is lowered by a means other than damage (such as Pain Split, or cutting its own HP by using Substitute or Belly Drum or Curse). Emergency Exit will not activate if the Pokémon's HP falls below half by a move affected by Sheer Force. It will activate only after the last hit of multistrike moves, even if the HP of the Pokémon with this Ability drops below half before the last hit. If this Ability activates due to being hit by U-turn or Volt Switch, the user of that move will not be switched out. This Ability will not activate if the Pokémon's HP falls below half while it is in the air during the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop. If the Pokémon falls below half HP and immediately consumes a Berry (such as a Sitrus Berry) to restore its HP above half, Emergency Exit does not activate; however, if it falls below half and recovers back above half from a Shell Bell, Emergency Exit will activate even after the Shell Bell recovery. Trapping moves do not prevent Emergency Exit from activating. Emergency Exit will not activate in Trainer battles if the Pokémon with this Ability is its Trainer's only Pokémon left. Emergency Exit will not activate on the player's Pokémon in wild battles during trials. If the Pokémon with Emergency Exit holds a Red Card or Eject Button, the item activates first. Dragon Tail and Circle Throw switch out Pokémon before the Ability activates.

Title: Water Compaction (Ability)

Water Compaction (Japanese: みずがため Water Fortifying) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Sandygast and Palossand. When a Pokémon with Water Compaction is hit by a Water-type move, its Defense rises by two stages. No immunity is granted to Water-type moves, however. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a Water-type multistrike move, each hit activates this Ability.

Title: Merciless (Ability)

Merciless (Japanese: ひとでなし Brute) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Mareanie and Toxapex. Attacks used by the Pokémon with this Ability will always become critical hits against poisoned targets, unless that target has Battle Armor or Shell Armor or is under the effects of Lucky Chant. Moon's Mareanie was revealed to have Merciless as her Ability in the PokéSPedia data-book. The Japanese name of the ability contains a pun on the word ひとで starfish, explaining its restriction to only Mareanie and Toxapex.

Title: Shields Down (Ability)

Shields Down (Japanese: リミットシールド Limit Shield) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Minior. At the start of battle or at the end of a turn, if Minior's HP is above half, it will change into its Meteor Form. At the end of the turn, if its HP is below half, it will change back to its core form. While in Meteor Form, Minior cannot be afflicted by non-volatile status conditions or become drowsy due to Yawn. Rest will fail when used by Minior in Meteor Form. If Minior is switched in in its core form while grounded (due to Iron Ball, Gravity, or being Baton Passed Ingrain), it will be poisoned by Toxic Spikes before Shields Down switches it to Meteor Form. If Minior gets a status condition while in its core form and later changes into Meteor Form, the status condition remains in effect. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Shields Down. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Shields Down. Shields Down cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Shields Down cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas, or traded by Wandering Spirit. If a Pokémon other than Minior obtains Shields Down with Imposter or Transform, the Pokémon will not change forms and will not be immune to status conditions (even if it transformed into Meteor Form Minior). Mold Breaker, Turboblaze, and Teravolt have no effect on Shields Down. If a Pokémon with Poison Touch uses Sunsteel Strike or its variations on a Minior in Meteor Form, it will not be poisoned. Minior is always in its core form outside of battle.

Title: Stakeout (Ability)

Stakeout (Japanese: はりこみ Stakeout) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Yungoos and Gumshoos. Stakeout doubles the power of moves used against targets that have switched in this turn.

Title: Water Bubble (Ability)

Water Bubble (Japanese: すいほう Water Bubble) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Dewpider and Araquanid. Water Bubble halves the damage dealt to the Pokémon with this Ability by Fire-type attacks and doubles the power of Water-type moves used by the Pokémon with this Ability. It also prevents the Pokémon with the Ability from being burned. A Pokémon with Water Bubble will be cured of burn if it is burned while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability by an effect like Skill Swap, or is burned by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker).

Title: Steelworker (Ability)

Steelworker (Japanese: はがねつかい Steelworker) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Dhelmise. If a Steel-type move is used by a Pokémon with this Ability, its Attack or Special Attack stat is multiplied by 1.5 during damage calculation, effectively increasing damage dealt by 50%.

Title: Berserk (Ability)

Berserk (Japanese: ぎゃくじょう Frenzy) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Drampa. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Galarian Moltres. Each time the HP of a Pokémon with Berserk is reduced below half due to being targeted by a damaging move, its Special Attack is raised by one stage. If the HP of a Pokémon with Berserk drops below half but is about to be restored to above half due to a held item such as a Sitrus Berry, Berserk will activate before the HP is restored. However, if the move that hits the Pokémon with Berserk is a multistrike move, the item will be consumed immediately after the hit that drops the HP to below half, so Berserk will only activate if the HP is still below half after all the strikes and after the activation of the held item. If the HP falls below half due to indirect damage, such as one caused by Leech Seed, status conditions, or weather, Berserk won't activate. Berserk will not activate if the Pokémon's HP is reduced below half by a move affected by Sheer Force.

Title: Slush Rush (Ability)

Slush Rush (Japanese: ゆきかき Snow Removal) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. During a hailstorm or snow, the Speed stat of Pokémon with this Ability is doubled. Unlike Sand Rush, Snow Cloak, and Sand Veil, a Pokémon with this Ability will take damage from the hailstorm unless it is Ice-type. Slush Rush is the only Ability introduced in Generation VII that was never a signature Ability.

Title: Long Reach (Ability)

Long Reach (Japanese: えんかく Distant) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Rowlet and its Evolutions, except Hisuian Decidueye. If the Pokémon uses a contact move, it will not activate any effects caused by contact. The table below lists the moves affected by Long Reach, as well as the Pokémon that can have Long Reach and learn those moves. Although other contact moves are also affected by the Ability, they cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Long Reach. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Long Reach by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus's internal code, Hisuian Decidueye's Hidden Ability is Long Reach instead of Scrappy. In Pokémon UNITE, Long Reach is Decidueye's Ability. It increases damage dealt to distant enemies by 20%. Additional damage added per level from each move's damage formula is excluded from this bonus.

Title: Liquid Voice (Ability)

Liquid Voice (Japanese: うるおいボイス Moist Voice) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Popplio's evolutionary line. Liquid Voice turns the Pokémon's sound-based moves into Water-type moves. The table below lists the moves affected by Liquid Voice, as well as the Pokémon that can have Liquid Voice and learn those moves. Although other sound-based moves are also affected by the Ability, they cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Liquid Voice. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Liquid Voice by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play.

Title: Triage (Ability)

Triage (Japanese: ヒーリングシフト Healing Shift) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Comfey. Triage increases the priority of moves that restore HP used by the Pokémon with this Ability by 3, including both damaging moves and status moves. Triage does not affect Aqua Ring, Grassy Terrain, Ingrain, Leech Seed, Pain Split, Present, Pollen Puff, or Z-Moves that only heal due to their Z-Power effect (such as Z-Conversion 2). The table below lists the moves affected by Triage, as well as the Pokémon that can have Triage and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Triage. They may, however, be used by a Pokémon that gained Triage by Trace or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play.

Title: Galvanize (Ability)

Galvanize (Japanese: エレキスキン Electric Skin) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Alolan Geodude's evolutionary line. Galvanize causes all Normal-type moves used by the Pokémon to become Electric-type and receive a 20% power boost. Normal-type moves that become Electric-type in this manner can activate Lightning Rod, Volt Absorb, and Motor Drive. If a move is affected by Galvanize and is used under Electric Terrain, it will receive an additional 30% power boost from Electric Terrain (50% prior to Generation VIII). The table below lists the moves affected by Galvanize, as well as the Pokémon that can have Galvanize and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Galvanize. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Mirror Move, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Galvanize by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play.

Title: Surge Surfer (Ability)

Surge Surfer (Japanese: サーフテール Surf Tail) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Alolan Raichu. When the battlefield is under the effects of Electric Terrain, Surge Surfer doubles the Speed of Pokémon with this Ability.

Title: Schooling (Ability)

Schooling (Japanese: ぎょぐん Schooling) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Wishiwashi. If Wishiwashi is level 20 or higher and its HP is above 25% when it is sent out or at the end of a turn, it will change into its School Form. At the end of a turn, if its HP is equal to 25% or below, it will change back to its Solo Form. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Schooling. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Schooling. Schooling cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Schooling cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, or suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas. If a Pokémon other than Wishiwashi obtains Schooling with Imposter or Transform, the Pokémon will not change forms. Schooling is the only Ability that requires a certain level to activate.

Title: Disguise (Ability)

This article is about the Ability. For a list of Team Rocket disguises, see List of Team Rocket's disguises. Disguise (Japanese: ばけのかわ Disguise) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Mimikyu. If a Mimikyu in its Disguised Form is hit by a damaging move or hits itself in confusion, Disguise prevents the move from calling the damage formula. The move will thus deal no damage, and type effectiveness will not be calculated (except in case of immunity, which prevents Disguise from triggering since the move will not hit in the first place). When this effect activates, the message, "Its disguise served it as a decoy!" is displayed, Mimikyu changes to its Busted Form, and finally the message, "<Name>'s disguise was busted!" is displayed. If Mimikyu's type had been changed beforehand, it is restored to Ghost/Fairy when it changes to its Busted Form. Mimikyu remains in Busted Form if it is switched out, but reverts to Disguised Form outside of battle. If a Mimikyu faints and is revived, it will be revived in its Disguised Form and Disguise will be able to activate again. Disguise will not protect against status moves, entry hazards, or weather damage. Disguise activates at the first strike of a multistrike move such as Water Shuriken and will not block damage from remaining strikes. Disguise only blocks the damage from moves; additional effects of damaging moves like paralysis from Nuzzle are not prevented. If Mimikyu has a substitute, the substitute will take damage before Disguise. Because a Disguise-busting hit skips the type effectiveness check as well as the rest of the damage formula, Weakness Policy will not activate regardless of the move's type. A held Air Balloon will be popped even if Disguise negates the damage. Busting a Disguise with Rollout or Ice Ball results in the Rollout storage glitch. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Disguise. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Disguise. Disguise cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Disguise cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, traded by Wandering Spirit, or suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas; if a Pokémon that has its Ability suppressed passes that effect to a Pokémon with this Ability via Baton Pass, that effect fades. If a Pokémon obtains Disguise with Imposter or Transform, the Ability will never activate. Pokémon with Mold Breaker, Teravolt, or Turboblaze will ignore Disguise, hitting through the disguise without busting it. The same is true for the moves Moongeist Beam, Sunsteel Strike, and Photon Geyser as well as the Z-Moves Searing Sunraze Smash, Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom, and Light That Burns the Sky. When a Disguised Form Mimikyu's Disguise is busted, upon changing to its Busted Form it now loses HP equal to 1/8 of its maximum HP, rounded down, and not factoring in any increase in maximum HP due to Dynamax. If a Disguised Form Mimikyu faints from the damage, nothing special occurs. The moves G-Max Drum Solo, G-Max Fireball, and G-Max Hydrosnipe will ignore Disguise. If a damaging move is absorbed by a Disguised Form Mimikyu's Disguise in a Tera Raid Battle, the player's Tera Orb will not be charged. Although there are no Abilities in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, any attack that hits a Mimikyu in its Disguised Form will only deal damage equal to 1/8 of its maximum health and change it into Busted Form. Busting Mimikyu's disguise will interrupt its current action. When the player is out of battle and Mimikyu is in its Poké Ball, it will return to Disguised Form.

Title: Battle Bond (Ability)

Battle Bond (Japanese: きずなへんげ Bond Transformation) is an event-exclusive Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Greninja. When a Greninja with Battle Bond directly causes another Pokémon (including allies) to faint by using a damaging move, unless this ends the battle, it will change into Ash-Greninja. After the battle, the Pokémon reverts to its original form. Ash-Greninja has higher base stats than regular Greninja. If Ash-Greninja uses Water Shuriken, the move's power becomes 20 (rather than the usual 15) and it always hits three times. If a Pokémon Transforms into Ash-Greninja, Battle Bond does not affect the transformed Pokémon's use of Water Shuriken. Multiple Greninja can activate this Ability during the same battle. If Ash-Greninja faints in battle, it will revert to its original form, and that Greninja cannot change into Ash-Greninja again during the same battle even after being revived. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has Battle Bond. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Battle Bond. Battle Bond cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Battle Bond cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, or suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas. If a Pokémon other than Greninja obtains Battle Bond with Imposter or Transform, the Pokémon cannot change form into Ash-Greninja even if it knocks out another Pokémon. Battle Bond cannot be legitimately observed, as Greninja is unavailable in Generation VIII. Battle Bond no longer changes Greninja into Ash-Greninja. Instead, when a Pokémon with Battle Bond directly causes another Pokémon (including allies) to faint by using a damaging move, its Attack, Special Attack, and Speed stats are increased by one stage. This Ability only activates once per battle. If the aforementioned stats are already at +6 stages, Battle Bond will not activate. Water Shuriken is no longer affected by Battle Bond. Greninja with this Ability cannot breed nor be used in the Battle Spot if Special Pokémon are banned. However, they can be used in the battle facilities. In the Japan Mini-volume 6 for the X & Y arc, Y's Greninja, Croaky, was revealed to have Battle Bond as his Ability.

Title: Power Construct (Ability)

Power Construct (Japanese: スワームチェンジ Swarm Change) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the signature Abilities of Zygarde. At the end of a turn, if the HP of a Zygarde 10% Forme or 50% Forme with Power Construct is below half, it changes into Complete Forme. Since Zygarde Complete Forme has a higher base HP stat, Zygarde's maximum HP will increase and its current HP will be revised to its new maximum HP minus the amount of HP it had lost before changing form. Additionally, its type becomes Dragon/Ground (if it had been changed by some effect). At the end of the battle, Zygarde will change back to the Forme it started battle as, retaining the HP it had at the end of the battle. If this is above the maximum HP of its original Forme, its HP will become equal to its maximum HP. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Power Construct. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Power Construct. Power Construct cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Power Construct cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas, or traded by Wandering Spirit. The increase in base HP is not considered healing, so it is not prevented by Heal Block. If a Pokémon other than Zygarde obtains Power Construct with Imposter or Transform, the Pokémon cannot change Formes. Abilities do not appear in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. However, Zygarde 10% Forme and 50% Forme will change into Complete Forme when its HP is reduced to half or less, increasing its maximum HP and gaining current HP equal to the amount of maximum HP gained. If Zygarde's HP is reduced below the threshold while using a move, it will transform when the move finishes. Zygarde is invulnerable while changing into Complete Forme. Zygarde will change back to its previous form if it is recalled while out of battle, retaining the HP it had at that time. If this is above the maximum HP of its original form, its HP will become equal to its maximum HP. Zygarde with the Ability Power Construct cannot be separated back into Zygarde Cores and Cells; however, the Zygarde Cube can be used to switch a Zygarde with this Ability between its 10% and 50% Formes. In Generation VIII only, the Zygarde Cube can be used to switch Zygarde's Ability between Aura Break and Power Construct; in all games, Zygarde cannot switch Abilities through an Ability Capsule or an Ability Patch. During the transformation, countless Zygarde Cells and a few Zygarde Cores can be seen merging with Zygarde.

Title: Corrosion (Ability)

Corrosion (Japanese: ふしょく Corrosion) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature Ability of Salandit and Salazzle. Corrosion allows the user to inflict poison on Pokémon regardless of type, allowing them to poison Poison- and Steel-type Pokémon. (It has no effect on Steel-type Pokémon's immunity to Poison-type damaging moves.) A Pokémon with Corrosion can poison Poison- and Steel-type Pokémon if it uses Baneful Bunker, Psycho Shift while poisoned, or Fling while holding a Toxic Orb or a Poison Barb. If a Pokémon with Corrosion uses G-Max Malodor, it can poison Pokémon on the target's side of the field even if they are Poison- or Steel-type (despite Steel-type Pokémon being immune to Poison-type moves). If a Poison- or Steel-type Pokémon with Corrosion holds a Toxic Orb, it will badly poison itself. Corrosion cannot bypass moves or Abilities that prevent poisoning, such as Safeguard or Immunity. This Ability has no effect on Toxic Spikes. If the Pokémon with this Ability uses Magic Coat to reflect a status move that inflicts poison, the reflected move will be able to poison Poison- or Steel-type Pokémon. Conversely, moves used by a Pokémon with Corrosion that are reflected by Magic Coat or Magic Bounce will not be able to poison Poison- or Steel-type Pokémon. If a Poison- or Steel-type Pokémon with this Ability poisons a target with Synchronize, Synchronize does not gain the ability to poison Poison- or Steel-type Pokémon.

Title: Comatose (Ability)

Comatose (Japanese: ぜったいねむり Sure Sleeper) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Komala. The Pokémon with this Ability is treated as if it is asleep, without having the status condition. The Pokémon with this Ability can still use moves (including successfully using Sleep Talk and Snore). It cannot be afflicted with non-volatile status conditions or become drowsy due to Yawn. The Pokémon with this Ability takes double damage from Hex and Wake-Up Slap; can be affected by Dream Eater, Nightmare, and Bad Dreams; and cannot successfully use Rest. However, due to not actually having the sleep status condition, the Pokémon with this Ability is not considered to have a status condition for the purposes of effects such as Purify, Chesto and Lum Berries, Beat Up, and the status modifier in the catch rate formula. Comatose is unaffected by effects that prevent sleep (such as Uproar, Electric Terrain, and Sweet Veil). Comatose is unaffected by Mold Breaker, Turboblaze, and Teravolt. A Pokémon with Poison Touch using Sunsteel Strike cannot poison a target that has Comatose. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has the Ability Comatose. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Comatose. Comatose cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Comatose cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma, suppressed by Core Enforcer or Neutralizing Gas, or traded by Wandering Spirit. If a Pokémon that has its Ability suppressed passes that effect to a Pokémon with Comatose via Baton Pass, that effect fades. If a Pokémon that already has its Ability suppressed obtains Comatose with Transform, Comatose's effects are suppressed (i.e. the Pokémon will not be protected from status conditions, is not treated as asleep for effects such as Sleep Talk, etc.). If a Pokémon that already has a status condition gains Comatose (i.e. due to Transform or Imposter), it will not be cured of its status condition. If the Pokémon was asleep, the status condition has its normal effect, unaffected by Comatose. Corresponding to the Dream Ball's updated catch rate multiplier, a 4× bonus is applied when attempting to catch a wild Pokémon with the Ability Comatose. However, this could not be legitimately observed until Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, as Komala, the only Pokémon that can legitimately have Comatose as an Ability, was absent from games released after the Dream Ball's update until these titles.

Title: Queenly Majesty (Ability)

Queenly Majesty (Japanese: じょおうのいげん Queen's Majesty) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Tsareena. If an opponent uses a move with increased priority (including moves boosted by Prankster, Gale Wings, or Triage) that targets the Pokémon with Queenly Majesty or its allies, Queenly Majesty prevents the Pokémon from executing that move, after PP is deducted from it. As such, the opponent can only use a move with decreased priority or a move without any to target the Pokémon with Queenly Majesty or its allies. Moves that target all Pokémon (except Perish Song, Flower Shield, and Rototiller) and moves that target the opponent's side of the field cannot be blocked by Queenly Majesty, even if they become moves with increased priority. Queenly Majesty has no effect on allies' moves with increased priority. Status Z-Moves with increased priority will have their Z-Power effect activate. For example, if a Pokémon uses Z-Baby-Doll Eyes on a Pokémon under the effect of Queenly Majesty, the user will still gain Defense; it will not lower the target's Attack, however. Mold Breaker, Turboblaze, and Teravolt will ignore this Ability. Moves with increased priority that are called using Instruct retain their original priority and are blocked by Queenly Majesty. Moves with decreased priority and moves without any—both which are called using Instruct with increased priority (i.e.: the user with Prankster)—similarly retain their original priority and cannot be blocked. Moves with increased priority that are called using any moves that call other moves cannot be blocked by Queenly Majesty. If a move that calls other moves is used with increased priority, Queenly Majesty will block the called move regardless of its original priority. In Pokémon UNITE, Queenly Majesty is Tsareena's Ability. When a hindrance is inflicted on the user; decrease the duration of the effect. Using a boosted attack or move grants 1 stack of Queenly Majesty to the user. After gaining 3 stacks, the Queenly Majesty buff is applied to the user for a short time, which allows one of user's moves to be reused (these uses do not share the same cooldown as the base moves), dealing increased damage and applying an additional effect based on the move used.

Title: Innards Out (Ability)

Innards Out (Japanese: とびだすなかみ Flying Innards) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Pyukumuku. When a Pokémon with this Ability is knocked out by an opponent's attack, it deals damage to that opponent equal to the amount of HP it had left before last being hit. If a Pokémon with this Ability faints through Future Sight or Doom Desire, Innards Out will only activate if the user of the move is still on the field. If a Pokémon with this Ability moves first and is then knocked out by Core Enforcer, Innards Out will not activate. If Innards Out causes two opposing Pokémon to faint at the same time, and neither party has any remaining Pokémon, then the Pokémon that activated Innards Out loses. If a Pokémon with this ability is knocked out by a multistrike move (including a move that becomes multistrike due to Parental Bond), the total HP dealt by all strikes will be added together and countered back all at once.

Title: Dancer (Ability)

Dancer (Japanese: おどりこ Dancer) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Oricorio. Whenever another Pokémon uses a dance move, a Pokémon with the Ability Dancer will immediately use that move as well. Using a move through Dancer is a separate action to using the move originally selected. Dancer will not activate for a move copied by another Pokémon with Dancer, but it will activate on an instructed dance move. Dancer is able to copy a status dance move that has been powered up into its corresponding Z-Move (e.g. Z-Feather Dance), but the Pokémon with Dancer copies the regular version of the move and does not gain the additional Z-Power effect. Dancer will not activate if all of the move's targets are protected from it, if the move fails to affect any Pokémon (e.g. Teeter Dance if all of the targets are already confused or have Own Tempo), or if all targets are immune (e.g. Electric-type Revelation Dance if the target is Ground-type). Dancer will not activate if the move is stolen by Snatch or if the Pokémon with Dancer is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move like Fly. If multiple Pokémon have Dancer when a dance move is used, the slowest Pokémon will move first (Lagging Tail and Full Incense are ignored), even during Trick Room. If the Pokémon with Dancer is confused, it may hurt itself instead of copying the move, even if it is protected by a move like Protect or Mat Block. If a Pokémon has flinched, this also applies to moves it subsequently tries to copy with Dancer. A Pokémon with Dancer that is locked into a consecutively executed move (such as Petal Dance) or any move by Encore or a held Choice item will still try to copy the move, but will fail unless it is locked into that same dance move; if a Pokémon uses Petal Dance via Dancer while locked into Petal Dance, this usage does not count towards the 2-3 turn duration. If a Pokémon with Dancer is holding an Assault Vest, it can still successfully copy status dance moves. Lunar Dance is copied after the original user faints. If a Pokémon copies Petal Dance via Dancer, it will not be locked into the move. If Feather Dance is reflected by Magic Bounce or Magic Coat, Dancer will not activate for either the initial usage of the move or its reflected use. If the Pokémon with Dancer is under the effect of Taunt, it will still try to copy a status dance move, but will fail. Moves used via Dancer can be stolen by Snatch and reflected by Magic Bounce and Magic Coat. Moves used via Dancer are not considered the move used most recently (such as for the purpose of Instruct, Mimic or Mirror Move), but damage dealt by them is considered for the purpose of Counter, Mirror Coat, Metal Burst, and Comeuppance. In a Double Battle, if an ally uses a single-target dance move on an opponent, then the copied move will target the same opponent when copied by Dancer. Otherwise, a copied single-target dance move will target the user of the dance move. In a Tera Raid Battle, Dancer will not activate if an ally uses a dance move.

Title: Battery (Ability)

Battery redirects here. For the held item, see Cell Battery. Battery (Japanese: バッテリー Battery) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Charjabug. This Ability increases the Special Attack of allies when they use special moves by approximately 30%, or more precisely, 5325/4096. Battery was mentioned in So Long, Sophocles!, when Professor Kukui was telling his students about this Ability in class. Along with Honey Gather, Wimp Out, and Ball Fetch, Battery is one of four signature Abilities to have been given to only a pre-evolved Pokémon in its debut.

Title: Fluffy (Ability)

Fluffy (Japanese: もふもふ Fluffy) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Stufful and Bewear, and in Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Greavard and Houndstone. A Pokémon with Fluffy takes half damage from moves that make contact. It also takes double damage from Fire-type moves. Fire-type moves that make contact will deal regular damage. Moves affected by Long Reach which make contact will deal regular damage.

Title: Dazzling (Ability)

Dazzling (Japanese: ビビッドボディ Vivid Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Bruxish. If an opponent uses a move with increased priority (including moves boosted by Prankster, Gale Wings, or Triage) that targets the Pokémon with Dazzling or its allies, Dazzling prevents the Pokémon from executing that move, after PP is deducted from it. As such, the opponent can only use a move with decreased priority or a move without any to target the Pokémon with Dazzling or its allies. Moves that target all Pokémon (except Perish Song, Flower Shield, and Rototiller) and moves that target the opponent's side of the field cannot be blocked by Dazzling even if they become moves with increased priority. Dazzling has no effect on allies' moves with increased priority. Status Z-Moves with increased priority will have their Z-Power effect activate. For example, if a Pokémon uses Z-Baby-Doll Eyes on a Pokémon under the effect of Dazzling, the user will still gain Defense; it will not lower the target's Attack, however. Mold Breaker, Turboblaze, and Teravolt will ignore this Ability. Moves with increased priority that are called using Instruct retain their original priority and are blocked by Dazzling. Moves with decreased priority and moves without any—both which are called using Instruct with increased priority (i.e.: the user with Prankster)—similarly retain their original priority and cannot be blocked. Moves with increased priority that are called using any moves that call other moves cannot be blocked by Dazzling. If a move that calls other moves is used with increased priority, Dazzling will block the called move regardless of its original priority.

Title: Tangling Hair (Ability)

Tangling Hair (Japanese: カーリーヘアー Curly Hair) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Alolan Diglett and Alolan Dugtrio. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move that makes contact, the Speed of the attacking Pokémon is decreased by one stage. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), each hit activates this Ability.

Title: Receiver (Ability)

Receiver (Japanese: レシーバー Receiver) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Passimian. When an ally of the Pokémon with this Ability faints in battle (regardless of cause), Receiver will be replaced by the fainted Pokémon's Ability. Receiver will not activate if its ally had the Ability Receiver, Power of Alchemy, Trace, Forecast, Flower Gift, Multitype, Illusion, Wonder Guard, Zen Mode, Imposter, Stance Change, Power Construct, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Wandering Spirit, Gulp Missile, Ice Face, Hunger Switch, As One, Zero to Hero, Commander, Protosynthesis, or Quark Drive. Receiver cannot be copied by Role Play or Trace. Role Play and Entrainment will fail if used by a Pokémon with Receiver. Starting from Version 3.0.0 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Receiver can be replaced by Gulp Missile.

Title: Beast Boost (Ability)

Beast Boost (Japanese: ビーストブースト Beast Boost) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of the Ultra Beasts. When a Pokémon with Beast Boost directly causes another Pokémon (including allies) to faint by using a damaging move, its highest stat (other than HP) is increased by one stage for each Pokémon knocked out by that move execution. If this stat is already at +6 stages, Beast Boost will not activate (not even in the case of a tie of two or more stats). For determining the highest stat, Beast Boost does not take into account stat stages, held items, or reductions due to status conditions; however, it does consider the effects of Power Split, Guard Split, Power Trick, Wonder Room, and Speed Swap. In the case of a tie between multiple stats, it increases one stat, prioritized in this order: Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed. If the Pokémon fainting ends the battle, Beast Boost will not activate. Beast Boost activates after the Pokémon gains Attack from Fell Stinger. If a Pokémon with Beast Boost defeats a Pokémon with Mummy using a contact move, the Pokémon's Ability will become Mummy before Beast Boost has the opportunity to activate. Sun's Stakataka, Drachma, was revealed to have Beast Boost as its Ability.

Title: Electric Surge (Ability)

Electric Surge (Japanese: エレキメイカー Electric Maker) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Tapu Koko. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Pincurchin. When a Pokémon with Electric Surge enters the battle, it creates the effect of the move Electric Terrain on the battlefield.

Title: Psychic Surge (Ability)

Psychic Surge (Japanese: サイコメイカー Psycho Maker) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Tapu Lele. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Indeedee. When a Pokémon with Psychic Surge enters the battle, it creates the effect of the move Psychic Terrain on the battlefield.

Title: Misty Surge (Ability)

Misty Surge (Japanese: ミストメイカー Mist Maker) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Tapu Fini. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Galarian Weezing. When a Pokémon with Misty Surge enters the battle, it creates the effect of the move Misty Terrain on the battlefield. The stats shown above are the exact stats, not base stats. The values are custom set rather than derived from base stats, level, Nature, IVs, and EVs.

Title: Grassy Surge (Ability)

Grassy Surge (Japanese: グラスメイカー Grass Maker) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature Ability of Tapu Bulu. In Generation IX, it is the signature Ability of Grookey's evolutionary line. When a Pokémon with Grassy Surge enters the battle, it creates the effect of the move Grassy Terrain on the battlefield. This is the only terrain-creating Ability which more than two Pokémon have. It was also the only one unobtainable at the launch of Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Full Metal Body (Ability)

Full Metal Body (Japanese: メタルプロテクト Metal Protect) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Solgaleo. Full Metal Body prevents stat reduction caused by other Pokémon's moves and Abilities (such as Scary Face and Intimidate), including Sticky Web. Full Metal Body does not prevent self-inflicted stat reductions such as from moves like Superpower or Shell Smash. Full Metal Body only protects from effects that lower stat stages, so it does not prevent stat reduction from items like the Iron Ball, the status conditions paralysis or burn, or the moves Guard Split or Power Split. Full Metal Body does not prevent stat stages being directly modified by Haze, Clear Smog, Heart Swap, Guard Swap, Power Swap, Baton Pass, or Topsy-Turvy. It does not prevent Spectral Thief from stealing (i.e. resetting) positive stat changes. Unlike White Smoke and Clear Body, this Ability cannot be ignored by moves or Abilities. It can still be changed or suppressed.

Title: Shadow Shield (Ability)

Shadow Shield (Japanese: ファントムガード Phantom Guard) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature Ability of Lunala. Shadow Shield reduces damage taken from damage-dealing moves by half when at maximum HP. It does not reduce the amount of HP taken from moves that deal direct damage. When hit with a multistrike move at maximum HP, only the first hit will have its damage reduced. All further hits will deal full damage. Unlike Multiscale, this Ability cannot be ignored by moves or Abilities. It can still be changed or suppressed.

Title: Prism Armor (Ability)

Prism Armor (Japanese: プリズムアーマー Prism Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the signature Abilities of Necrozma. Prism Armor reduces damage from supereffective moves by 25%, regardless of the effectiveness multiplier. For example, a move that would do 2× damage will do 1.5× damage instead. Unlike Solid Rock and Filter, this Ability cannot be ignored by moves or Abilities. However, like Solid Rock and Filter, this Ability can still be changed or suppressed.

Title: Neuroforce (Ability)

Neuroforce (Japanese: ブレインフォース Brain Force) is an Ability introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is one of the signature Abilities of Necrozma. Pokémon with Neuroforce deal 25% more damage with supereffective moves, regardless of the effectiveness multiplier. Neuroforce is the last Generation VII Ability in index number order.

Title: Intrepid Sword (Ability)

Intrepid Sword (Japanese: ふとうのけん Unbending Sword) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Zacian. Intrepid Sword raises the Attack stat of the Pokémon with this Ability by one stage when it enters the battle. Intrepid Sword is the first Generation VIII Ability in index number order.

Title: Dauntless Shield (Ability)

Dauntless Shield (Japanese: ふくつのたて Indomitable Shield) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Zamazenta. Dauntless Shield raises the Defense stat of the Pokémon with this Ability by one stage when it enters the battle.

Title: Libero (Ability)

Libero (Japanese: リベロ Libero) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Scorbunny's evolutionary line. Immediately before using any move (except Struggle), a Pokémon with Libero as its Ability will change its type to be the same type as the move it is using. Libero always causes the user to become a single-type Pokémon. Because Libero activates prior to executing a move, the user will receive same-type attack bonus on every move it uses (except Struggle) regardless of the move's type and will always hit with the move Toxic. When using a move that calls another move (such as Nature Power), the type of the called move will be considered. When using a move that can change type or if the move has been affected by Electrify, the type it changes to will be considered. When using a move that changes the user's type, such as Reflect Type, first Libero changes the user's type to the type of the move, then the move will either fail or change the user's type again. When using Curse (unless its type is changed by Electrify), if the user is not already Ghost-type prior to the activation of Libero, Libero will change the user to Ghost-type, then the user will use the Ghost-type effect of Curse on itself (regardless of Follow Me, Rage Powder, or Crafty Shield). Libero will not activate if the execution is interrupted entirely and the move's name isn't announced (such as by the effect of infatuation or confusion), if the move is prevented by Powder, heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, Dazzling, or Queenly Majesty, or if the user is already the same single type as the move being used. Libero will activate even if the move misses, has no effect because of the target's type, or is blocked by a protection move. Libero usually will activate if the move fails. However, these moves check for success before Libero activates, so they prevent Libero from activating if they fail. Counter, Mirror Coat, and Metal Burst (if the user was not hit by an attack) Explosion, Self-Destruct, Mind Blown, and Misty Explosion (if a Pokémon has Damp) Rest (if the user has full HP, is asleep, or has Insomnia, Vital Spirit, or Comatose) Teleport (if the user has no allies or if all allies have fainted) Protection moves (if the user moved last or successfully used a protection move on the previous turn) Destiny Bond (if the user successfully used Destiny Bond on the previous turn) Future Sight and Doom Desire (if the target is currently targeted by Future Sight or Doom Desire) Fake Out, Mat Block, and First Impression (if it is not the user's first turn) Follow Me and Rage Powder (if it is a single battle) Spit Up and Swallow (if the user has no stockpiles) Last Resort (if the user hasn't used all of its other moves, knows only Last Resort, or does not know Last Resort and used the move by calling it) Sucker Punch (if the target has already moved or did not select an attack) Clangorous Soul (if the user doesn't have enough HP to use the move) No Retreat (if the user has already successfully used No Retreat) The user's new type remains in effect until changed again or until the user is switched out; negating or replacing the Ability does not change the user back to their original type. Libero only activates once per switch in. If the user Terastallizes, the effects of Libero will be nullified, and Libero has no effect on Terastallized Pokémon. The name of the Ability may refer to the libero position in association football, also known as the sweeper or center-back.

Title: Ball Fetch (Ability)

Ball Fetch (Japanese: たまひろい Ball Fetch) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Yamper. At any time after the first Poké Ball is thrown and fails to catch a Pokémon, at the end of a turn, if a Pokémon with Ball Fetch is on the field and not holding another item, it will pick up the same type of ball as the first one thrown. This can only occur once in a battle. Along with Honey Gather, Battery, and Wimp Out, Ball Fetch is one of four signature Abilities to have been given to only a pre-evolved Pokémon in its debut.

Title: Cotton Down (Ability)

Cotton Down (Japanese: わたげ Cotton Down) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Gossifleur and Eldegoss. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a damaging move, the Speed of all other Pokémon is decreased by one stage. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move (such as Fury Swipes), each hit activates this Ability. In Pokémon UNITE, Cotton Down is Eldegoss's Ability. When receiving a certain amount of damage, the Ability causes user to recover HP, deal revenge damage, and decrease the enemies movement speed for a short time. This Ability has a 10s cooldown.

Title: Propeller Tail (Ability)

Propeller Tail (Japanese: スクリューおびれ Screw Tailfin) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Arrokuda and Barraskewda. Propeller Tail makes its user's moves ignore the target-redirecting effects of moves (e.g. Rage Powder, Follow Me, and Ally Switch) and Abilities (e.g. Storm Drain and Lightning Rod). In Gulp!! Gulp Pokémon, Casey's Arrokuda, Kilo, was revealed to have Propeller Tail as his Ability.

Title: Mirror Armor (Ability)

Mirror Armor (Japanese: ミラーアーマー Mirror Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Corviknight. Mirror Armor reflects the stat-lowering effects of moves and Abilities back to the user. Mirror Armor cannot reflect the stat-lowering effect of Octolock or an effect that was just reflected by an opponent's Mirror Armor. Stat-lowering effects of moves reflected by Magic Bounce are still reflected back. If multiple Pokémon, including the Pokémon with this Ability, would have their stats lowered by the same effect, only the stat drop that would have applied to the Pokémon with this Ability is reflected. If the Pokémon with this Ability is affected by Sticky Web, the effect is reflected back to the Pokémon which set it up. If Pokémon which set up Sticky Web is not on the field, no Pokémon have their Speed lowered.

Title: Gulp Missile (Ability)

Gulp Missile (Japanese: うのミサイル Gulp Missile) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Cramorant. If a Cramorant with Gulp Missile uses Surf or Dive, it catches prey and changes its form depending on its remaining HP. If its HP is over half, it catches an Arrokuda and changes into its Gulping Form. If its HP is under half, it instead catches a Pikachu and changes into its Gorging Form. If hit by an attack in either form, Cramorant spits out its catch at the attacker, dealing damage equal to ¼ of the attacker's maximum HP and inflicting a secondary effect depending on its catch: Arrokuda lowers the attacker's Defense by one stage, while Pikachu paralyzes it. Cramorant returns to its base form after spitting out its catch. If the attacker has Magic Guard, it will take no damage, but still trigger the cutscene and take the Defense drop or paralysis. If Cramorant Dynamaxes while it has a catch in its mouth, it reverts to its base form (without spitting its catch). Even if a Dynamaxed Cramorant uses Surf or Dive (only possible as a wild Pokémon in a Max Raid Battle), it will not change into its Gulping or Gorging Form. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has Gulp Missile. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Gulp Missile. Gulp Missile cannot be copied by Trace or replace Receiver. Gulp Missile cannot be suppressed by Neutralizing Gas. Gulp Missile cannot be replaced by Mummy or Lingering Aroma. If a Pokémon with Imposter copies a Cramorant, or a Pokémon with Transform transforms into a Cramorant, Gulp Missile will not activate when using Surf or Dive. Starting from Version 3.0.0 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Gulp Missile can now be copied by Trace, be swapped using Skill Swap or Wandering Spirit, and replace Receiver. In Pokémon UNITE, Gulp Missile is Cramorant's Ability. When the user has prey in its mouth, it will counterattack upon taking damage from an enemy. Alternatively, the user can shoot the prey at its enemy as a boosted basic attack. The prey bounces to one nearby enemy.

Title: Stalwart (Ability)

Stalwart redirects here. For the skill in Pokémon Masters EX, see Stalwart (Skill). Stalwart (Japanese: すじがねいり Staunch) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Duraludon and Archaludon. Stalwart makes its user's moves ignore the target-redirecting effects of moves (e.g. Rage Powder, Follow Me, and Ally Switch) and Abilities (e.g. Storm Drain and Lightning Rod).

Title: Steam Engine (Ability)

Steam Engine (Japanese: じょうききかん Steam Engine) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Rolycoly's evolutionary line. When a Pokémon with Steam Engine is hit by a Fire- or Water-type move, its Speed stat is increased by six stages. This Ability activates after any stat decreases caused by the move are applied. If a Pokémon with Steam Engine is in the party (even if fainted), the number of cycles it takes for all Pokémon Eggs in the party to hatch are halved. This effect does not stack with itself, Flame Body, or Magma Armor.

Title: Punk Rock (Ability)

Punk Rock (Japanese: パンクロック Punk Rock) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Toxtricity. Punk Rock boosts the power of the Pokémon's sound-based moves by 30% (precisely, 5325/4096). A Pokémon with Punk Rock also takes half damage from damaging sound-based moves. The table below lists the moves affected by Punk Rock, as well as the Pokémon that can have Punk Rock and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Punk Rock. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Punk Rock by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. Casey's Low Key Form Toxtricity, Tera, is revealed to have Punk Rock as his Ability.

Title: Sand Spit (Ability)

Sand Spit (Japanese: すなはき Sand Spit) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Silicobra and Sandaconda. Sand Spit summons a sandstorm in battle for five turns when a Pokémon with Sand Spit is hit by a damaging move, unless a sandstorm is already present. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Smooth Rock.

Title: Ice Scales (Ability)

Ice Scales (Japanese: こおりのりんぷん Ice Scales) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Snom and Frosmoth. Ice Scales halves damage from special moves that hit Pokémon with this Ability, including from special moves that use the target's Defense stat (like Psyshock). It has no effect on moves that deal direct damage.

Title: Ripen (Ability)

Ripen (Japanese: じゅくせい Ripen) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Applin, Flapple, and Appletun. Ripen doubles the effects from held Berries when eaten in battle, including when a Pokémon with Ripen is targeted by a flung Berry. This affects Berries that restore HP or PP (such as Figy Berry and Leppa Berry), Berries that reduce damage (such as Occa Berry), Berries that raise stats (except for Lansat Berry), and Berries that deal damage to Pokémon attacking the holder (such as Rowap Berry). Ripen does not affect the status condition-healing Berries (e.g. Persim Berry or Lum Berry), the Lansat Berry (i.e. Ripen will not make it increase the critical hit stage by 4), the Micle Berry, or the Custap Berry (although it will still show the message). Due to a glitch, when a Pokémon with Ripen uses certain non-Berry items or is targeted by a flung item that inflicts a secondary effect, Ripen displays a message and plays its animation, but has no other effect. The items affected are as below:

Title: Ice Face (Ability)

Ice Face (Japanese: アイスフェイス Ice Face) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Eiscue. When an Eiscue that's in its Ice Face form is hit by a physical move, it takes no damage and changes into its Noice Face form. If a hailstorm or snowstorm begins while Eiscue is in its Noice Face form, or if it is sent out in its Noice Face form during hail or snow, it will immediately revert to its Ice Face form. Eiscue will not revert to its Ice Face form if there is already hail or snow when it changes into its Noice Face form. This form change persists even when Eiscue is switched out, but is undone at the end of the battle. Ice Face does not protect against special moves such as Psyshock, Psystrike, or Secret Sword. Gastro Acid, Worry Seed, and Simple Beam fail if the target has Ice Face. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Ice Face. Ice Face cannot be copied by Trace or replace Power of Alchemy or Receiver. Ice Face cannot be suppressed by Neutralizing Gas, traded by Wandering Spirit, or replaced by Lingering Aroma or Mummy. Ice Face debuted as an Ability in the Pokémon Trading Card Game with Eiscue from the Rebel Clash expansion. If a Pokémon with this Ability has full HP, the damage it takes from attacks from the opponent's Pokémon is reduced by a set amount (after applying Weakness and Resistance). The following is a list of Pokémon cards with the Ice Face Ability.

Title: Power Spot (Ability)

If you were looking for the places where Dynamaxing is possible, see Dynamax. Power Spot (Japanese: パワースポット Power Spot) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Stonjourner. The power of moves used by the allies of the Pokémon with Power Spot is increased by 30%. The term "power spot" means a place believed to contain sacred power and oftentimes a special healing property. This Ability is the signature Ability of Stonjourner, which is based on Stonehenge, an area considered to be a power spot.

Title: Mimicry (Ability)

Mimicry (Japanese: ぎたい Mimicry) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Galarian Stunfisk. Depending on the terrain, Mimicry will change the type of a Pokémon with this Ability. Its type changes as follows: During Electric Terrain, it will become a pure Electric type. During Grassy Terrain, it will become a pure Grass type. During Misty Terrain, it will become a pure Fairy type. During Psychic Terrain, it will become a pure Psychic type. When the terrain disappears, the Pokémon reverts to its original typing. (Transformed Pokémon with Mimicry revert to their own original typing before transforming, not the typing of the Pokémon it transformed into.) Mimicry activates after the Pokémon with Mimicry is switched in while terrain is present, or whenever there is a change in terrain; changing the Pokémon's type by other means (such as via Soak) overrides the type caused by Mimicry. Mimicry will activate regardless of whether the Pokémon with Mimicry is grounded or not. If the Pokémon with Mimicry has an additional type due to Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat, when terrain triggers Mimicry, it will normally only change its regular types and not affect the additional types. However, if the Pokémon is already Grass-type due to Forest's Curse when it becomes Grass-type due to Grassy Terrain, the effect of Forest's Curse disappears. Casey's Galarian Stunfisk, Mega, is revealed to have Mimicry as his Ability.

Title: Screen Cleaner (Ability)

Screen Cleaner (Japanese: バリアフリー Barrier-Free) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Galarian Mr. Mime and Mr. Rime. When a Pokémon with Screen Cleaner is sent out, the effects of Light Screen, Reflect, and Aurora Veil end on both sides of the field. Henry's Mr. Rime, Kayne, was revealed to have Screen Cleaner as his Ability.

Title: Steely Spirit (Ability)

Steely Spirit (Japanese: はがねのせいしん Steely Spirit) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Perrserker. The power of Steel-type moves used by a Pokémon with Steely Spirit and its allies is increased by 50%. This effect stacks if multiple Pokémon with this Ability are on the field. Doom Desire counts as an allied move even if its user is no longer on the field at the time it hits.

Title: Perish Body (Ability)

Perish Body (Japanese: ほろびのボディ Perish Body) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Cursola. When the Pokémon with Perish Body is hit with a contact move, both the attacker and the Pokémon with Perish Body will faint in three turns. If the attacker already has a perish count or is wearing Protective Pads or has Long Reach, the Ability does not affect anyone.

Title: Wandering Spirit (Ability)

Wandering Spirit (Japanese: さまようたましい Wandering Spirit) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Galarian Yamask and Runerigus. When a Pokémon with Wandering Spirit is hit by a contact move, it exchanges Abilities with the attacker. If a Pokémon affected by Wandering Spirit is switched out, it regains its original Ability. The Ability will trigger even if the Pokémon with Wandering Spirit faints from the attacking move. The Ability will not trigger if the attacking Pokémon is Dynamaxed. Wandering Spirit does not work on the following Abilities: As One, Battle Bond, Comatose, Commander, Disguise, Flower Gift, Forecast, Gulp Missile, Hunger Switch, Ice Face, Illusion, Imposter, Multitype, Neutralizing Gas, Power of Alchemy, Receiver, RKS System, Schooling, Shields Down, Stance Change, Wonder Guard, Zen Mode, and Zero to Hero.

Title: Gorilla Tactics (Ability)

Gorilla Tactics (Japanese: ごりむちゅう Obsessed Gorilla) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the signature Abilities of Galarian Darmanitan. Gorilla Tactics boosts the Pokémon's Attack by 50%, but limits the Pokémon to using only one move, similar to the Choice Band. This effect stacks with Choice items, meaning a Pokémon with this Ability and a Choice Band will have its Attack boosted to 225%. Gorilla Tactics temporarily stops working if the user is Dynamaxed. The Zen Mode form of Galarian Darmanitan inherits all of Galarian Standard Mode's Abilities upon transformation; however, it can only transform if it has the Ability Zen Mode. Therefore, Gorilla Tactics is unobtainable. In most languages, Gorilla Tactics's name include some level of wordplay: In English, it is a play on gorilla and "guerrilla tactics". Its Japanese name combines 五里霧中 gorimuchū (a saying meaning "lost in a fog") with ゴリラ gorira (gorilla) and 夢中 muchū (obsessed). In Chinese, the 心 xīn (heart) in 一心一意 (wholeheartedly) is replaced with 猩 xīng (gorilla). Its Spanish name literally translates to "monotheme", reflecting the Ability's effect of locking the Pokémon into using one move, while also containing mono, the Spanish word for monkey.

Title: Neutralizing Gas (Ability)

Neutralizing Gas (Japanese: かがくへんかガス Chemical Change Gas) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Koffing's evolutionary line. Neutralizing Gas suppresses the effects of Abilities of other Pokémon currently in battle that are not holding an Ability Shield. When a Pokémon with Neutralizing Gas switches in, the Ability displays a message, even before entry hazards take effect. Once Neutralizing Gas is no longer applying, Abilities that activate when gained (i.e. Abilities that activate when a Pokémon is switched in, such as Intimidate) immediately pop up an activation message regardless of whether they have already done so, with the exceptions of Unnerve (which still applies but without displaying a message) and Imposter (which only activates when switched in, not when gained). If Neutralizing Gas stops applying because the Pokémon with Neutralizing Gas is about to switch out, those Abilities activate before the switch occurs (e.g. if Intimidate is activated this way, it will decrease the Attack of the Pokémon with Neutralizing Gas before it switches out, rather than decreasing the Attack of the Pokémon who switches in to replace it). Neutralizing Gas cannot suppress another Pokémon's Neutralizing Gas, Multitype, Zen Mode, Stance Change, Power Construct, Schooling, RKS System, Shields Down, Battle Bond, Comatose, Disguise, Gulp Missile, Ice Face, As One, or Tera Shift. Neutralizing Gas cannot be copied by Trace, Role Play, or Doodle. Neutralizing Gas cannot be swapped by Skill Swap or Wandering Spirit. Entrainment fails if the user has Neutralizing Gas, but can succeed even if the target has Neutralizing Gas. However, Neutralizing Gas can be replaced (e.g. by Worry Seed) or suppressed (e.g. by Gastro Acid) like any other Ability, except that it cannot be suppressed by itself or by another instance of Neutralizing Gas. Neutralizing Gas shares its Japanese name with a Pokémon Power which has a similar effect.

Title: Pastel Veil (Ability)

Pastel Veil (Japanese: パステルベール Pastel Veil) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Galarian Ponyta and Galarian Rapidash. Pastel Veil prevents the Pokémon with this Ability and its allies from being afflicted by poison. It also heals the poisoned status condition of allies if a Pokémon with this Ability is sent out into battle.

Title: Hunger Switch (Ability)

Hunger Switch (Japanese: はらぺこスイッチ Hunger Switch) is an Ability introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature Ability of Morpeko. At the end of each turn, Hunger Switch switches a Morpeko with the Ability between its Full Belly Mode and Hangry Mode. In Full Belly Mode, Aura Wheel is an Electric-type move; in Hangry Mode, it is a Dark-type move. Entrainment and Role Play fails if the user has Hunger Switch. Hunger Switch cannot be copied by Trace or traded by Wandering Spirit. Power of Alchemy and Receiver cannot be replaced by Hunger Switch. If Morpeko's Hunger Switch is negated or replaced, it remains in its current form. If a Pokémon other than Morpeko obtains Hunger Switch with Transform or Imposter, the Pokémon will not change forms. Hunger Switch does not activate while Morpeko is Terastallized. While Terastallized, Morpeko does not change forms even when switched out. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Abilities do not occur in normal gameplay. However, Morpeko will change between Full Belly Mode and Hangry Mode upon using Aura Wheel. Marnie's Morpeko was confirmed to have Hunger Switch via the Official Anime Pokémon Twitter.

Title: Quick Draw (Ability)

Quick Draw (Japanese: クイックドロウ Quick Draw) is an Ability introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is the signature Ability of Galarian Slowbro. If a Pokémon with this Ability selects a damaging move, it has a 30% chance of going first in its priority bracket. If the Ability activates, this is announced at the start of the turn (after move selection). This probability is separate to the probability of a held Quick Claw activating, although if Quick Draw activates, a held Quick Claw will not. If a Pokémon has both Quick Draw and a Quick Claw and uses a damaging move, it has a 44% chance of either activating. A Pokémon's held Custap Berry will never activate on a turn in which its Quick Draw activates, but it may still activate in a later turn in which its Quick Draw does not activate. If either Quick Draw or Quick Claw activate on the same turn for multiple different Pokémon, their moves are performed in standard Speed order within their priority bracket.

Title: Unseen Fist (Ability)

Unseen Fist (Japanese: ふかしのこぶし Invisible Fist) is an Ability introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is the signature Ability of Urshifu. Unseen Fist causes contact moves used by the Pokémon to hit targets through protection moves, except Max Guard. This applies even if the user is holding Protective Pads, but does not apply if the user is holding a Punching Glove, as it turns punching moves into non-contact moves. The table below lists the moves affected by Unseen Fist, as well as the forms of Urshifu that can learn those moves. Due to a glitch, Galarian Slowking transferred from Pokémon GO to Pokémon HOME using the GO Transporter gained Unseen Fist from June 11 to December 14, 2022. This glitch was subsequently resolved, and any Slowking in or deposited into HOME with Unseen Fist will have their Ability corrected to Curious Medicine.

Title: Curious Medicine (Ability)

Curious Medicine (Japanese: きみょうなくすり Curious Medicine) is an Ability introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature Ability of Galarian Slowking. When a Pokémon with this Ability enters the battle, stat stages of ally Pokémon are reset to 0. Due to a glitch, Galarian Slowking transferred from Pokémon GO to Pokémon HOME using the GO Transporter gained Unseen Fist from June 11 to December 14, 2022. This glitch was subsequently resolved and any Slowking in or deposited into HOME with Unseen Fist will have their Ability corrected to Curious Medicine.

Title: Transistor (Ability)

Transistor (Japanese: トランジスタ Transistor) is an Ability introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature Ability of Regieleki. If an Electric-type move is used by a Pokémon with this Ability, its Attack or Special Attack stat is multiplied by 1.5 during damage calculation, effectively increasing damage dealt by 50%. The attacking stat multiplier has now been reduced to ~1.3 (5325/4096). Transistor is the only variation of Steelworker that does not increase the attacking stats by a multiplier of 1.5 (though it used to, in Generation VIII).

Title: Chilling Neigh (Ability)

Chilling Neigh (Japanese: しろのいななき White Neigh) is an Ability introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature Ability of Glastrier. When a Pokémon with Chilling Neigh directly causes another Pokémon (including allies) to faint by using a damaging move, its Attack is increased by one stage. If its Attack is already at +6 stages, Chilling Neigh will not activate.

Title: Grim Neigh (Ability)

Grim Neigh (Japanese: くろのいななき Black Neigh) is an Ability introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature Ability of Spectrier. When a Pokémon with Grim Neigh directly causes another Pokémon (including allies) to faint by using a damaging move, its Special Attack is increased by one stage. If its Special Attack is already at +6 stages, Grim Neigh will not activate.

Title: Lingering Aroma (Ability)

Lingering Aroma (Japanese: とれないにおい Lingering Scent) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of male Oinkologne. When a Pokémon with Lingering Aroma is hit by a contact move, the attacker's Ability is changed to Lingering Aroma. The attacker regains its original Ability once it is switched out, faints, or the battle ends. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a multistrike move that makes contact (such as Fury Swipes), the attacking Pokémon's Ability will become Lingering Aroma after the first strike. If a Pokémon with Rock Head uses a recoil contact move on a Pokémon with Lingering Aroma, its Ability will become Lingering Aroma, then subsequently it will take recoil damage. Multitype, Zen Mode, Stance Change, Shields Down, Schooling, Disguise, Battle Bond, Power Construct, Comatose, RKS System, Gulp Missile, Ice Face, As One, Zero to Hero, Commander, Tera Shift, Mummy, and Lingering Aroma itself are not affected by Lingering Aroma. Lingering Aroma is the first Generation IX Ability in index number order. Lingering Aroma is the only signature Ability to be specific to one gender of its owning species. Female Oinkologne may instead have the Ability Aroma Veil, the same as its pre-evolved form. Lingering Aroma being specific to male Oinkologne may be a reference to how male pigs in real life produce an odor called boar taint when they hit puberty from a gland that develops when they mature, this scent and gland being absent from female pigs.

Title: Seed Sower (Ability)

Seed Sower (Japanese: こぼれダネ Self-Sowing Seeds) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Arboliva. When a Pokémon with Seed Sower is hit by a damaging move, it summons Grassy Terrain for five turns, unless Grassy Terrain is already present. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Terrain Extender. If hit by a multistrike move, the first strike will activate it. Seed Sower activates before the effect of the moves Steel Roller and Ice Spinner is triggered, thus removing the grassy terrain.

Title: Thermal Exchange (Ability)

Thermal Exchange (Japanese: ねつこうかん Thermal Exchange) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Frigibax's evolutionary line. When a Pokémon with Thermal Exchange is hit by a Fire-type damaging move, its Attack is increased by one stage. It does not provide immunity or reduction to the damage. It also prevents the Pokémon from being burned. This Ability does not activate if the substitute is hit. A Pokémon with this Ability will be cured of burn if it is burned while in battle (such as if it gains the Ability outside of battle or by an effect like Skill Swap, or is burned by a Pokémon with an Ability like Mold Breaker).

Title: Anger Shell (Ability)

Anger Shell (Japanese: いかりのこうら Anger Shell) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Klawf. When the Pokémon's HP falls from over 50% to 50% or lower as a result of an attack from another Pokémon, its Attack, Special Attack, and Speed rise by one stage each, while its Defense and Special Defense fall by one stage each. Non-attack damage (e.g., due to a status condition, recoil, or Life Orb) does not activate Anger Shell. If hit by a multistrike move, Anger Shell activates only after all strikes are finished.

Title: Purifying Salt (Ability)

Purifying Salt (Japanese: きよめのしお Purifying Salt) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Nacli's evolutionary line. Purifying Salt grants the Pokémon immunity from all non-volatile status conditions and halves the Attack and Special Attack of an attacking Pokémon during damage calculation if targeted by a Ghost-type move. Rest fails if used by a Pokémon with Purifying Salt. If the Pokémon has a status condition and gains this Ability, the status condition will not be cured and remains in effect. The Ability's effect of reducing the damage done by Ghost-type attacks may reference the Japanese belief that salt can be used as a purifier and cleanser, and to ward off evil spirits. Additionally, the Ability's effect of giving immunity to status conditions may reference how salt was used in remedies to heal and protect against diseases, particularly by the ancient Egyptians and Greeks.

Title: Wind Rider (Ability)

Wind Rider (Japanese: かぜのり Wind Riding) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. Pokémon with Wind Rider are immune to damage from wind moves, and their Attack is increased by one stage when hit by one. When Tailwind takes effect on its side or when the Pokémon with Wind Rider is sent into battle while Tailwind is in effect on its side, its Attack is increased by one stage in addition to receiving the speed-boosting effect of Tailwind. Despite being classified as a wind move, Sandstorm, due to the move targeting the field, is the only one that does not interact with Wind Rider at all. Prior to Generation IX, Shiftry had Early Bird instead of Wind Rider.

Title: Guard Dog (Ability)

Guard Dog (Japanese: ばんけん Guard Dog) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. This Ability prevents other Pokémon from forcing the Pokémon with this Ability to switch out or flee with a move (e.g. Roar, Circle Throw, etc.) or item (Red Card). Guard Dog does not affect the Pokémon switching out manually, or switching out or fleeing with its own move (e.g. Baton Pass, Teleport, etc.) or item (Eject Button and Eject Pack). Additionally, if a Pokémon with this ability is affected by Intimidate, its Attack stat will increase by one stage, rather than decreasing by one stage.

Title: Rocky Payload (Ability)

Rocky Payload (Japanese: いわはこび Rock Transport) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Bombirdier. If a Rock-type move is used by a Pokémon with this Ability, its Attack or Special Attack stat is multiplied by 1.5 during damage calculation, effectively increasing damage dealt by 50%.

Title: Wind Power (Ability)

Wind Power (Japanese: ふうりょくでんき Wind-Powered Electricity) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Wattrel and Kilowattrel. When a Pokémon with Wind Power is hit by a wind move or when Tailwind takes effect, it becomes charged, boosting the power of the next Electric-type move it uses. When this Ability is triggered, the message "Being hit by <move> charged <name> with power!" is displayed, even if it causes the Pokémon with Wind Power to faint. If the opposing wind move causes the Pokémon to faint, Wind Power displays the message before the Pokémon faints. Despite being classified as a wind move, Sandstorm, due to the move targeting the field, is the only one that does not interact with Wind Power at all.

Title: Commander (Ability)

If you were looking for the Trainer class, see Commander (Trainer class). Commander (Japanese: しれいとう Commander) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Tatsugiri. When a Tatsugiri with Commander is on the same side of the field as a Dondozo, it will enter the Dondozo's mouth and the Dondozo will have its Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed raised by two stages each. While Tatsugiri is inside Dondozo's mouth, the latter will be unable to switch out (even if Tatsugiri faints) and cannot be forced out. A held Red Card can still be consumed, but will have no effect. The Trainer will not be able to select moves for Tatsugiri, and any opponent's moves (even if it has No Guard) will miss if Tatsugiri is targeted. Tatsugiri will continue to take damage from sandstorms, as well as status conditions (such as poison) if it has already gained one prior to entering Dondozo's mouth, and the effect of Perish Song will continue normally. If Dondozo is switched in when Tatsugiri is already on the field, Commander will immediately activate and cancel Tatsugiri's selected move; any moves targeting Tatsugiri that turn will also miss. When Dondozo faints, Tatsugiri returns to its normal position in battle. Commander will not reactivate if Tatsugiri faints and is replaced with another Tatsugiri with Commander; however, Commander can reactivate if Dondozo is revived after fainting. The move Order Up will give Dondozo a stat boost when used, based on the form of Tatsugiri inside its mouth: Curly Form Tatsugiri increases Attack by one stage. Droopy Form Tatsugiri increases Defense by one stage. Stretchy Form Tatsugiri increases Speed by one stage. Commander does not activate in Multi Battles and Tera Raid Battles. Gastro Acid and Worry Seed fail if the target has the Ability Commander. Role Play, Skill Swap, Entrainment, and Doodle fail if either Pokémon has Commander. Commander cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. It can however be replaced by Simple Beam. Commander cannot be replaced by Lingering Aroma. Imposter can successfully Transform into a Tatsugiri in Dondozo's mouth. If Dondozo has the ability Contrary, all stats will be lowered instead of raised. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Abilities do not occur in normal gameplay. However, if Dondozo enters battle while a Tatsugiri that is not Mega-Evolved or fainted is also in the party, Tatsugiri will enter Dondozo's mouth, increasing all of Dondozo's stats and preventing it from being recalled until it is no longer in battle. If multiple valid Tatsugiri are in the party, Dondozo will swallow the leftmost one in party order.

Title: Electromorphosis (Ability)

Electromorphosis (Japanese: でんきにかえる Change into Electricity) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Bellibolt. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a move, it becomes charged, boosting the power of the next Electric-type move it uses. If hit by a multistrike move, each hit triggers the Ability, but the charges do not stack. When this Ability is triggered, the message "Being hit by <move> charged <name> with power!" is displayed, even if it causes the Pokémon with Electromorphosis to faint. If the opposing move causes the Pokémon to faint, Electromorphosis displays the message before the Pokémon faints. This Ability's Japanese name comprises a pun: かえる kaeru can be taken as a verb, 変える (to change); or as a noun, 蛙 (frog). This may explain the fact that it is signature to the EleFrog Pokémon, Bellibolt. Its English name derives from a combination of electro- and metamorphosis. In Showdown! The Paldea Elite Four, Jacq describes Electromorphosis as the way Bellibolt is able to generate and store electricity after its abs shake from an impact.

Title: Protosynthesis (Ability)

Protosynthesis (Japanese: こだいかっせい Ancient Activation) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of the ancient Paradox Pokémon with the exception of Koraidon. When a Pokémon with Protosynthesis is in harsh sunlight or is holding Booster Energy, its highest stat (other than HP and taking into account stat stages, but not held items) is increased by 30%, or 50% if Speed is the highest stat. Upon activation, a message tells which stat is increased to all of the players. If multiple stats are tied for highest, Protosynthesis breaks the tie by prioritizing Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed, in that order. Protosynthesis will activate in harsh sunlight even if the Pokémon is holding a Utility Umbrella, but not if a Pokémon with Air Lock or Cloud Nine is on the field. Harsh sunlight will activate Protosynthesis before a held Booster Energy, so the Booster Energy will not be consumed if the Pokémon with Protosynthesis is in harsh sunlight. If activated by weather, the effect of Protosynthesis will end when the field is no longer affected by harsh sunlight. Protosynthesis's stat increase cannot be passed by Baton Pass. Skill Swap and Doodle will fail if either Pokémon has Protosynthesis. Role Play will fail if the target has Protosynthesis; however, Simple Beam, Worry Seed, and Entrainment will work. Protosynthesis cannot be copied by Receiver, Trace, or Power of Alchemy. If a Pokémon obtains Protosynthesis with Imposter or Transform, the Ability will not activate regardless of if the Pokémon is in harsh sunlight or holding a Booster Energy. The greatest difference between a Pokémon’s individual base stats so that this Ability can activate for any stat without external stat changes is 72 points. This assumes that maximum effort values, 31 individual values, and a helpful Nature was applied to the lowest stat and 0 effort and individual values with a hindering Nature to the highest stat. Because of how the stat calculations work due to their base stats, the following Pokémon cannot have Protosynthesis boost the following stat in battle without stat changes taking place. This accounts for with a negative Nature and 0 individual and effort values applied to the stat that will be higher by default and a positive Nature, 31 individual values, and maximum effort values applied to the stat that cannot be increased. Great Tusk cannot increase Special Attack or Special Defense, as its Attack and Defense will always be higher. Brute Bonnet cannot increase Speed, as its Attack will always be higher unless it is level 27 or lower, and it cannot be obtained at levels below 55. Flutter Mane cannot increase Attack or Defense, as the rest of its stats (both Special stats and Speed) will always be higher. Roaring Moon cannot increase Special Attack, as its Attack will always be higher.

Title: Quark Drive (Ability)

Quark Drive (Japanese: クォークチャージ Quark Charge) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of the futuristic Paradox Pokémon with the exception of Miraidon. When a Pokémon with Quark Drive is on the field and Electric Terrain is active, or the Pokémon is holding Booster Energy, its highest stat (other than HP and taking into account stat stages, but not held items) is increased by 30%, or 50% if Speed is the highest stat. Upon activation, a message tells which stat is increased to all of the players. If multiple stats are tied for highest, Quark Drive breaks the tie by prioritizing Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed, in that order. Quark Drive will activate even if the Pokémon is not grounded. Electric Terrain will activate Quark Drive before a held Booster Energy, so the Booster Energy will not be consumed if the Pokémon with Quark Drive is on Electric Terrain. If activated by terrain, the effect of Quark Drive will end when the field is no longer affected by Electric Terrain. Quark Drive's stat increase cannot be passed by Baton Pass. Skill Swap and Doodle will fail if either Pokémon has Quark Drive. Role Play will fail if the target has Quark Drive; however, Simple Beam, Worry Seed, and Entrainment will work. Quark Drive cannot be copied by Receiver, Trace, or Power of Alchemy. If a Pokémon obtains Quark Drive with Imposter or Transform, the Ability will not activate regardless of if the Pokémon is on Electric Terrain or holding a Booster Energy. This Ability's name refers to quarks, a type of sub-atomic particle. The greatest difference between a Pokémon’s individual base stats so that this Ability can activate for any stat without external stat changes is 72 points. This assumes that maximum effort values, 31 individual values, and a helpful Nature was applied to the lowest stat and 0 effort and individual values with a hindering Nature to the highest stat. Because of how the stat calculations work due to their base stats, the following Pokémon cannot have Quark Drive boost the following stat in battle without stat changes taking place. This accounts for with a negative Nature and 0 individual and effort values applied to the stat that will be higher by default and a positive Nature, 31 individual values, and maximum effort values applied to the stat that cannot be increased. Iron Bundle cannot increase Special Defense, as its Speed will always be higher. Iron Hands cannot increase Special Attack or Speed, as its Attack will always be higher. Iron Moth cannot increase Defense, as its Special Attack will always be higher. Iron Valiant cannot increase Special Defense, as either its Attack or Special Attack will always be higher.

Title: Orichalcum Pulse (Ability)

Orichalcum Pulse (Japanese: ひひいろのこどう Hihiirokane Pulse) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Koraidon. Orichalcum Pulse summons harsh sunlight in battle as soon as a Pokémon with Orichalcum Pulse enters the battle. Its effects are the same as the move Sunny Day, which lasts for five turns. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Heat Rock. Orichalcum Pulse also boosts the Pokémon's Attack stat by roughly 33% (or more precisely, by a factor of 5461/4096) in harsh sunlight. This boost will occur even if the Pokémon is holding a Utility Umbrella. Orichalcum Pulse displays a message when the Pokémon enters the battle, even if there already is harsh sunlight. However, if harsh sunlight is summoned or has faded while a Pokémon with Orichalcum Pulse already is in battle, no message is displayed (contrary to Protosynthesis). Skill Swap fails if either Pokémon has Orichalcum Pulse. Trace can copy Orichalcum Pulse. Role Play, Entrainment, and Doodle all fail when used on a target with Orichalcum Pulse. Orichalcum Pulse is affected by Simple Beam, Mummy, and Lingering Aroma. Orichalcum Pulse will fail if overworld weather is present. Orichalcum Pulse's name refers to orichalcum, a mythological metal found in ancient Greek texts. Orichalcum Pulse's Japanese name refers to hihiirokane, a legendary metal found in Japanese texts and said to be harder than diamonds and to never rust. The word can also be spelled in kanji as 日緋色金 hihiirokane, meaning sun-scarlet metal, possibly referencing the Ability's effect to set up harsh sunlight and Koraidon's status as the game mascot of Pokémon Scarlet.

Title: Hadron Engine (Ability)

Hadron Engine (Japanese: ハドロンエンジン Hadron Engine) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Miraidon. Hadron Engine creates the effect of the move Electric Terrain on the battlefield as soon as a Pokémon with Hadron Engine enters the battle. The Electric Terrain lasts for five turns. This can be extended to eight turns if the Pokémon is holding a Terrain Extender. Hadron Engine also boosts the Pokémon's Special Attack stat by roughly 33% (or more precisely, by a factor of 5461/4096) on Electric Terrain. This boost will occur even if the Pokémon is not grounded. Hadron Engine displays a message when the Pokémon enters the battle, even if Electric Terrain is already present. However, if Electric Terrain is summoned while a Pokémon with Hadron Engine is already in battle, no message is displayed (contrary to Quark Drive). Skill Swap fails if either Pokémon has Hadron Engine. Trace can copy Hadron Engine. Role Play, Entrainment, and Doodle all fail when used on a target with Hadron Engine. Hadron Engine is affected by Simple Beam, Mummy, and Lingering Aroma.

Title: Opportunist (Ability)

If you were looking for the skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Opportunist. Opportunist (Japanese: びんじょう Opportunist) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Espathra. When an opposing Pokémon raises its stats, the Pokémon with this Ability will also raise the same stats by the same number of stages as the opposing Pokémon. This Ability does not activate when an ally Pokémon raises its stats, or when an opposing Pokémon raises its stats through Opportunist. Opportunist will trigger if an ally Pokémon uses Swagger or Flatter against an opposing Pokémon, after the confusion is applied. If multiple triggers happen at once (for example, Torch Song used by a Pokémon holding Throat Spray), Opportunist will sum them up.

Title: Cud Chew (Ability)

Cud Chew (Japanese: はんすう Cud Chew) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. If a Pokémon with Cud Chew eats a Berry or is affected by a Flung Berry, its effect will activate again at the end of the next turn. If a Pokémon eats multiple berries in a single turn, only the most recently eaten berry will be counted.

Title: Sharpness (Ability)

Sharpness (Japanese: きれあじ Sharpness) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. Sharpness boosts the strength of slicing moves used by a Pokémon with this Ability by 50%. The table below lists the moves affected by Sharpness, as well as the Pokémon that can have Sharpness and learn those moves. Although the following moves are affected by the Ability, they currently cannot be learned by any Pokémon with Sharpness. They may, however, be called via Metronome, Copycat, or Mimic, or be used by a Pokémon that gained Sharpness by an Ability like Trace or Receiver or a move such as Skill Swap or Role Play. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus' internal code, Hisuian Samurott's Hidden Ability is Shell Armor instead of Sharpness, and Kleavor's Hidden Ability is Steadfast instead of Sharpness. Due to their English names differing from their Japanese names, the English names of several slicing moves obscure why they are categorized as such. Aerial Ace's Japanese name is つばめがえし Swallow Return, referring to a sword technique. Population Bomb's name in Japanese is ネズミざん Nezumizan, which can be read as both ねずみ算 nezumizan (to multiply like mice; literally "mouse mathematics", a common arithmetic problem) and ねずみ斬 nezumizan (mouse cut).

Title: Supreme Overlord (Ability)

Supreme Overlord (Japanese: そうだいしょう Supreme Commander) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Kingambit. When a Pokémon with Supreme Overlord enters battle, it receives a 10% additive increase to the power of its moves for each ally Pokémon that is fainted in its party. The abilities in Pokémon Conquest known as "Hero" (おそれしらず Fearless) and "Last Bastion" (さいごのとりで Final Fortress) possess similar effects, where the user gains boosts to their Attack and Defense stats based on how many members of the player's party are currently defeated.

Title: Costar (Ability)

Costar (Japanese: きょうえん Costarring) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Flamigo. When a Pokémon with Costar enters the battle, it copies an ally's stat stages for itself. This includes the ally's critical-hit ratio.

Title: Toxic Debris (Ability)

Toxic Debris (Japanese: どくげしょう Scattered Poison) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Glimmet and Glimmora. When a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a physical move, Toxic Spikes are set on the opposing side of the field. If an attack would cause more than two layers of Toxic Spikes to be set or hits the substitute instead, the Ability does not activate. If a Pokémon with this Ability is hit by a physical multistrike move (such as Fury Swipes), each hit will activate this Ability. The stats shown above are the exact stats, not base stats. The values are custom set rather than derived from base stats, level, Nature, IVs, and EVs.

Title: Armor Tail (Ability)

Armor Tail (Japanese: テイルアーマー Tail Armor) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Farigiraf. If an opponent uses a move with increased priority (including moves boosted by Prankster, Gale Wings, or Triage) that targets the Pokémon with Armor Tail or its allies, Armor Tail prevents the Pokémon from executing that move, after PP is deducted from it. As such, the opponent can only use a move with decreased priority or a move without any to target the Pokémon with Armor Tail or its allies. Moves that target all Pokémon (except Perish Song) and moves that target the opponent's side of the field cannot be blocked by Armor Tail, even if they become moves with increased priority. Armor Tail has no effect on allies' moves with increased priority. Mold Breaker, Turboblaze, and Teravolt will ignore this Ability. Moves with increased priority that are called using Instruct retain their original priority and are blocked by Armor Tail. Moves with decreased priority and moves without any—both which are called using Instruct with increased priority (i.e.: the user with Prankster)—similarly retain their original priority and cannot be blocked. Moves with increased priority that are called using any moves that call other moves cannot be blocked by Armor Tail. If a move that calls other moves is used with increased priority, Armor Tail will block the called move regardless of its original priority.

Title: Earth Eater (Ability)

Earth Eater (Japanese: どしょく Geophagy) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Orthworm. When a Pokémon with Earth Eater is hit by a Ground-type move, its HP is restored by one quarter of its maximum HP, and the move will have no effect on that Pokémon (if a Pokémon with this Ability already has full HP, the Ground-type move will do nothing). Earth Eater will not activate if the Pokémon is protected from the Ground-type move. In PASV18, the Titan Orthworm was stated to have Earth Eater as its Ability.

Title: Mycelium Might (Ability)

Mycelium Might (Japanese: きんしのちから Hyphal Power) is an Ability introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature Ability of Toedscool and Toedscruel. When a Pokémon with Mycelium Might uses a status move, it always moves last within its priority bracket, and the effects of all Pokémon's ignorable Abilities are ignored for the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies.) For example, a Pokémon with Mycelium Might that uses Screech will move last in its priority bracket, but can affect opponents that have Big Pecks, Clear Body, or Soundproof.

Title: Supersweet Syrup (Ability)

Supersweet Syrup (Japanese: かんろなミツ Sweet Honey) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature Ability of Dipplin and Hydrapple. Once per battle, when a Pokémon with Supersweet Syrup enters the battle, it lowers the evasion stat of all adjacent opponents by one stage.

Title: Hospitality (Ability)

Hospitality (Japanese: おもてなし Hospitality) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature Ability of Poltchageist and Sinistcha. When a Pokémon with Hospitality enters a battle, it restores HP for an ally by 25%. This Ability has no effect in Tera Raid Battles. This Ability's Japanese name refers to おもてなし omotenashi, a concept of Japanese hospitality that was particularly established from the culture of the Japanese tea ceremony.

Title: Toxic Chain (Ability)

If you were looking for the move called Toxic Chain in Japanese, see Malignant Chain (move). Toxic Chain (Japanese: どくのくさり Toxic Chain) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature Ability of the Loyal Three. If a Pokémon with this Ability uses a non-status move, there is a 30% chance the target will become badly poisoned. Toxic Chain's chances also apply independently for each hit of a multistrike move. If this Ability triggers when using the move Knock Off on a target with a Lum or Pecha Berry, the Berry will be consumed to cure the poisoning instead of being removed by Knock Off's effect. A Toxic Chain can be seen wrapped up around Okidogi's neck, Munkidori's head, and Fezandipiti's waist, the only Pokémon that have it as an Ability. Two Toxic Chains can be seen during Pecharunt's signature move Malignant Chain, a move with almost the same Japanese name.

Title: Embody Aspect (Ability)

Embody Aspect (Japanese: おもかげやどし Bearing Visage) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature Ability of Terastallized Ogerpon, and has a different effect depending on Ogerpon's form. Upon Terastallizing, Ogerpon's Ability will change to Embody Aspect, and one of its stats is raised by one stage, depending on the mask: Embody Aspect and Teraform Zero are the only Abilities that are acquired through Terastallization. In addition, Embody Aspect is the only Ability that cannot be registered in Pokémon HOME.

Title: Tera Shift (Ability)

Tera Shift (Japanese: テラスチェンジ Tera Change) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is one of the signature Abilities of Terapagos. When Terapagos enters the battle, it turns into its Terastal Form until the end of the battle. Tera Shift cannot be copied by Trace, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Tera Shift cannot be replaced by Lingering Aroma, or suppressed by Neutralizing Gas. In Auto Battles, Terapagos will first change into its Terastal Form before attacking the wild Pokémon.

Title: Tera Shell (Ability)

Tera Shell (Japanese: テラスシェル Tera Shell) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is one of the signature Abilities of Terapagos. When Terapagos is hit by a damage-dealing move at full HP (that does not have no effect due to type matchups), it will always be not very effective. The whole move is not very effective, even in the case of multistrike moves. It also overrides the effect of Tar Shot. Tera Shell has no effect on moves that deal direct damage, Struggle, or self-inflicted confusion damage, though it does affect typeless Revelation Dance. However, in the case of the former, the message "It's not very effective..." is still displayed even though the damage was not actually halved. Tera Shell is the only method in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet that allows a Pokémon to take resisted damage from Stellar-type moves.

Title: Teraform Zero (Ability)

Teraform Zero (Japanese: ゼロフォーミング Zero-Forming) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is one of the signature Abilities of Terapagos. As soon as Terapagos assumes its Stellar Form, it will immediately neutralize weather and terrain effects. Moves or Abilities like Gastro Acid and Neutralizing Gas that suppress Abilities will suppress Teraform Zero. Teraform Zero can also be replaced by other Abilities through Entrainment, Worry Seed, or Doodle. Making contact with a target that has Mummy, Wandering Spirit, or Lingering Aroma as their Ability will change Teraform Zero to that Ability. It cannot be copied with Trace or Role Play, nor obtained with Skill Swap, Power of Alchemy, or Receiver. Due to how overworld weather works in Generation IX, Teraform Zero will fail to protect from its effects. Teraform Zero and Embody Aspect are the only Abilities that are acquired through Terastallization. Teraform Zero's French and Spanish names are the only Ability names to contain a digit, both containing "0".

Title: Poison Puppeteer (Ability)

Poison Puppeteer (Japanese: どくくぐつ Poison Puppeteer) is an Ability introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk (though it was not made available until the release of Mochi Mayhem). It is the signature Ability of Pecharunt. When a Pokémon is poisoned by any of Pecharunt's moves, it will also become confused. Poison induced by Toxic Spikes does not activate Poison Puppeteer. Poison Puppeteer does not activate if the user is not Pecharunt. Skill Swap fails if either Pokémon has Poison Puppeteer. Poison Puppeteer cannot be copied by Power of Alchemy. Poison Puppeteer is the last Generation IX Ability in index number order.

