Title: Master Ball

The Master Ball (Japanese: マスターボール Master Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation I. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon without fail. It was invented by the Silph Co. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it catches the wild Pokémon without fail (with the exception of the ghost Marowak in Pokémon Tower). Despite the common misconception that the Master Ball has a low chance to fail in certain generations, it functions by simply overriding the catch formula entirely, skipping any calculations based on chance. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, throwing a Master Ball will bypass the Poké Ball manual aiming mechanic, and will instead show a cutscene of the Master Ball catching the chosen Pokémon. If used on Legendary Pokémon in these games, they will attempt to smack the ball away during the cutscene, but will still be caught anyway. The Master Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the item (Generation III and earlier) or only the player's turn (from Generation IV onward). From Generation VI onward, bred Pokémon inherit their Poké Ball from their parents. However, any offspring that would inherit a Master Ball, Cherish Ball, or Strange Ball will instead be contained in a standard Poké Ball. Fling will fail if used while holding a Master Ball. The villainous team leaders in Team Rainbow Rocket keep their Pokémon in Master Balls. AI Sada and AI Turo keep their Pokémon in Master Balls. During The Indigo Disk, Kieran briefly keeps Terapagos in a Master Ball, which is broken by Terapagos after it assumes its Stellar Form. A Master Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Master Ball appears in the mini-game Furret's Frolic. It is the largest ball in that mini-game, appearing later than the rest and being worth 5 points. In Pokémon XD, Master Balls are used in the Battle Bingo game. The player starts with two and can gain an extra one from one of the ? spaces. A decorative rug themed after the Master Ball could be found in the Hero's Catalogue in Pokémon Dream World. Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR! The Master Ball card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. In Pokémon GO, the Master Ball was first made available on May 22, 2023. It can be used to catch any encountered Pokémon without fail. It cannot miss, as a cutscene of the Pokémon being caught is triggered when one is thrown, bypassing the usual throwing mechanic. The Master Ball is the only Poké Ball that can be selected from the player's Bag during the bonus challenge of a Raid Battle, Max Battle, or Team GO Rocket battle. It also cannot be discarded from the Bag. Using a Master Ball does not reward bonus XP for Curveball Throws or hitting the target circle. Instead, a 1,000 XP "Master Ball Throw" bonus is rewarded. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the Master Ball multiplies bonus points by ×4. Its effect of always guaranteeing capture is given to each Poké Ball. In Pokémon Frienda, after a set number of moves have been used and at least one opposing Pokémon has fainted, the player can insert ¥100 for a chance to catch all of the opposing Pokémon. A spinning wheel determines what Poké Balls are used on the Pokémon, with one of the options being a very small chance for a Master Ball. In Pokémon Pokopia, a Master Ball containing a Mewtwo appears on the rooftop of the abandoned skyscraper in Sparkling Skylands after it is completely renovated. When Ditto approaches it, Mewtwo awakens and releases itself from its Ball. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the Poké Ball trophy mentions the Master Ball, identifying it as the strongest variety of Poké Ball. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, the Master Ball appears as a throwing item. It functions much like the Poké Ball item, but the Master Ball summons rare and Legendary Pokémon, Zoroark, or a Goldeen. The Master Ball also appears as a trophy in both versions of the game. NA: These valuable, powerful balls can capture any wild Pokémon. In Smash Bros., hard-to-find Pokémon often pop out of them. You can easily identify a Master Ball by the distinct purple appearance and large M on the top. A Pokémon within a Master Ball may turn the tide of battle. PAL: A rare type of Poké Ball that never fails to catch a Pokémon. Throw one in this game, and the Mythical or Legendary Pokémon inside will come to your aid. Master Balls are easy to identify due to their purple colour and the large M on them. Use one to quickly turn the tide of any battle! In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the Master Ball functions the same way as it did in the previous games; summoning a Legendary or Mythical Pokémon, Zoroark, or Goldeen. In Beauty and the Beach and A Hot Water Battle, Misty had a beach ball that was decorated to look like a Master Ball. This Master Ball beach ball reappeared in the Pikachu short Pikachu's Ice Adventure. In The Song of Jigglypuff, a picture of a Master Ball appeared on a billboard on a building in Neon Town. In Whiscash and Ash, Sullivan attempted to use a Master Ball in a last-ditch attempt to catch Nero, an oversized wild Whiscash that had long eluded him. However, Nero swallowed the Master Ball and disappeared back into the water, not being caught. At the end of the episode, Nero was seen playing with the Master Ball on its tongue. A Master Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In Found You, Fuecoco!, the Master Ball was mentioned in one of Nidothing's videos. The Master Ball never made an actual appearance in Pokémon Origins, only appearing in Silph Co. president's secretary's demonstration in File 3: Giovanni. She mentioned that the Master Ball was still in development, and only existed as a prototype. She also told that it was why Team Rocket had taken over their office building; they intended to accelerate the development of the Master Ball and then steal it when it would be completed, making sure they would be the only ones possessing it. After Team Rocket was driven out of the building by Red, it was mentioned that the development of the Master Ball was being put on hold for a while. In Mewtwo Strikes Back!, Dr. Fuji attempted to use a Master Ball to catch Mew, but failed as Mew dodged the thrown Ball. In And Mewtwo... Three!, Blaine was revealed to be in possession of a Master Ball. Soon afterwards, Red used it to catch Mewtwo for Blaine. In Malamar Traps, Blaine was revealed to have re-caught Mewtwo with the Master Ball after reuniting with it at the Pokémon Village. In (Violent) Earthquake! Cyrus's Consuming Ambition, Cyrus gave Hareta a Master Ball as recognition for him having moved his emotions, telling him to bring it with him to Mount Coronet. In Bonds Connect Across Space-Time..., the Master Ball fell out of Hareta's pocket at the Spear Pillar, and Professor Rowan told him about its capability to catch any Pokémon without fail. In an attempt to stop the battle between Dialga and Palkia, Hareta tried to use the Master Ball to catch Palkia, but Palkia, having total control over space, was able to make itself disappear out of Master Ball's way and then smack it aside. Red used a Master Ball in The Legendary Pokémon Appears!! to catch Articuno. Satoshi obtained a Master Ball from the Silph Co.'s president in PZ07 as thanks for rescuing his company from the hands of Team Rocket. In Pokémon Power (issue 2, page 3), it is said that the Master Ball was the latest invention of Professor Oak. He publicly revealed the existence of the Master Ball in a press conference. Professor Oak licensed the Master Ball design to Silph Co., and this company's early field tests were said to be promising. The Master Ball was first introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in English during the Original Series in the Gym Challenge, and in Japanese during the Original Era in the Expansion Sheet 2. It has been reprinted as a Trainer card in the Japanese-exclusive Intro Pack Neo (in the Neo Era), the Japanese-exclusive Pokémon VS expansion (in the VS Era), the English e-Card Series (the Japanese e-Card Era), and the English EX Series (the Japanese ADV Era and PCG Era). As a Trainer card, this card allowed the player to look at the top 7 cards of their deck and add one Pokémon card from those cards to their hand, then shuffle their deck. Notably, as this card only lets the players look at 7 cards from their deck, this card has a chance to fail to get any Pokémon, which is unlike how the in-game item works. During the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era), Master Ball was reprinted as an ACE SPEC Item card in the Plasma Blast expansion in English and the Blastoise + Kyurem-EX Combo Deck in Japanese. This print has a new effect which more closely resembles the item's in-game mechanic, allowing the player to add any 1 Pokémon card from their deck to their hand without any drawback. As this print is an ACE SPEC card, a player may only have 1 copy of Master Ball in their deck. This print of Master Ball was later reprinted during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era) in the Japanese Starter Deck & Build Sets and the English Temporal Forces expansion with the same effect, but a new ACE SPEC layout. The old pre-Black & White effect of Master Ball would be inherited by Great Ball, starting with its Emerging Powers print. The Master Ball was also featured as a card in Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR! Pokémon Legends: Arceus is the only core series game in which the Master Ball does not appear at all. The Poké Ball amount bug from Pokémon Colosseum is often known as the Master Ball glitch, due to Master Balls commonly being used in this glitch. When the player uses a Master Ball in Generation II, stars appear and a sound effect is played before the Ball closes and catches the Pokémon. There are several instances of a Master Ball failing to capture a Pokémon: In the Mewtwo Strikes Back! manga, Mew dodged Dr. Fuji's Master Ball by quickly flying in the air. In the Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire episode Whiscash and Ash, Nero the Whiscash swallowed Sullivan's Master Ball. In the Pokémon Diamond and Pearl Adventure! chapter Bonds Connect Across Space-Time..., Dialga, by manipulating space, disappeared out of the way of Hareta's Master Ball and then smacked it aside. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, due to the different types of Poké Ball only affecting the player's scores and not the chances of catching a Pokémon, it is possible to hit a wild Pokémon with a Master Ball during the Catch 'em Mode and still fail to catch it (if the time runs out or the player loses a ball before hitting the wild Pokémon three times). In Pokémon Origins, the presentation about the Master Ball appears to include a periodic table of the elements with 13 elements highlighted, suggesting that the Master Ball is made of those elements. Three of the highlighted elements appear to be nickel, rhodium, and iridium. Five appear to be those known in the real world as copper, lutetium, rhenium, dubnium, and darmstadtium (the real-world names of which refer to real-world places). The other five highlighted elements include three in the p-block and two in the f-block, but their identities are unclear, because these blocks each have one fewer group, and the f-block has one fewer period, than their real-world counterparts. Of the highlighted p-block elements, one appears to be either boron or carbon, one appears to correspond to germanium or arsenic (both are used in electronics, but arsenic would normally be combined with gallium), and the third appears to be selenium or bromine. Of the highlighted f-block elements, one appears to correspond to dysprosium, holmium, californium, or einsteinium, and the other appears to correspond to thulium, ytterbium, mendelevium, or nobelium.

Title: Ultra Ball

This article is about the modern incarnation of the Ultra Ball. For the Ultra Ball from Legends: Arceus, see Ultra Ball (Hisui). For the Poké Ball with the Japanese name of "Ultra Ball", see Beast Ball. The Ultra Ball (Japanese: ハイパーボール Hyper Ball), also referred to as the Hyper Ball, is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation I. It is an improved variant of the Great Ball that can be used to catch wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Crystal, an Ultra Ball costs $1000 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. When used from the Bag in a wild Pokémon encounter, it will attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 2×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Ultra Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect it, wasting the ball (in Generation III and earlier) or only the player's turn (from Generation IV onward). If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge it, wasting the ball. Lusamine, Faba, Guzma, Plumeria, Ryuki, Molayne, Sina, Dexio, Grimsley, Anabel, Wally, Colress, and Cynthia keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls: Trainers who share the same model as any of the above (e.g. Eevee User and Principal) Rose, Leon (outside the Battle Tower), Mustard, Honey, Peony, and Peonia keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls: Gym Leader* (excluding Nessa, Allister, and Piers) Trainers considered "strong" (denoted by a black background on their overworld text bubble) keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls. Vinnie and Ivor keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls. An Ultra Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Ultra Balls appear in the mini-game Furret's Frolic. They are worth three points each. Ultra Balls can be used during wild Pokémon encounters to attempt to capture a wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 2×. The player is awarded Ultra Balls for leveling up to any level starting from 20. They may also be obtained by completing certain Special Research tasks. Spinning the Photo Disc of PokéStops or Gyms (Lv. 20+) Ultra Balls are also sometimes available in limited-time boxes sold in the Shop. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the Ultra Ball multiplies bonus points by ×3. In Pokémon Frienda, after a set number of moves have been used and at least one opposing Pokémon has fainted, the player can insert ¥100 for a chance to catch all of the opposing Pokémon. A spinning wheel determines what Poké Balls are used on the Pokémon, with one of the options being an Ultra Ball. An Ultra Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Ultra Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. In A Glaring Rivalry!, Gladion was revealed to keep his Lycanroc in an Ultra Ball. A pair of Ultra Balls appeared in Team Rocket's boss fantasy in Let Sleeping Pokémon Lie!. In Acting True to Form!, an Ultra Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. In Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!, Leon used an Ultra Ball in an attempt to catch Eternatus, only for it to break out. In Chasing to the Finish!, Quillon used an Ultra Ball to catch a Registeel and was revealed to have also done the same with a Regice and a Regirock. In Roar of the Black Rayquaza, Amethio brandished an Ultra Ball when declaring his intention to catch the Black Rayquaza. In The Plan to Capture Rayquaza, Chalce attempted to capture the Black Rayquaza with an Ultra Ball, but it was deflected by Roy's Wattrel. In File 3: Giovanni, Giovanni was shown to keep his strongest Pokémon, Rhyhorn and Rhydon, within Ultra Balls. In File 4: Charizard, Red used Ultra Balls to catch the Legendary Pokémon Articuno, Zapdos, Moltres, and Mewtwo. In The Scoop, an Ultra Ball was used by a Trainer to catch a Deoxys in outer space. Leon was seen holding an Ultra Ball near the end of Letter. Three Ultra Balls containing Bea's Pokémon appeared in Training. In The Gathering of Stars, Mustard was shown to keep his Mienshao in an Ultra Ball. In The Champion, Leon's Aegislash and Charizard were shown to be kept in Ultra Balls. In The Wish, Zinnia was shown to keep her Salamence in an Ultra Ball. In the same episode, May used an Ultra Ball to catch Rayquaza. In The Discovery, Elaine was revealed to have caught Mewtwo with an Ultra Ball. Two other Ultra Balls also appeared later in the episode, one belonging to Green and another one being held by an Ace Trainer. In Haunting My Dreams, Ash attempted to catch a giant Haunter known as Black Fog with an Ultra Ball, but the Ghost Pokémon used Self-Destruct just before the ball could hit it, choosing to kill itself rather than be caught by a human. In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Elite Four members keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls. In Holy Moltres, Team Rocket was shown to have caught the legendary birds in Ultra Balls. In Crunch!! Snowy Battle, Gordie and Melony were revealed to keep their Pokémon in Ultra Balls. In Boom!! Reunion in a New Land, Peony was shown to keep his Copperajah in an Ultra Ball. In Rrmbll!! Serious Tower Battle, Mustard was revealed to keep his Urshifu in an Ultra Ball. The Ultra Ball, debuting in Dark Explorers with artwork by 5ban Graphics, has the player discard two cards from their hand to search the deck for a Pokémon. Before being printed as its own card, an Ultra Ball can be seen in the artwork of Rocket's Sneak Attack from the Team Rocket expansion. The Ultra Ball includes a stylized H in its design. This is due to its Japanese name, Hyper Ball. Its English name is the same as the Beast Ball in Japanese. "Ultra" in Beast Ball's Japanese name refers to "Ultra Beasts". The name of the Beast Ball was likely changed when localized in English due to the conflict with Ultra Ball, with "Beast" being used to refer to the Ultra Beasts instead. The Ultra Ball appears to have gone through a short-lived design change early on in Generation III. Its in-game design in Ruby and Sapphire, Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, and the Japanese release of FireRed and LeafGreen features a single thick yellow stripe down the middle of the upper half of the Ball, while all other games in the generation use the standard large upper-case H shape for the yellow pattern instead.

Title: Great Ball

This article is about the modern incarnation of the Great Ball. For the Great Ball from Legends: Arceus, see Great Ball (Hisui). The Great Ball (Japanese: スーパーボール Super Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation I. It is an improved variant of the regular Poké Ball that can be used to catch wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Crystal, a Great Ball costs $500 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it will attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1.5×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Great Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect it, wasting the ball (in Generation III and earlier) or only the player's turn (from Generation IV onward). If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge it, wasting the ball. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Great Balls: Aether Foundation Employee (excluding masked ones) The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Great Balls: In Pokémon Stadium 2, Great Balls appear in the mini-game Furret's Frolic. They are worth two points each. In Pokémon Shuffle, whenever the player defeats an uncaught Pokémon that is not a Trainer's Mega Evolved Pokémon, they get a chance to catch that Pokémon with a regular Poké Ball provided automatically. If the Pokémon escapes that Poké Ball, the player is prompted to purchase a Great Ball. Great Balls cost 2500 Coins in the 3DS version of the game and 3500 Coins in Pokémon Shuffle Mobile. This Great Ball is immediately used against the Pokémon. If a Great Ball fails, the player can purchase another, unless they have already used four Great Balls on the current catch attempt. If the fourth Great Ball fails, or if the player chooses not to purchase a Great Ball at any point, the Pokémon runs away and the stage concludes. The Pokémon also has a chance to flee each time it escapes a Great Ball. Using a Great Ball doubles the Pokémon's current catchability, increasing the chance of a capture succeeding. This is not repeated when the player purchases further Great Balls. On rare occasions, Super Catch Power will activate after the catchability doubling but before the prompt for the Great Ball. Super Catch Power boosts the player's odds of catching the Pokémon to 50% or more. This can only be taken advantage of by using a Great Ball, since the player is past the point they are allowed to throw a Poké Ball. Catchability maxes out at 100%, which is displayed as "MAX". Therefore, the Great Ball will not fully double the catchability if the catchability is already at 51% or higher. Great Balls can be used during wild Pokémon encounters to attempt to capture a wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1.5×. The player is awarded Great Balls when they level up to any level from 12 to 19. Spinning the Photo Disc of PokéStops or Gyms (Lv. 12+) In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the Great Ball multiplies bonus points by ×2. In Pokémon Frienda, after a set number of moves have been used and at least one opposing Pokémon has fainted, the player can insert ¥100 for a chance to catch all of the opposing Pokémon. A spinning wheel determines what Poké Balls are used on the Pokémon, with one of the options being a Great Ball. A Great Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Great Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. A pair of Great Balls appeared in Team Rocket's boss fantasy in Let Sleeping Pokémon Lie!. In Acting True to Form!, a Great Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. In Mad About Blue!, Bluto was shown to keep his Seismitoad in a Great Ball. In File 4: Charizard, Red caught an Arbok using a Great Ball. In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Gym Leaders outside of Galar keep their Pokémon in Great Balls provided for them by the Pokémon Association. In A Glimpse of the Glow, a Team Rocket Grunt was shown carrying Great Balls on his belt. Platinum's Froslass, Cherrim, and Pachirisu are all held in Great Balls due to previously belonging to Gym Leaders. Froslass first appeared in To and Fro with Froslass, while Cherrim and Pachirisu first appeared in Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia III. Lance's Dragonite was placed in a Great Ball in One Tough Togepi by Bruno when it was separated from Lance and went on a rampage. Gold held onto it until it could be returned to him in All About Arceus II. Main article: Great Ball (EX FireRed & LeafGreen 92) The Great Ball was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English EX Series (the Japanese PCG Era). It was first released in the Japanese Flight of Legends expansion and the English EX FireRed & LeafGreen expansion, with artwork by Nakaoka. It originally allowed the player to search their deck for any Basic Pokémon (excluding Pokémon-ex), and put it onto their Bench. Then, they shuffle their deck. During the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) the card was reclassified as an Item card, and the card received errata to change the effect. Now, it lets the player search the top seven cards of the deck for any one Pokémon card, put it in their hand, and then shuffle the other cards back into their deck. Great Ball has been reprinted many times since. Team Magma's Great Ball and Team Aqua's Great Ball are Team Magma and Team Aqua versions of Great Balls. They are Item cards, and were printed in the English Double Crisis expansion and Japanese Magma Gang VS Aqua Gang: Double Crisis expansion. Team Magma's Great Ball lets the player search their deck for a for a Basic Team Magma Pokémon and a Basic Energy and put them in their hand. Team Aqua's Great Ball lets the player search their deck for a for a Basic Team Aqua Pokémon and a Basic Energy and put them in their hand. For both cards, the deck is shuffled afterward. In Generation I only, the Great Ball has a higher catch rate than the Ultra Ball in certain situations.

Title: Safari Ball

The Safari Ball (Japanese: サファリボール Safari Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation I. It can be used to catch wild Pokémon during a Safari Game. When used in a wild encounter, it will attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 2×. The player can only have these Poké Balls in their possession during a Safari Game. The Safari Ball's catch rate modifier is now 1.5×. Starting in Pokémon Sword and Shield's The Isle of Armor Expansion, the Safari Ball can now be obtained outside of a Safari Game and used in regular wild encounters. The Safari Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the player's turn. The Safari Ball's catch rate modifier is 1× in Pokémon Sword and Shield, but was changed back to 1.5× in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. The Safari Ball's catch rate modifier is once again 1×. When the player participates in a Safari Game, they receive 30 Safari Balls exclusively for use within the Safari Game. They are not placed in the player's Bag, and any unused Safari Balls are returned at the end of the Safari Game. In Pokémon Yellow only, if the player does not have the required $500 to enter the Safari Zone, they can instead pay all of their money and receive a number of Safari Balls proportional to the amount paid. If they have no money, they can enter for free and receive a single Safari Ball. Despite being unobtainable as an item in Generation VI, a Safari Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. Kiloude City's Friend Safari building contains a Safari Ball on its sign. However, the Friend Safari does not act like a typical Safari Zone and Safari Balls are not legitimately obtainable or used in the game. In Pokémon GO, the Safari Ball is called the GO Safari Ball, a special, event-exclusive Poké Ball with a higher catch rate than other Poké Balls. Its only visual difference from other Safari Balls is the word "GO" on the top of the ball. The GO Safari Ball is available in Pokémon GO during GO Wild Area events. When a Wild Area event is active, players can receive GO Safari Balls by spinning Photo Discs at PokéStops and Gyms. Players with an event ticket can also receive GO Safari Balls from hourly Timed Research. During the 2025 GO Wild Area event, Supply Balloons that provide GO Safari Balls will appear hourly for players with an event ticket. All unused GO Safari Balls expire and disappear from the player's Bag at the end of each day of the event. Pokémon caught in GO Safari Balls are currently unable to be transferred to Pokémon HOME via the GO Transporter. This restriction will be lifted in the future; Pokémon transferred via the GO Transporter will display the GO Safari Ball differently in some way. Pokémon caught in GO Safari Balls can be transferred to Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! via GO Park. Like other Pokémon transferred to GO Park, the GO Safari Ball is overwritten by the Poké Ball used to catch the Pokémon within GO Park itself. GO Safari Balls cannot be used during Scatterbug or Shadow Pokémon encounters (except for Shadow Raids, if the player has an event ticket). They also cannot be used during Legendary or Mythical encounters from research tasks. In EP035, Kaiser gave Ash and his friends 30 Safari Balls to be used within the Kanto Safari Zone. Ash attempted to catch various rare Pokémon with them, but he ultimately ended up using all of his Safari Balls on nothing but Tauros. The Safari Balls containing Ash's Tauros reappeared in Showdown at the Po-Ké Corral; however, for an unexplained reason, whenever Ash has subsequently used one of his Tauros in a battle, it has been sent out from a standard Poké Ball. A Safari Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, also marking the debut of the Ball's in-game design in the animated series. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, while Safari Balls themselves did not appear at the Poké Ball Factory, Meowth was briefly painted on with the Safari Ball's camouflage pattern, revealing that these Balls are made at the factory. This is also the first time that the games' design of Safari Balls has appeared in the animated series, outside of openings and endings. In File 4: Charizard, Red used a Safari Ball to catch a Chansey In PT14, multiple Trainers tried to catch the troublemaking Chansey with Safari Balls, but failed. Safari Balls first appeared in Long Live the Nidoking! and A Hollow Victreebel, where Red received some from the robotic Safari Zone guide called Pidgebot, eventually catching a huge herd of Safari Zone Pokémon with them. In A Skuffle with Skorupi, Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum entered the Great Marsh and received some Safari Balls to be used during the Safari Game, intending to catch a Grass-type Pokémon for Platinum to use against Crasher Wake. However, in the end, they failed to catch a single new Pokémon. In Weavile Wobbles But It Won't Fall Down, Silver received some Safari Balls while entering the Johto Safari Zone. He tried to use one on an Arbok, but Eusine stopped him, due to him having violated the Safari Zone's no-battling rule by attacking the Arbok with his Weavile. In Fuchsia City, Satoshi received some Safari Balls while entering the Safari Zone. The Safari Ball is the only Poké Ball type introduced in Generation I not to be present in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. In the Generation I games, the Safari Ball is functionally identical to the Ultra Ball, which due to a programming oversight it makes Pokémon with high catch rates, including many that can be found in the Safari Zone, significantly harder to catch at full health.

Title: Net Ball

The Net Ball (Japanese: ネットボール Net Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed against Water- or Bug-type Pokémon. It was developed in Mossdeep City. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If used against a Water- or Bug-type Pokémon, it has an increased catch rate modifier (no additional bonus is applied if the Pokémon is both of these types). If the wild Pokémon's type has been changed (e.g. due to Soak), the Net Ball checks the Pokémon's current type. If used against a Water- or Bug-type Pokémon, the Net Ball has a 3× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used against a Water- or Bug-type Pokémon, the Net Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). A Net Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Net Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. In addition, Pikachu was also briefly painted with Net Ball pattern. In Stick This in Your Craw, Crawdaunt! I, Mr. Briney used Net Balls to catch a trio of Wailmer he reeled in while fishing. A Net Ball appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle while Emerald was thinking which of his Poké Balls he should use to catch Jirachi. More of Emerald's Net Balls were seen in Sneaky Like Shedinja II, The Final Battle III, and The Final Battle V. The Net Ball was first printed in the English Lost Thunder set and the Japanese Fairy Rise set. It allows the player to search their deck for a Basic Pokémon or a Energy card and put it into their hand. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, a Sailor in the Mossdeep City Poké Mart mentions that Dive Balls and Net Balls are only made in Mossdeep. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Sailor instead mentions that they used to be Mossdeep's specialties.

Title: Dive Ball

The Dive Ball (Japanese: ダイブボール Dive Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed in water encounters, originally specifically underwater encounters. It was developed in Mossdeep City. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. It has an increased catch rate modifier in certain encounters. The Dive Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect the ball, wasting the item. If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge the ball, wasting it. If used underwater, the Dive Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. Since there are no underwater areas in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, it will always have a 1× modifier in those games. In Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Phenac Stadium is considered an underwater area, so the Dive Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier there. If used while surfing, fishing, or underwater, the Dive Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). If used while the Pokémon is currently on or in water, the Dive Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. The bonus catch rate only applies to Pokémon that swim in water, or typically walk on land and have entered water. Pokémon that always fly or hover do not benefit from this bonus, excluding instances where a Pokémon typically walks on land, but has an animation of "flying over water" instead of "swimming in water", such as Tropius. Additionally, the pool of water near the Firescourge Shrine is not properly considered "water" due to a bug, and therefore nothing benefits from an increased catch rate from Dive Balls there, even if the Pokémon would otherwise be eligible. Swimmers and Surfers keep their Pokémon in Dive Balls. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Dive Balls: A Dive Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Dive Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. In We Know Where You're Going, Eevee!, Lana caught her Eevee, Sandy, in a Dive Ball. In Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!, a Dive Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. In Mad About Blue!, Gorman was shown to keep his Nidorina and Phanpy in Dive Balls. Ludlow keeps his Pokémon in Dive Balls, as first seen in The Future I Choose with his Quagsire, and in Transform! Hero of the Seas, Palafin with his Sharpedo. A Dive Ball first appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle while Emerald was thinking which of his Poké Balls he should use to catch Jirachi. More of Emerald's Dive Balls were seen in Sneaky Like Shedinja II, The Final Battle III, and The Final Battle V. In Toasty!! Battle Against Toxapex, Nessa's Drednaw was shown to be housed in a Dive Ball. Dive Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era). It debuted in English in the Primal Clash expansion, with artwork by Toyste Beach. In Japan, it debuted in the Tidal Storm expansion. It allows the player to search their deck for a Water-type Pokémon and put it into their hand. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, a Sailor in the Mossdeep City Poké Mart mentions that Dive Balls and Net Balls are only made in Mossdeep. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Sailor instead mentions that they used to be Mossdeep's specialties. In Pokémon Colosseum and XD, Phenac Stadium is considered an underwater location, so the Dive Ball has an increased catch rate there. Because Dive Balls are not normally available in those games, and trading is only unlocked during the post-game, the player cannot have Dive Balls in their possession until the post-game. The only snaggable Shadow Pokémon that can appear in Phenac Stadium during the post-game are the Shadow Pokémon in the Card e Room, which is exclusive to the Japanese version of Colosseum and only accessible after scanning an appropriate e-Reader card; thus, these are the only Pokémon in either game for which the Dive Ball's increased catch rate can apply.

Title: Nest Ball

The Nest Ball (Japanese: ネストボール Nest Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed against lower-level Pokémon. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If used against a low level Pokémon, it has an increased catch rate modifier, calculated as follows: From Generation III to IV, 40−Level10×, minimum 1× In Generation V, ⌊(41−Level)×409610⌋4096×, minimum 1× From Generation VI onward, ⌊(41−Level)×409610⌋4096× if Pokémon's level is between 1 and 29, 1× otherwise In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, 41−Level10× if Pokémon's level is between 1 and 29, 1× otherwise If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (0.1×). The Nest Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect the ball, wasting the item (prior to Generation IV) or only the player's turn (since Generation IV). If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge the ball, wasting it. Team Skull Grunts keep their Pokémon in Nest Balls. Team Yell Grunts keep their Pokémon in Nest Balls. A Nest Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Nest Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. In Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!, a Nest Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. A Nest Ball appeared in Bidoof's Big Stand, where a Trainer used one to catch the titular Bidoof. A Nest Ball first appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle while Emerald was thinking which of his Poké Balls he should use to catch Jirachi. More of Emerald's Nest Balls were seen in Sneaky Like Shedinja II, The Final Battle III, and The Final Battle V. The Nest Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sun & Moon Series (the Japanese Sun & Moon Era). It was first released in the Japanese Collection Moon expansion and the English Sun & Moon expansion, with artwork by Toyste Beach. A Secret print of the card with artwork by the same illustrator was released in the same sets. It was reprinted in the Japanese GG End subset with artwork by Ryo Ueda. During the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era), it was reprinted again in the Japanese Scarlet ex expansion and the English Scarlet & Violet expansion, as both a Regular card and a hyper rare featuring artwork by the original illustrator, Toyste Beach. The card allows the player to search their deck for a Basic Pokémon and put it onto their Bench. Afterwards, the player shuffles their deck.

Title: Repeat Ball

The Repeat Ball (Japanese: リピートボール Repeat Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed if the Pokémon is already registered as caught in the player's Pokédex. It was developed by the Devon Corporation. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If used on a Pokémon that is already registered as owned in the player's Pokédex, it has an increased catch rate modifier. The Repeat Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect it, wasting the ball. If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge it, wasting the ball. If used on a Pokémon that is already registered as owned in the player's Pokédex, the Repeat Ball has a 3× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on a Pokémon that is already registered as owned in the player's Pokédex, the Repeat Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). Scientists and masked Aether Foundation Employees keep their Pokémon in Repeat Balls. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, Iwao keeps his Pokémon in Repeat Balls. In the movie Jirachi: Wish Maker, Brendan's Shiftry was shown to be contained in a Repeat Ball. A Repeat Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Repeat Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. A Repeat Ball first appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle while Emerald was thinking which of his Poké Balls he should use to catch Jirachi. More of Emerald's Repeat Balls were seen in Sneaky Like Shedinja II, The Final Battle III, and The Final Battle V. The Repeat Ball, released in the Primal Clash expansion, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon with the same name as one of their Pokémon already in play and put it into their hand.

Title: Timer Ball

The Timer Ball (Japanese: タイマーボール Timer Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed the longer it has been since the start of the battle. It was developed by the Devon Corporation. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. It has a catch rate modifier that increases with the number of turns that have passed in the encounter (so this counter is 0 on the first turn), calculated as follows: In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the total number of moves used since the beginning of the battle by both the wild Pokémon and the player's active Pokémon is used as the turn counter instead, and the individual bonuses only go up per 10 moves; if less than 11 moves have been used in the battle, the multiplier is 1×. If between 11 and 20 moves have been used in the battle, the multiplier is 2×. If between 21 and 30 moves have been used in the battle, the multiplier is 3×. If at least 30 moves have been used in the battle, the multiplier is 4×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Timer Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect it, wasting the ball (prior to Generation IV) or only the player's turn (since Generation IV). If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge it, wasting the ball. A Timer Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. A Timer Ball first appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle and Skirting Around Surskit I, where Emerald tried to use one to catch Jirachi. However, Guile Hideout, seeking to catch Jirachi for himself, used his sword to slice the Ball in two before it could hit its target. More of Emerald's Timer Balls were seen in Sneaky Like Shedinja II, The Final Battle III, and The Final Battle V. The Timer Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sun & Moon Series (the Japanese Sun & Moon Era). It was first released in the Japanese Collection Sun expansion and the English Sun & Moon expansion, with artwork by Toyste Beach. It allows the player to flip two Coins, search their deck for an Evolution Pokémon for each heads flipped, reveal them to the other player, and add them to their hand. Timer Balls can achieve one of the highest catch rates of any Poké Ball other than the Master Ball. From Generation III to IV, Timer Balls have a better catch rate than Ultra Balls after 11 turns, and better than Dusk Balls after 26 turns. From Generation V to VI, Timer Balls have a better catch rate than Ultra Balls after 4 turns, and better than Dusk Balls after 9 turns. From Generation VII onward, Timer Balls have a better catch rate than Ultra Balls after 4 turns, and better than Dusk Balls after 7 turns. Timer Ball is the only Poké Ball introduced in the first three generations that has not appeared in the animated series in any form outside of openings and endings.

Title: Luxury Ball

The Luxury Ball (Japanese: ゴージャスボール Gorgeous Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon. Pokémon kept in a Luxury Ball gain friendship more quickly, including Pokémon that are bred to inherit one as their Poké Ball. In Pokémon Black, Luxury Balls can be purchased in Black City for $50000. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, during the Funfest Mission Enjoy Shopping!, Luxury Balls can be purchased for $400. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Luxury Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect the ball, wasting the player's turn (as well as the item prior to Generation IV). If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge the ball, wasting it. Any increase to the friendship of a Pokémon in a Luxury Ball is boosted by 1. Gentlemen, Madames, and Trainers who share their models keep their Pokémon in Luxury Balls. Sordward and Shielbert keep their Pokémon in Luxury Balls. Additionally, the Toxel the player can obtain as a gift on Route 5 is contained in a Luxury Ball. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Luxury Balls: Ortega and O'Nare keep their Pokémon in Luxury Balls. In the movie, Jirachi: Wish Maker, Brendan's Aggron was shown to be contained in a Luxury Ball. A Luxury Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Luxury Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. While being chased by Meowth around the facility, Pikachu smacked a Luxury Ball at Meowth, causing him to briefly get sucked into it and giving Pikachu a chance to gain some distance from him. After escaping from the Ball, Meowth commented on how comfortable it had felt. In First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!, a Luxury Ball appeared in James's possession, being part of his Poké Ball collection. When Jessie's attempts to catch a Mimikyu with regular Poké Balls failed, she grabbed the Luxury Ball James had been polishing and used it instead, catching Mimikyu, much to James's dismay. In A Young Royal Flame Ignites!, Viren was revealed to keep his Pangoro in a Luxury Ball. In Found You, Fuecoco!, the Luxury Ball was mentioned in one of Nidothing's videos. A Luxury Ball first appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle while Emerald was thinking which of his Poké Balls he should use to catch Jirachi. In Skirting Around Surskit II, he used a Luxury Ball on Jirachi, but even though Jirachi was sucked into it, Guile Hideout used his Surskit's Psybeam to prevent the Poké Ball from closing and then destroy it. More of Emerald's Luxury Balls were seen in Sneaky Like Shedinja II, The Final Battle III, and The Final Battle V. In Innocent Scientist, Blake used Luxury Balls while trying to catch the Genesect controlled by Colress, eventually succeeding. The Luxury Ball, first found in the Stormfront expansion, is among the rarest of the Poké Ball varieties in the games, though its catch rate is the same as that of a normal Poké Ball. Likewise it is so with the TCG, allowing a non-LV.X Pokémon to be searched from the deck, but only if another Luxury Ball card is not in the discard pile. The Luxury Ball is the only Poké Ball with a permanent, persistent effect on the Pokémon caught with it. Prior to Generation III, no Poké Ball had a persistent effect on the Pokémon it was caught in, nor was the type of ball displayed in a Pokémon's summary. The introduction of the Luxury Ball, and its associated effect, was only possible due to the index number of the Poké Ball a Pokémon was obtained in being permanently stored within a Pokémon's data structure, starting in Generation III onward.

Title: Premier Ball

The Premier Ball (Japanese: プレミアボール Premier Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation III. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon. It was developed by the Devon Corporation. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Premier Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle (except if used as a Snag Ball on a Shadow Pokémon), the opposing Trainer will deflect it, wasting the player's turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). If used on the ghost Marowak, it will dodge it, wasting the ball. Fling fails if the user is holding a Premier Ball. Cyrano keeps his Pokémon in Premier Balls. In addition, Clavell is seen carrying six Premier Balls, but the Pokémon he uses in battle are kept in standard Poké Balls. The Premier Ball is a special item exclusively used during the bonus challenges of Raid Battles, Team GO Rocket battles, and Max Battles. Premier Balls are never put into the player's Bag; at the end of a challenge, any unused Premier Balls are discarded. The Premier Ball's catch rate is 1.05N, where N is the number of Premier Balls that have already been used in the bonus challenge. The catch rate modifier starts at 1× (where N = 0), like the standard Poké Ball, and geometrically increases after each throw. It's currently uncertain if the catch rate multiplier is capped at a fixed, maximum value. For all encounters that involve using Premier Balls, Shiny Pokémon have a 100% catch rate. In addition, all Shadow Pokémon left by Giovanni are guaranteed captures. For Raid Battles, the Premier Ball is used to catch the defeated Raid Boss. The number of Premier Balls awarded is based on: The highest Friendship level with another participant. The time taken to complete the raid (except Mega and Primal Raids). For Team GO Rocket battles, Premier Balls are used to rescue Shadow Pokémon. The number of Premier Balls awarded is based on: A Premier Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, a Premier Ball was seen at the Poké Ball Factory. In Rising from the Ruins!, Gladion was revealed to keep his Silvally (then a Type: Null) in a Premier Ball. In Acting True to Form!, a Premier Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. James's Premier Ball reappeared in Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!. In Radio Lulled the Mischievous Stars!, it was offered as a prize during Team Rocket's radio show, being eventually won by Ren. Like in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Clavell is seen wearing Premier Balls during Pokémon Horizons: The Series, as first seen in Welcome to Naranja Academy!. A Premier Ball first appeared in A Sketchy Smattering of Smeargle while Emerald was thinking which of his Poké Balls he should use to catch Jirachi. The Premier Ball, debuting in the Great Encounters expansion, allows the player to search their deck or discard pile for a Pokémon LV.X and put it into their hand. The Premier Ball is the only Poké Ball type not introduced in Generation I that is usable by the player in Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. When a Poké Ball is Dynamaxed, it resembles a giant Premier Ball.

Title: Dusk Ball

If you were looking for the type of Poké Ball used by the Iron-Masked Marauder, which has the same name in Japanese, see Dark Ball. The Dusk Ball (Japanese: ダークボール Dark Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation IV. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed if used at night or in a cave. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If used at evening or night or in a cave, it has an increased catch rate modifier. The catch rate is not boosted inside of buildings, regardless of time. The Dusk Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will deflect the ball, wasting the player's turn. If used in a cave (except Mirage Caves) or at night, the Dusk Ball has a 3.5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. In Generation V only, in certain indoor areas (specifically, Strange House and Volcarona's room in Relic Castle), Dusk Balls only have a 1× modifier even at night. If used at night or in a cave, the Dusk Ball has a 3× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). If used during the Darkest Day or at Newmoon Island, the Dusk Ball has a 3× modifier, even during the day. If used in Area Zero, the 3× modifier only applies in the various caves, and lower cavern section, regardless of the time of day in the rest of Paldea. Punk Guys and Punk Girls keep their Pokémon in Dusk Balls. Marnie, Allister, and Piers keep their Pokémon in Dusk Balls. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Dusk Balls: A Dusk Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, multiple Dusk Balls were seen at the Poké Ball Factory. In Acting True to Form!, a Dusk Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. It reappeared in Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!. In the Poké Problem extra scene of SM127, after finding his father's lost Zoroark, Gladion was shown to have caught it in a Dusk Ball. Zoroark's Dusk Ball made its dub debut in Final Rivals!. In The Arceus Chronicles (Part 1), Saturn used a Dusk Ball to catch a Heatran. In The Arceus Chronicles (Part 2), Heatran went on a rampage and ended up melting its own Dusk Ball. In Battling Turned Up to Eleven!, Marnie was revealed to keep her Grimmsnarl in a Dusk Ball. In Crash! Team Dragon Rampage!, Ult was shown to possess a Dusk Ball. In The Dusk Ball That Wouldn't Open, it was revealed to contain his Dragonite, which he received from his father. In Pokédex Complete!, Monta used a Dusk Ball to catch Kyurem. In Glittering!! The Tapestry in the Vault, Allister was shown to keep his Pokémon in Dusk Balls. Main article: Dusk Ball (Mysterious Treasures 110) The Dusk Ball was first introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Diamond & Pearl Series (the Japanese DP Era). It debuted as a Trainer card in the Japanese Secret of the Lakes expansion and the English Mysterious Treasures expansion, with artwork by Ryo Ueda. It is reprinted in the Japanese Paradise Dragona subset as an Item card with new artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The card allows the player to search the bottom 7 cards of their deck for a Pokémon and put it into their hand. Afterwards, the player shuffles their deck. The Dusk Ball and the Dark Ball have the same name in Japanese, despite having dissimilar properties.

Title: Heal Ball

The Heal Ball (Japanese: ヒールボール Heal Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation IV. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon. A Pokémon caught in a Heal Ball is fully healed. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1×. If caught, the Pokémon's HP, PP, and status are fully restored. From Generation IV to VII, since Pokémon sent to the Pokémon Storage System are fully healed, this healing is only applicable if the caught Pokémon is placed in the party (in games in which Pokémon sent to the Pokémon Storage System are not healed, it is applicable regardless). If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). During Episode RR in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, Lillie keeps her Clefairy in a Heal Ball. Pokémon Center Ladies keep their Pokémon in Heal Balls. The following Trainer classes keep their Pokémon in Heal Balls: A Heal Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. Starting from A Showcase Debut!, Serena carries a pink backpack with the Heal Ball pattern. In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, Heal Balls were seen being manufactured at the Poké Ball Factory. In Rescuing the Unwilling!, Gladion was revealed to keep his Umbreon in a Heal Ball. In Acting True to Form!, a Heal Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. It reappeared in Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!.

Title: Quick Ball

The Quick Ball (Japanese: クイックボール Quick Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation IV. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed if used at the start of the encounter. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If used on the first turn of the encounter, it has an increased catch rate modifier. The Quick Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will deflect the ball, wasting the player's turn. If used on the first turn of the encounter, the Quick Ball has a 4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on the first turn of the encounter, the Quick Ball has a 5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the bonus is instead applied if neither the wild Pokémon nor the player's active Pokémon have used any moves since the beginning of the battle. Furthermore, the bonus is now only 3×. Mela and Crispin keep their Pokémon in Quick Balls. Canari, Mani, and Griselle keep their Pokémon in Quick Balls. In Pokémon Frienda, Quick Balls can be thrown at up to five patches of grass during the "Get it now!" segment of the game. If the player selected the "Get it in battle!" option at the beginning of the game and caught any Pokémon after the battle, the number of grass patches decreases; if one Pokémon was caught after a battle, then four patches of grass are shown, and so on. Each throw costs ¥100 and the patch of grass the Quick Ball is thrown at is determined at random. A Quick Ball appeared in Which One ~ Is It?, a Japanese ending theme from Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. In Acting True to Form!, a Quick Ball appeared as a part of James's Poké Ball collection. It reappeared in Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!. In Mad About Blue!, Bluto was shown to keep his Croagunk in a Quick Ball. In Abyssal Ruins, Blake gave Whitley a Quick Ball and had her use it to catch a Karrablast, which was shortly afterwards traded for Blake's newly caught Shelmet, causing both of them to evolve. In Scizor Defends, a Quick Ball was seen amongst the Poké Balls that Y had used while trying to catch an Absol. Arven caught a Skwovet in a Quick Ball to save it from Titan Dondozo. Main article: Quick Ball (Mysterious Treasures 114) The Quick Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Mysterious Treasures expansion (the Japanese Secret of the Lakes expansion). It allows the player to uncover cards from their deck until they find a Pokémon. Its effect is similar to the Fast Ball. The Sword & Shield expansion (the Japanese Shield expansion) issued an erratum that changed the effect of Quick Ball. Quick Ball is now a more specialized version of Ultra Ball, requiring the player to discard a card from their hand to search for a Basic Pokémon from their deck and put it into their hand. Due to the erratum, all older printings of Quick Ball are treated as having the text of the Sword and Shield version. As of Generation V, Pokémon with a catch rate of 153 or higher are guaranteed to be caught in a Quick Ball if it is used on the first turn of battle, provided it is not an Ultra Beast or other special type of encounter (such as the "difficulty" penalty being applied from a higher-leveled Pokémon before obtaining the eighth Badge in Generation VIII). In Generation IV, Pokémon with a catch rate of 192 or higher are guaranteed to be caught, though any with catch rates ranging from 151 to 191 have a 99.994% chance to succeed. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, due to the nature of the game's overworld encounters, it is possible to use the Quick Ball's boosted catch rate modifier on the same Pokémon multiple times by running from it and then reinitiating the encounter. The Timer Ball has the opposite effect as the Quick Ball.

Title: Cherish Ball

The Cherish Ball (Japanese: プレシャスボール Precious Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation IV. Event Pokémon are often contained in a Cherish Ball. From Generation IV onward, event Pokémon are usually distributed inside a Cherish Ball, unless they are distributed as Eggs. This is the only way to obtain a Pokémon in a Cherish Ball. The Cherish Ball cannot be legitimately obtained as an item, so it cannot normally be used. If it were to be obtained, when used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it would attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1×. From Generation VI onward, bred Pokémon inherit their Poké Ball from their parents. However, any offspring that would inherit a Cherish Ball, Master Ball, or Strange Ball will instead be contained in a standard Poké Ball. Ace Trainer Deanna keeps her Tropius in a Cherish Ball. This is a reference to Shokotan, who Deanna shares her Japanese name with. Shokotan's Tropius was the first event Pokémon distributed in a Cherish Ball. In Victini - A New Friend!, Monta received a Victini contained in a Cherish Ball as a prize from an event. The Cherish Ball, first found in the Japanese Espeon & Deoxys-GX TAG TEAM GX Starter Set, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon-GX, reveal it, and add it to their hand. The player then shuffles their deck. A Secret Full Art card later appeared in the Japanese Miracle Twin expansion; both prints appeared in the English Unified Minds expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. An alternate artwork print, illustrated by Ryo Ueda, appeared in the Japanese Alter Genesis expansion and as one of the Yellow A Alternate cards in English. In Pokémon Platinum, if the player hacks Cherish Balls into the game and uses one to catch the in-game Regigigas, the game considers it having been obtained from an event and thus unlocks the Rock Peak, Iceberg, and Iron Ruins. Despite the fact that a hatched Pokémon can never be contained in a Cherish Ball, six Eggs containing Pokémon that hatch with Cherish Balls were distributed in Japan and South Korea in 2017. The Cherish Ball and Park Ball are the only Poké Balls introduced in the core series games prior to Pokémon Legends: Arceus that cannot be obtained in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Pecharunt is the only Mythical Pokémon to have never been made available in a Cherish Ball. In the Mochi Mayhem event where it is first catchable, the player can choose whichever Ball they want to keep it in, as Pecharunt's battle is scripted so that every Poké Ball is guaranteed to catch it.

Title: Potion

The Potion (Japanese: キズぐすり Wound Medicine) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to restore a Pokémon's HP. It has four improved counterparts: Super Potion, Hyper Potion, Max Potion, and Full Restore. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 20 HP. In Pokémon Yellow, it also increases friendship when used on the player's Pikachu. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it heals the Pokémon by 60 HP. The Potion appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 2 points to use. Potions appear during Chapter 4 of Detective Pikachu, where they are used by an aspiring Pokémon Ranger named Milo Green. He is first seen using one to heal an injured Ducklett, and again later to restore a Feebas. Milo mentions that he receives his Potions from Dr. Waals, who makes them from the ingredients he collects at Lake Cappucci. In Pokémon Conquest, the Potion can be used to heal a Pokémon by 20 HP. A Potion can be purchased from any Shop for 300-210 gold, and sold for 150-195 gold. Potions can be used outside of battle to heal a Pokémon by 20 HP. They cannot be used during battle. Potions are obtainable starting at level 5. The player is awarded Potions when they level up to any level from 5 to 9. The Potion card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!, and the Potion Energy card is available only in the latter game. The Potion card is also available in Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket. In Pokémon Masters EX, Potions can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In addition, a variant of Potion called Mini Potion All can be used by certain sync pairs. Both of these item moves have 2 MP and the "Heals" effect tag. A Potion restores more HP than Mini Potion All, but Mini Potion All heals all allies, while Potion only heals one ally. A full list of all sync pairs who can learn Potion or Mini Potion All can be found here. In Pokémon UNITE, the Potion is a battle item unlocked at Trainer Level 4. It restores Pokémon's HP by 160 + 20% of its max HP. It has 30s cooldown. In Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket, Potion appears as an Item card that heals damage from a player's Pokémon. Regular Potions have been used on occasion in Pokémon the Series. Usually, Brock, Cilan, and Clemont carry them in their respective backpacks, and they use them to heal injured Pokémon. Potions seem to sting slightly whenever used, suggesting that they not only heal but sterilize the wound. Tracey has also been seen with some regular Potions that need to be taken orally. Starting from Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, regular Potions became the most commonly used Potion variant used in the animated series. In A Conspiracy to Conquer!, Clemont used a Potion on Meowth, although this happened off-screen, and the Potion bottle was only briefly seen when Clemont put it back into his backpack. In The Sun, the Scare, the Secret Lair!, multiple Potions were seen in Professor Kukui's medical kit. In Rocking Clawmark Hill!, Professor Kukui used a Potion to heal the Rockruff he was taking care of. In Lulled to La-La Land!, Lillie mentioned Potions as some of the items she had brought with her to the camp she and her classmates were having. In the dub, they were mistakenly referred to as "lotions". In a flashback in Don't Ignore the Small Stufful!, Wicke used a Potion on an injured Whimsicott. In Healing the Healer!, Goh used a Potion to treat a wound on Suicune's leg. In JN136, Quillon was seen using a Potion on an injured Beartic. This scene was not included in the episode's English dubbed version. In The Road Most Traveled!, Ash used a Potion to treat Latias's injured wing. In Must Be Our Heroes and the Witch!, Brock used a Potion on an injured Hatenna. In The Same Moon, Now and Forever!, Brock used a Potion to heal an injured Spearow. In Ash and Latios, Ash used one of Brock's Potions to treat an injured Latios's wounds. In The Pendant That Starts It All (Part One), a student of Indigo Academy used a Potion to heal his Machoke after losing in a battle In a flashback in Farewell, Sprigatito?, Marnya used a Potion to help treat an injured Sprigatito. In Kleavor the Solitary Warrior, Liko and Dot used Potions to heal Floragato and Quaxwell's injuries after a battle against Lucius's Kleavor. In Better, Farther, Stronger!, Liko and Ult both used a Potion to heal their Charcadet and Sableye, respectively, after battling the Explorers. In the Pokémon Masters Animated Trailer, Brock used a Potion to heal Rosa's Snivy after it was injured by an Energy Ball fired by a Beauty's Lotad. In Blossom's Dream, Blossom bought a number of Potions from a Poké Mart. She later used one of them on a wild Nidoran♂. In Chipping Away at Regirock, Crystal's Phanpy picked up a Potion for Emerald during his Battle Pyramid challenge. In A Conk on Cranidos's Cranium, Pearl used a Potion to heal his Chimchar, Chimler. In Listening to Pokémon, Black used some Potions to heal his Pokémon after having a battle with N. In The Announcement and the Prize, Sun used a Potion to heal his Litten, Dollar, after his battle against the Masked Royal during the Iki Town festival. In PMDP02, Red threw a Potion at Clefairy in order to let it recover some health, but Weavile prevented him from doing so by using Embargo. The Potion was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Original Series (the Japanese Original Era) in the Base Set expansion with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi. It was later released as an Item card in the Black & White expansion with new artwork by Ayaka Yoshida, first released in the Japanese Beginning Set. This card has since been released numerous times throughout the course of the TCG. In the Base Set, Expedition Base Set, and EX Unseen Forces prints, this Trainer card allowed the player to remove two damage counters from one of their Pokémon. From the Black & White print onwards, the card allows the player to heal 30 damage from one of their Pokémon. Potions have also been featured in the artwork of the following cards: The Potion has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. In Generation VII, of the Potions that heal a specific amount of HP (Potion, Super Potion, and Hyper Potion), Potion is the most cost-effective at the normal price, as it is 1 HP per $10, while Hyper Potion is the least cost-effective with 1 HP per $12.5, and Super Potion is in the middle with 1 HP per $11.67. Prior to Generation VII, of the Potions that heal a specific amount of HP (Potion, Super Potion, and Hyper Potion), Potion is the least cost-effective at the normal price, only giving 1 HP per $15, while Hyper Potion is the most cost-effective with 1 HP per $6, and Super Potion is in the middle with 1 HP per $14.

Title: Antidote

The Antidote (Japanese: どくけし Antidote) is a type of status condition healing medicine introduced in Generation I. It cures a Pokémon of poison. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon from poisoning. The Antidote appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 4 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Antidote can be used to cure a Pokémon from poisoning. An Antidote can be purchased from any Shop for 100-70 gold, and sold for 50-65 gold. Antidote was first mentioned in A Venipede Stampede!, where Cilan used some to cure Ash after he had been poisoned by a wild Venipede's Poison Point. Antidote was mentioned again in An Undersea Place to Call Home!. Lindsey used one off-screen to cure Ash's Pikachu after he had been badly poisoned by a wild Skrelp's Toxic. Antidotes first appeared in The Sun, the Scare, the Secret Lair!. Professor Kukui handed one to Ash from his medical kit, for him to cure his Rowlet from the poison inflicted by James's Mareanie's Sludge Bomb. In The One That Didn't Get Away!, Lana used some Antidote-laced food wrapped around her fishing lure to heal a Kyogre from its poisoning. In The Pokémon Center Lady, Mollie used Antidotes throughout the episode to cure wild Pokémon at Woody Park after they had been poisoned by a Laquium-affected Vileplume. In The Secret of Kangaskhan, Red used an Antidote to heal a baby Kangaskhan from her poisoning. In Toasty!! Battle Against Toxapex, Henry used an Antidote to heal his Thwackey from the poison inflicted on it by Nessa's Toxapex's Baneful Bunker. In PASV22, Scarlet attempted to use an Antidote to heal her poisoned Tarountula, but due to her being disoriented by Atticus's poison techniques, she ended up using a Paralyze Heal instead, thus resulting in no change on her Pokémon's condition. In GDZ68, Shu gave his Pikachu an Antidote to cure the poisoning caused by a Trainer's Kingdra's Toxic. The Antidote is featured in the artwork for the Contents of Trainer's bag merchandise line that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center. In early appearances, the Antidote was depicted as a vaccine inside of a syringe-type device; this was later changed to being a "spray-type medicine" in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen.

Title: Burn Heal

The Burn Heal (Japanese: やけどなおし Burn Heal) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It cures a Pokémon from a burn. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon from a burn. The Burn Heal appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 4 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Burn Heal can be used to cure a Pokémon from a burn. A Burn Heal can be purchased from any Shop for 300-210 gold, and sold for 150-195 gold. A Burn Heal appeared in The Pillar of Fire, when Friede gave one to Dot to heal her Quaxwell during their battle against Lucius's Gouging Fire, after the Practicing Pokémon had been burned by Gouging Fire's Burning Bulwark. In the Pokémon fandom, there is a common misconception that the Moon Ball would have an increased catch rate when used on a wild Pokémon that evolves using the Burn Heal item in the Generation II games. For more details about how the Moon Ball works in this generation, see the Moon Ball oversight.

Title: Ice Heal

The Ice Heal (Japanese: こおりなおし Ice Heal) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to thaw a frozen Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon from freezing. The Ice Heal appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 4 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Ice Heal can be used to cure a Pokémon from freezing. An Ice Heal can be purchased from any Shop for 300-210 gold, and sold for 150-195 gold. In The Final Dimensional Duel VI, Charon mentioned using an Ice Heal on his Heatran after it had been hit by Diamond's Regigigas's Icy Wind. Red used an Ice Heal on Clefairy in To the Pokémon League!! after he had been frozen by Lorelei's Dewgong.

Title: Awakening

If you were looking for the Awakening Emera in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, see Emera. The Awakening (Japanese: ねむけざまし Drowsiness Cure) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to wake a Pokémon from sleep. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon from sleep, or, in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, drowsy. The Awakening appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 4 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Awakening can be used to cure a Pokémon from sleep. An Awakening can be purchased from any Shop for 100-70 gold, and sold for 50-65 gold. In the Japanese version of A Scare in the Air, a woman won an Awakening as a lottery prize. In the English dub, the prize was changed to "beautiful refrigerator magnets." In Charizard Transforms, Y used an Awakening to wake up her Greninja, Croaky, after Xerosic's Malamar had put him to sleep with Hypnosis. In The Mystery Boy, Jun!!, Jun used an Awakening to wake up Hareta's Piplup after it had fallen asleep due to Mars's Purugly's Hypnosis. In Pokémon Colosseum and XD: Gale of Darkness, the Call function serves the same role as an Awakening, as it can be used to wake up sleeping Pokémon.

Title: Paralyze Heal

The Paralyze Heal (Japanese: まひなおし Paralysis Heal), called Parlyz Heal from Generations I to V, is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to cure a Pokémon from paralysis. In the English manual of Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, this item is called Paralyz Heal. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon from paralysis. The Paralyze Heal appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 4 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Parlyz Heal can be used to cure a Pokémon from paralysis. A Parlyz Heal can be purchased from any Shop for 200-140 gold, and sold for 100-130 gold. Paralyze Heal was mentioned in Pokémon Scent-sation!. Erika offered to give some to Ash's Bulbasaur after it had been hit by her Tangela's Stun Spore, but Ash declined the offer. In Weezing Winks Out, Koga healed Blue, who had been paralyzed when Agatha's Gengar Licked him, with a Paralyze Heal sent to him inside one of his shuriken Poké Balls. In PASV22, Scarlet attempted to use an Antidote to heal her poisoned Tarountula, but due to her being disoriented by Atticus's poison techniques, she ended up using a Paralyze Heal instead, thus resulting in no change on her Pokémon's condition. In Pokémon Adventures, Blue is healed with a Paralyze Heal, the first time a status condition healing item besides local specialties is used on a human.

Title: Full Restore

The Full Restore (Japanese: かいふくのくすり Recovery Medicine) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It fully restores a Pokémon's HP and cures it of all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. It is an improved counterpart of the Potion, Super Potion, Hyper Potion, Max Potion, and Full Heal. In Pokémon Crystal, Full Restore cost $600 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it fully restores a Pokémon's HP and cures the Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze). In Pokémon Yellow, it also increases friendship when used on the player's Pikachu. When used in a battle, Full Restore now also cures confusion. In the Generation II games, an oversight causes the item to not cure a Pokémon of Nightmare (even after waking up from sleep) when used by an opponent in battle. The Full Restore appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 13 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Full Restore can be used to fully heal a Pokémon's HP and cure them from poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze, and confusion. A Full Restore can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 3000 gold, and sold for 1500-1950 gold. In A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, Ash and his classmates received a medical kit containing several healing items, including three Full Restores, to be used during their Ultra Guardian missions. During their first mission, Lillie used one of these Full Restores to heal a Snorlax that had been drained by a Buzzwole. In Full Moon and Many Arms!, Lillie used another Full Restore from the medical kit to help heal Lunala. In Mega Evolution - Ult, after being defeated by Roy, Master Mayonnaise gave Ult a Full Restore to heal his Sableye. The Full Restore is featured in the artwork for the Contents of Trainer's bag merchandise line that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Max Potion

The Max Potion (Japanese: まんたんのくすり Tank-Filling Medicine) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to restore a Pokémon's HP. It is an improved counterpart of the Potion, Super Potion, and Hyper Potion; it has an improved counterpart, the Full Restore. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon to its full HP. In Pokémon Yellow, it also increases friendship when used on the player's Pikachu. In the Generation I and II core series games, Max Potion is limited to healing only up to 999 HP instead of fully restoring HP, although the highest possible HP a Pokémon can legitimately have is 703 with a level 100 Chansey in Generation I or 713 with a level 100 Blissey in Generation II. Likewise, in the early releases of Pokémon Platinum, the Max Potion is mistakenly programmed to only heal up to 1000 HP even though it is not possible to go beyond a level 100 Blissey with 714 maximum HP without cheating. This was changed in later revisions to heal HP up to the maximum. The Max Potion appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 10 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Max Potion can be used to heal a Pokémon to its full HP. A Max Potion can be purchased from any Level 3 Shop for 2500-1750 gold, and sold for 1250-1575 gold. Max Potions can be used outside of battle to fully restore a Pokémon's HP. They cannot be used during battle. Max Potions can be purchased at the Shop in a bundle of ten for 200. Starting at level 25, Max Potions can be obtained via gameplay. The player obtains Max Potions when they level up to any level from 25 onward. Additionally, the player can repeatably obtain Max Potions by Max Potions debuted in A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, where Ash and his classmates received a medical kit containing three of them, among other healing items, meant to be used during their Ultra Guardian missions. Max Potion was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) in the Emerging Powers expansion with artwork by 5ban Graphics. This card allows the player to heal all damage from one of their Pokémon. The player then discards all Energy attached to that Pokémon. A Max Potion is also seen in the illustration of the Yellow A Alternate art print of the Trainers' Mail card from the Roaring Skies expansion.

Title: Hyper Potion

The Hyper Potion (Japanese: すごいキズぐすり Amazing Wound Medicine) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to restore a Pokémon's HP. It is an improved counterpart of the Potion and Super Potion; it has two improved counterparts: Max Potion and Full Restore. In Pokémon Crystal, Hyper Potion costs $1000 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Hyper Potion can be bought in dozens at $10800 each, which equates to $900 per Hyper Potion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 200 HP. In Pokémon Yellow, it also increases friendship when used on the player's Pikachu. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, once per day a lady in Shopping Mall Nine will ask the player to buy her a Hyper Potion and provides the money to do so. If the player talks to her again in the same day with a Hyper Potion in their Bag, she will reward the player with an Energy Root. If the player instead talks to her after that day, she will reward the player with an EnergyPowder. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 120 HP. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, as well as Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it heals the Pokémon by 120 HP. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus it heals the Pokémon by 150 HP. The Hyper Potion appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 8 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Hyper Potion can be used to heal a Pokémon by 200 HP. A Hyper Potion can be purchased from any Level 2 or 3 Shop for 1200-840 gold, and sold for 600-780 gold. Hyper Potions can be used outside of battle to heal a Pokémon by 200 HP. They cannot be used during battle. Starting at level 15, Hyper Potions be obtained (repeatedly) by the following methods. Additionally, the player is awarded Hyper Potions when they level up to any level from 15 to 24. A Hyper Potion briefly appeared in The Discovery in Green's Bag. In Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia I, Byron used a Hyper Potion to heal Gardenia's Cherubi during the Sinnoh Gym Leaders' battle against the Team Galactic Commanders at the Spear Pillar. In The Final Dimensional Duel VI, Charon mentioned using a Hyper Potion on his Heatran after it had been injured while battling against Diamond's Regigigas. Hyper Potion was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English e-Card Series (the Japanese e-Card Era) in the Skyridge expansion with artwork by Katsura Tabata. This card causes the player to discard one or two basic Energy cards attached to one of their Pokémon. If the player discarded one Energy card, they remove up to three damage counters from that Pokémon. If the player discarded two Energy cards, they remove up to five damage counters from that Pokémon. A set of three travel bottles including one modelled after the Hyper Potion was released on November 28, 2024 as part of a travel goods collection of Pokémon merchandise exclusive to the Pokémon Center. In Generation VII, of the Potions that heal a specific amount of HP (Potion, Super Potion, and Hyper Potion), Hyper Potion is the least cost-effective at the normal price, only giving 1 HP per $12.5, while Potion is the most cost-effective with 1 HP per $10, and Super Potion is in the middle with 1 HP per $11.67. Prior to Generation VII, of the Potions that heal a specific amount of HP (Potion, Super Potion, and Hyper Potion), Hyper Potion is the most cost-effective at the normal price, as it is 1 HP per $6, while Potion is the least cost-effective with 1 HP per $15, and Super Potion is in the middle with 1 HP per $14. Hyper Potion is the only variation of Potion that has not been seen in the animated series.

Title: Super Potion

The Super Potion (Japanese: いいキズぐすり Good Wound Medicine) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to restore a Pokémon's HP. It is an improved counterpart of the Potion; it has three improved counterparts: Hyper Potion, Max Potion, and Full Restore. In Pokémon Crystal, Super Potion costs $500 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 50 HP. In Pokémon Yellow, it also increases friendship when used on the player's Pikachu. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 60 HP. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, as well as Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it heals the Pokémon by 60 HP. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus it heals the Pokémon by 100 HP. One Super Potion is required to craft a Hyper Potion. The Super Potion appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 4 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Super Potion can be used to heal a Pokémon by 50 HP. A Super Potion can be purchased from any Shop for 700-490 gold, and sold for 350-455 gold. Super Potions can be used outside of battle to heal a Pokémon by 50 HP. They cannot be used during battle. Super Potions are obtainable starting level 10. The player is awarded Super Potions when they level up to any level from 10 to 14. The Super Potion card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. In Pokémon Masters EX, Super Potions can only be used by certain sync pairs who have it as an item move. Super Potions have been used on occasion in Pokémon the Series. Usually, Brock, Cilan, and Clemont carry them in their respective backpacks, and they use them to heal injured Pokémon. Potions seem to sting slightly whenever used, suggesting that they not only heal but sterilize the wound. Tracey has also been seen with some Potions that need to be taken orally. Super Potion is the most commonly used Potion in the animated series, with them being regularly used to heal Pokémon throughout the series until Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, where regular Potions replaced them. In Here Comes the Squirtle Squad!, Pikachu got a serious injury from a Goldeen while being chased by the Squirtle Squad. He was captured, but suffering, so the Squirtle Squad allowed Ash to go free and get a Super Potion from the local town to heal Pikachu. This was the first episode of the animated series wherein a Potion was mentioned. In Tentacool & Tentacruel, Brock was mentioned to have used a Super Potion to heal a hurt Horsea off-screen. In The Kangaskhan Kid, Brock used a Super Potion to treat the wounds on an injured baby Kangaskhan. In A Chansey Operation, Brock was seen using a Super Potion while treating an injured Sandslash. In Hour of the Houndour, Ash used one of Brock's Super Potions to help treat an injury on a wild Houndour. Brock used a Super Potion to heal a minor injury inflicted on Ash's Pikachu in You Never Can Taillow, which he had received while battling a wild Taillow. Later in the same episode, Brock also used a Super Potion to heal the very same Taillow after it had been caught by Ash. May used a Super Potion to treat the wound on a wild Swablu that she befriended in True Blue Swablu. Brock used a Super Potion to heal Dawn's Piplup in When Pokémon Worlds Collide!. Brock used a Super Potion to heal a minor injury on a wild Nuzleaf in Leave It To Brocko!. Brock used a Super Potion to treat a minor injury on a wild Bidoof in Faced with Steelix Determination!. Cynthia used a Super Potion in Top-Down Training! to help heal Paul's Torterra after it had been defeated by her Garchomp. Brock used a Super Potion on Meowth in Unlocking the Red Chain of Events!, treating a wound he had received during a confrontation with Team Galactic. Kellyn used a Super Potion on Aura Sphere Riolu in Pokémon Ranger and the Kidnapped Riolu! (Part 1) to treat an injury on its arm. Cilan used a Super Potion to cure his Pansage in A Home for Dwebble! after it had been hit by a rock on the head. The fever resulting from the hit was later cured by an herbal medicine made by Iris. Iris used a Super Potion to treat a wound on a wild Venipede in A Venipede Stampede!. Alder used a Super Potion to treat a wild Gigalith's wounds in Ash Versus the Champion!. Cynthia used a Super Potion to help heal Meloetta in All for the Love of Meloetta! after it had been ambushed and injured by Team Rocket. Professor Oak used a Super Potion on a Rotom in To Catch a Rotom!. This made Rotom so thankful, that it voluntarily allowed itself to be caught by him afterwards. In Team Rocket's Shocking Recruit!, Cilan used a Super Potion to treat an injury on Iris's Axew. Brock used a Super Potion to heal a wound on a wild Gyarados in BWS01, after it had been put asleep by Cilan's Pansage's Grass Whistle. Nurse Joy used a Super Potion to treat a wound on a wild Lapras in Bonnie for the Defense!. Dr. White used a Super Potion to treat Beatrice's Bidoof's gums in A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!. Clemont was seen using a Super Potion to treat a wound on a wild Bunnelby in a flashback in A Trip Down Memory Train!, which it had received while fighting a wild Diggersby. Nurse Joy was seen using a Super Potion to treat Froakie's wounds in a flashback in Cloudy Fate, Bright Future!. Alain was seen using a Super Potion to heal his Charizard during his challenge to defeat ten Mega Evolution Trainers in a row in Mega Evolution Special IV. Kimia used a Super Potion on an Amaura in Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel after it had been injured by a Pokémon hunter's trap. In The Power of Us, which is set in an alternate continuity, Toren gave Ash a Super Potion to help him heal injured Pokémon. Super Potion was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Original Series (the Japanese Original Era) in the Base Set expansion with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi. It was later released as an Item card in the XY expansion with new artwork by 5ban Graphics, first released in the Japanese Collection Y. In the Base Set print, this Trainer card allows the player to discard one Energy card attached to one of their Pokémon in order to remove up to four damage counters from that Pokémon. In the XY series print, this Trainer card allows the player to heal 60 damage from one of their Pokémon. The player must then discard an Energy attached to that Pokémon. A set of three travel bottles including one modelled after the Super Potion was released on November 28, 2024 as part of a travel goods collection of Pokémon merchandise exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Full Heal

The Full Heal (Japanese: なんでもなおし Heal-All) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It can be used to cure a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. It is an improved counterpart of the Antidote, Paralyze Heal, Burn Heal, Ice Heal, and Awakening, combining their effects into one. It has an improved counterpart in Full Restore. In early appearances, the Full Heal was depicted as a vaccine inside of a syringe-type device; this was later changed to being a "spray-type medicine" in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen. In Pokémon Crystal, Full Heal costs $500 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Full Heal can be bought in dozens at $5400 each, which equates to $450 per Full Heal. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, and freeze). In the Generation II games, an oversight causes the item to not cure a Pokémon of Nightmare (even after waking up from sleep) or of confusion when used by an opponent in battle. When used from the satchel on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, drowsy, burn, frostbite). The Full Heal appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 6 points to use. In Pokémon Conquest, the Full Heal can be used to cure a Pokémon from poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze, and confusion. A Full Heal can be purchased from the Shop in Terrera for 600-420 gold, and sold for 300-390 gold. The Full Heal card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!, and the Full Heal Energy card in available only in the latter game. In Pokémon Masters EX, Full Heals can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In Pokémon UNITE, the Full Heal is a battle item unlocked at Trainer Level 14. It removes all status conditions from one of the player's Pokémon and makes it immune to hindrances for a 1.5s. It has 50s cooldown. A Full Heal appeared in Finale!! The Battle Against the Other Dimension!, where Gladion received one sent to him by Moon in order to treat his injuries. Full Heal was included as a Trainer card in the first release of the TCG, the Base Set (Expansion Pack in Japan), with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi. After several reprints, it later received new art by Kinebuchi in the Japanese Pokémon-e Starter Deck, which made up part of the English Expedition Base Set. Full Heal wasn't reprinted again until the SoulSilver Collection when it was reclassified as an Item card; it also featured new artwork by Takashi Yamaguchi. While the print would be included in the English HeartGold & SoulSilver expansion, the Trainer card classifications weren't adopted until the Black & White expansion, which also included a reprint of Full Heal. Originating from the White Collection in Japan, it again features new artwork, this time by 5ban Graphics. 5ban Graphics also created the artwork for the next reprint included in the Furious Fists expansion (Japanese Rising Fist expansion). The Japanese Expansion Pack 20th Anniversary and English Evolutions expansion - sets celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Pokémon franchise - reprinted the card with its original Kinebuchi artwork, while it was given new artwork by Yoshinobu Saito as one of the Japanese S-P Promotional cards and in the Rebel Clash expansion. It removes all Special Conditions from one of the player's Active Pokémon. Full Heal was included as a Trainer card in the first Pokémon Trading Figure Game expansion, Next Quest. It removes all Special Conditions from one of the player's Pokémon. It uses the same artwork as the Full Heal Trainer card from the TCG's Expedition Base Set.

Title: Revive

The Revive (Japanese: げんきのかけら Vitality Fragment) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It revives a fainted Pokémon and restores half of its maximum HP. The Max Revive is a stronger version of this item. In Pokémon Crystal, Revive costs $1200 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Revive can be bought in dozens at $13500 each, which equates to $1125 per Revive. When used from the Bag on a fainted Pokémon, it revives the Pokémon and restores half of the Pokémon's maximum HP. It can be used on Shedinja despite always having a maximum HP of 1 (in which case its HP is technically fully restored). The Revive appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 11 points to use. A Revive can be used outside of battle to revive a Pokémon from fainting, restoring half of the Pokémon's maximum HP. They cannot be used during a battle. Pokémon can faint in Gym battles, Raid Battles, or by being knocked out of a Gym; Pokémon that faint in Trainer Battles do not remain fainted after the battle is complete. Revives are obtainable starting at level 5. The player obtains Revives when they level up to any level from 5 to 29. Completing certain Field Research or Special Research tasks The Revive card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. A Revive briefly appeared in The Discovery in Green's Bag. In You Need to Chill Out, Regice, Emerald used a Revive to restore his Sceptile during his battle against Brandon, allowing him to land a surprising Iron Tail on Brandon's Regice from behind and win the battle for Emerald. After the battle, Emerald revealed that he had managed to find a total of 99 Revives during his Battle Pyramid challenge. Saturn used a Revive off-panel in The Battle Rages On, reviving his fainted Rhyperior after it had been defeated by Hareta's Piplup. Revive was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Original Series (the Japanese Original Era) in the Base Set expansion with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi. It was reprinted in the Japanese Nivi City Gym Theme Deck. It was later released as an Item card in the Black & White expansion with new artwork by 5ban Graphics, first released in the Japanese White Collection expansion. This print was later reprinted in the Japanese Battle Theme Deck: Victini, and the Master Deck Build Box EX, released on September 14, 2012. During the XY Series, it was reprinted with new artwork by Toyste Beach in the Roaring Skies expansion, first released in the Japanese Emerald Break expansion. It was reprinted as a retro card in the Evolutions expansion, first released in the Japanese Expansion Pack 20th Anniversary subset, featuring the same artwork as the original print and an updated card template reminiscent of the Original Series layout. In the Base Set and Nivi City Gym prints, this Trainer card allows the player to put one Basic Pokémon card from their discard pile onto their Bench. The player must then put damage counters on that Pokémon equal to half its HP, rounded down. In the Black & White and XY series prints, the card was changed to remove the damage counter addition from the effect. A Revive is also seen in the illustration of the Yellow A Alternate art print of the Trainers' Mail card from the Roaring Skies expansion. The Revive has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. The Revive resembles a Star Piece from Paper Mario.

Title: Max Revive

The Max Revive (Japanese: げんきのかたまり Vitality Clump) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It revives a fainted Pokémon and restores all of its HP. When used from the Bag on a fainted Pokémon, it revives the Pokémon and restores all of the Pokémon's HP. The Max Revive appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 14 points to use. A Max Revive can be used outside of battle to revive a Pokémon from fainting, restoring all of the Pokémon's HP. They cannot be used during a battle. Pokémon can faint in Gym battles, Raid Battles, or by being knocked out of a Gym; Pokémon that faint in Trainer Battles do not remain fainted after the battle is complete. Max Revives can be purchased at the Shop in a bundle of six for 180. Starting level 30, Max Revives can also be obtained via gameplay. The player obtains Max Revives when they level up to any level from 30 onward. Additionally, the player can repeatably obtain Max Revives by Completing certain Field Research and Special Research tasks The Max Revive card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. In Up in the Air, Skyla used a Max Revive to restore an injured wild Pidove during the gathering of Gym Leaders at the Celestial Tower. In A Wretched Reunion, N used several Max Revives to restore his Pokémon after his battle against Black, White, and Cedric Juniper whilst planning to return to Team Plasma's base. In Finale!! The Battle Against the Other Dimension!, Moon used a Max Revive to restore Solgaleo, so that it, Lunala, and Zygarde could all unite for a combination attack to defeat Necrozma. In Crackle!! Retrieve the Sword & Shield, Henry used a Max Revive to restore Galarian Moltres. Max Revive was introduced as an Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Original Series (the Japanese Original Era) in the Gym Challenge expansion with artwork by Hikaru Koike. It was later included as an Item card with a completely different effect and new artwork by 5ban Graphics in the English XY expansion, first released in the Japanese Collection X. In the Gym Challenge print, this Trainer card allows the player to discard two Energy cards from their hand in order to put one Basic Pokémon from their discard pile onto their Bench. In the XY print, this Trainer card allows the player to put a Pokémon from their discard pile onto their Bench. Max Revive was included as a Trainer card in the first Pokémon Trading Figure Game expansion, Next Quest. It allows the player to move one of their Pokémon from the Pokémon Center to their Bench. It uses the same artwork as the Max Revive Trainer card from the TCG's Gym Challenge expansion. The Max Revive has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. The Max Revive is similar in appearance to konpeitō, a Portuguese and Japanese sugar candy. Geometrically, the Max Revive closely resembles the tetrakis hexahedron, a polyhedron consisting of a cube with its square faces substituted for square-based pyramids. However, the Sinnoh Underground version appears geometrically different, appearing to have square antiprismatic symmetry. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, if Celebi has fainted during the battle against Giovanni, Ethan/Lyra will notice and use a Max Revive on Celebi, as they need it to get better to return back to their original time.

Title: Fresh Water

Fresh Water (Japanese: おいしいみず Delicious Water) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It is a drink that restores a Pokémon's HP. Fresh Water is collected from Mt. Silver, according to the Japanese item description in Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal and Pokémon Stadium 2. This is also mentioned in the Korean item description in Pokémon Gold and Silver. It can be bought at a higher price of $1000 at Black City; $300 at Skyarrow Bridge; and $400 from the vending machines at the Route 112 and Mt. Chimney Cable Car stations in Hoenn and on Routes 8 and 13 in Alola. It can be bought at a cheaper price of $150 from the vending machines at the Team Magma Hideout, the Team Aqua Hideout, and the Game Freak Office in Heahea City. In the Generation V games, it can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $200. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 50 HP. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 30 HP. It is consumed after use. In the Kanto-based games, it can be given to a thirsty girl at the Celadon Department Store in exchange for TM13 (Ice Beam), TM16 (Light Screen), or TM06 (Light Screen). In the Generation I games, the player can give a Fresh Water, Soda Pop, or Lemonade to one of the Saffron City guards to be granted access to the city. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the player can give a Fresh Water to the thirsty guy at each of the Unova bridges, starting with Skyarrow Bridge, for a total of five bottles. In exchange, he gives the player twelve bottles of Moomoo Milk at Skyarrow Bridge. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, the player can give a Fresh Water to the Trial Guide on Route 13 at the entrance to Haina Desert in exchange for three Adrenaline Orbs. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, the player can give a Fresh Water to a Hiker in Haina Desert to receive ten new Fresh Waters from him at the Route 13 motel. Todd Snap was seen drinking a bottle of Fresh Water in Never Spritz a Knotty Sudowoodo. As he was unable to drink the whole bottle, he poured the remaining water onto what he thought was a tree, but soon turned out to be a wild Sudowoodo, causing her to attack him and requiring Emerald to calm her down. The Fresh Water Set was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era). It was first released in the Tidal Storm expansion before debuting in English in the Primal Clash expansion, with an illustration by Toyste Beach. It was reprinted in the Brilliant Stars expansion (the Japanese Star Birth expansion), with an illustration by AYUMI ODASHIMA. Fresh Water Set heals 20 damage from each of the player's Pokémon. Fresh Water has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. A real life version of Fresh Water is available for purchase at PokéPark Kanto from February 5, 2026. The most cost-effective HP recovery item in the core series, including special purchase prices, is the Fresh Water when purchased for $100 at the Kalos Power Plant in Pokémon X and Y, recovering 1 HP per $2 spent.

Title: Soda Pop

This article is about the item. For a song called "Soda Pop", see Pokémon the First Movie (soundtrack). Soda Pop (Japanese: サイコソーダ Saiko Soda) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It is a drink that restores a Pokémon's HP. It can be bought at a higher price of $600 from the vending machines at the Route 112 and Mt. Chimney Cable Car stations in Hoenn and on Routes 8 and 13 in Alola. It can be bought at a cheaper price of $250 from the vending machines at the Team Magma Hideout and Team Aqua Hideout. In the Generation V games, it can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $300. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 60 HP. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 50 HP. It is consumed after use. In the Kanto-based games, it can be given to a thirsty girl at the Celadon Department Store in exchange for TM48 (Rock Slide), TM20 (Safeguard), or TM09 (Reflect). In the Generation I games, the player can give a Fresh Water, Soda Pop, or Lemonade to one of the Saffron City guards to be granted access to the city. In The Fourth Round Rumble, Team Rocket slipped on a can of Soda Pop while running away from Officer Jenny. In Triple Leaders, Triple Threats!, Cress offered to bring Ash a Soda Pop, but he declined, wanting to have a Gym battle rather than a drink. In Mission: Defeat Your Rival!, Stephan was seen drinking Soda Pop. In Lost at the League!, a vendor gave a Soda Pop to Axew. In This Magik Moment!, a Soda Pop appeared as a part of a TV show starring Mallow, Lillie, and Lana. The Soda Pop has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. A real life version of Soda Pop is available for purchase at PokéPark Kanto from February 5, 2026. At normal purchase prices, the Soda Pop is the most cost-effective HP recovery item, recovering 1 HP per $6 spent. However, the Max Potion (as well as Full Restore and Revives in some cases) can potentially be more cost-effective if used under certain circumstances; the ideal situation for a Max Potion is a Blissey with maximum EVs and IVs in HP with 1 HP remaining, which would recover around 1 HP per $3.5 spent. Artwork from Generation I translates the name of the item as Psycho Soda. It also appears as Psycho Soda in Chapter 8 of Chuang Yi's translation of Pokémon Pocket Monsters Soda Pop may be based on ramune, a type of drink originating from Japan. In the fifth episode of A Pocketful of Adventures, Yuki Koide appeared drinking a Soda Pop.

Title: Lemonade

Lemonade (Japanese: ミックスオレ Mix au Lait) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It is a drink that restores a Pokémon's HP. It can be bought at a higher price of $700 from the Vending Machines at the Route 112 and Mt. Chimney Cable Car stations in Hoenn and on Alola Route 13. It can be bought at a cheaper price of $300 from the Vending Machines at the Team Magma Hideout and Team Aqua Hideout. In the Generation V games, it can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $350. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 80 HP. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 70 HP. It is consumed after use. In the Kanto-based games, it can be given to a thirsty girl at the Celadon Department Store in exchange for TM49 (Tri Attack), TM33 (Reflect), or TM07 (Protect). In the Generation I games, the player can give a Fresh Water, Soda Pop, or Lemonade to one of the Saffron City guards to be granted access to the city. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the player can leave a Lemonade at Memorial Pillar to receive TM42 (Facade). In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, Lemonade is one of the drinks served at Pokémon Center Cafés. In Electric Shock Showdown, Misty was seen buying a can of Lemonade from a vending machine in the Vermilion City Pokémon Center. In Brave the Wave, Jessie and James served two customers cans of Lemonade. In the dub, they were referred to as "Super Sodas". In Abandon Ship!, a disguised Team Rocket gave Ash and his friends a can of Lemonade each while on a boat to Slateport City. Later, while on the Forsaken Ship, Tommy gave the group more Lemonades. A Lemonade made a brief appearance as one of the items in Red's Bag in A Hollow Victreebel. In Pokémon Primers: Colors, a glass of Lemonade appears in the section about yellow things and Pokémon. This is described in the book as: "Yamper is excited to try some Lemonade!" The Lemonade has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. A real life version of Lemonade/Mix au Lait, labeled as "Fruits Au Lait", is available for purchase at PokéPark Kanto from February 5, 2026. It is made with dairy, oranges, apples, peaches, bananas, and soybeans.

Title: Moomoo Milk

Moomoo Milk (Japanese: モーモーミルク Moomoo Milk) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is a drink that restores a Pokémon's HP. In the Generation V games, it can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 100 HP. It is consumed after use. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, Moomoo Milk is one of the drinks served at Pokémon Center Cafés. Though unavailable as an item in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Miltank is said to deliver Moomoo Milk to the residents of Lively Town. After the epilogue, Miltank recruits the town's gangsters Krookodile and Krokorok to help her with her work. Moomoo Milk can be used as an ingredient in cooking, with a base Strength of 98. It can be used to cook the following recipes: Moomoo Milk can be gathered by the player's helper Pokémon. In Tanks for the Memories!, Ash and his friends visited the Mountain Hut Maid Café, which is famous for the Moomoo Milk it sells, some of which they tasted themselves. In An Egg Scramble!, bottles of Moomoo Milk were one of the things Khoury was selling at the Johto Festival. Khoury's father also gave Ash and his friends cones of ice cream made out of Moomoo Milk, while James was seen drinking a bottle of stolen Moomoo Milk. In Mission: Defeat Your Rival!, Ash and Cameron were seen drinking Moomoo Milk. In Lost at the League!, Stephan was seen drinking a bottle of Moomoo Milk. In Young Kiawe Had a Farm!, Kiawe and Ash delivered Moomoo Milk from Kiawe's family farm to some of the residents of Alola, including Mallow and Harry. In Big Sky, Small Fry!, Lillie gave some Moomoo Milk to Snowy while visiting Kiawe's family farm. In Mallow and the Forest Teacher!, Officer Jenny's Gumshoos was seen drinking some Moomoo Milk. In Mounting an Electrifying Charge!, Ash and Sophocles were seen drinking some Moomoo Milk. Later in the episode, during a pit stop at the Charjabug race, Ash gave Sophocles's Charjabug some Moomoo Milk for it to reenergize. After Sophocles's team won the race, Kiawe took the chance to advertise his Moomoo Milk on television. In A Dream Encounter!, Kiawe offered a bottle of Moomoo Milk to Nebby, but like almost all of the other foods and drinks offered to it, Nebby rejected it, much to Kiawe's exasperation. In The Dex Can't Help It!, Kiawe delivered a silo of Moomoo Milk to Mallow. In A Pinch of This, a Pinch of That!, Chloe used Moomoo Milk to make whipped cream. While she fetched some sugar, Bray Zenn took the whipped cream and used it as a "secret ingredient" for his curry. In Looking Out for Number Two!, Drake gave Ash and Goh some hot Moomoo Milk to drink. In Bewitch, Battle, and Bewilder! and Valor: A Strategic Part of Battling!, James's Morpeko was seen drinking some Moomoo Milk. In The Rainbow and the Pokémon Master!, Ash and Pikachu drank some Moomoo Milk. In Found You, Fuecoco!, Roy's grandfather served a bottle of Moomoo Milk along with some food for Liko, Roy, and Friede. In The Door That Never Opens, Murdock was revealed to have used Moomoo Milk to bake donuts for Dot. In Ludlow's Homecoming!, Liko, Roy, Dot, and Ludlow bought some Moomoo Milk for themselves and their Pokémon while visiting Olivine City. Eusine was given several bottles of Moomoo Milk from the Moomoo Farm in Miltank Melee. He was surprised by Crystal soon after, causing him to unintentionally drop and break all the milk bottles he had been holding. Cynthia's grandmother enjoys drinking bottles of Moomoo Milk at Café Cabin, as first shown in Suffering Psyduck. Cassius was seen drinking a bottle of Moomoo Milk in Overthrowing a Tyrunt. The Moo-Moo Milk was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Neo Series (the Japanese Neo Era) in the Neo Genesis expansion, and was later reprinted in the Pokémon VS expansion and the Expedition Base Set. The card was later reprinted under the name Moomoo Milk as a Trainer card (as an Item card in Japanese) during the English HeartGold & SoulSilver Series (the Japanese LEGEND Era) in the HeartGold & SoulSilver expansion. In Japanese, the Moomoo Milk has subsequently been reprinted in the Steelix Constructed Standard Deck and the HS Trainer Kit. In Neo Genesis, this card's artwork was changed between the Japanese and English releases. The original art (also by Tomokazu Komiya) depicts a Sentret suckling on a cow's udder, and was changed as it was seen as potentially inappropriate for the TCG's young audience. The subsequent Japanese Pokémon VS and Pokémon-e Starter Deck reprints applied this art change. As the Moo-Moo Milk, it allows the player to flip 2 coins, then remove 2 damage counters from a Pokémon for each heads. As the Moomoo Milk, it allows the player to flip 2 coins, then remove 3 damage counters from a Pokémon for each heads. The Moomoo Milk has been featured in various officially licensed merchandise. One of the figures in the Delibird Holiday Express line by The Pokémon Company International features a tank car with Moomoo Milk branding.

Title: Energy Powder

The Energy Powder (Japanese: ちからのこな Energy Powder), formatted EnergyPowder prior to Generation VI, is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is a type of herbal medicine that restores a Pokémon's HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 50 HP but lowers its friendship. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 60 HP but lowers its friendship. It is consumed after use. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, when pluralized or prefixed with the indefinite article, this item's name is rendered with a lowercase 'p' ("Energypowders" and "an Energypowder", respectively). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, both of these instances are corrected to display with a capital 'P', matching how the item's name would normally be rendered. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Energy Root

The Energy Root (Japanese: ちからのねっこ Energy Root) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is a type of herbal medicine that restores a Pokémon's HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 200 HP but lowers its friendship. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 120 HP but lowers its friendship. It is consumed after use. In A Rush of Ninja Wisdom!, Sanpei offered a pill made out of Energy Root to Ash after his Froakie had lost to him in battle. The remedy proved to be instantly effective, although Froakie greatly disliked the bitter taste. The Energy Root was released as a Pokémon Tool Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English EX Series (the Japanese PCG Era) in the EX Unseen Forces expansion. The card has never been reprinted. It features an illustration by Ryo Ueda. The Pokémon this card is attached to gains 20 additional HP but cannot use any Poké-Powers or Poké-Bodies.

Title: Heal Powder

The Heal Powder (Japanese: ばんのうごな Cure-all Powder) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is a type of herbal medicine that cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion but lowers its friendship. It is consumed after use. In The Brockster Is In!, a bottle of Heal Powder appeared as one of the items gathered from the passengers of a cruise ship in order to help cure the poisoned Pokémon Normajean was taking care of. Heal Powder was released as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Neo Series (the Japanese Neo Era) in the Neo Destiny expansion. The card has never been reprinted. It features an illustration by Ryuta Kusumi and CR CG gangs. It allows the player to flip a coin, then if the result is heads, one of their Pokémon is no longer Asleep, Confused, Paralyzed, or Poisoned and 2 damage counters are removed from it.

Title: Revival Herb

The Revival Herb (Japanese: ふっかつそう Revival Herb) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is a type of herbal medicine that revives a fainted Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a fainted Pokémon, it revives the Pokémon and restores it to full HP, but lowers its friendship. It is consumed after use. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire only, it restores the Pokémon to half of its maximum HP instead of full HP. Revival Herbs first appeared in White—Victini and Zekrom and Black—Victini and Reshiram. In Black—Victini and Reshiram, Luis was seen finding some with his Lillipup; in White—Victini and Zekrom, he was seen giving Damon a small bottle of Revival Herb potion in a flashback. Revival Herbs played a major role in Stopping the Rage of Legends! Part 1 and Part 2. Clay offered to accept Ash's challenge for a Gym battle if Ash brought him some Revival Herbs. First, Ash and his friends searched for them in the Driftveil Market, but were able to find only a single, already preordered Herb, forcing them to go to Milos Island in order to find some. Unfortunately, when they arrived there, they found out that all the Revival Herbs on the island had died out due to the lack of rain. Ash and his friends met a young man named Lewis, who told them about a legend of Tornadus, Thundurus, and Landorus. The first two had almost destroyed the island with their fight once, only to be stopped by Landorus, who had been healed from its battle injuries by a shrine maiden and her Gothorita with a Revival Herb. As a sign of gratitude, Landorus had turned the island into a fertile paradise, blooming with Revival Herbs. After Ash and his friends had saved the forces of nature from being captured by Team Rocket, effectively repeating the story of the legend in the process, the three Legendary Pokémon restored the island back to its fertile state, allowing Ash to get plenty of Revival Herbs for Clay. They were delivered to the Driftveil City Gym Leader at the beginning of Battling the King of the Mines!, in which Clay kept his promise and agreed to have a Gym battle with Ash in exchange for bringing him the herbs. In Mewtwo — Prologue to Awakening, Anna gave Oscar's Stoutland a small bottle of Revival Herb potion to be taken to Mewtwo. However, once Stoutland found Mewtwo, the Genetic Pokémon refused to take the medicine, saying it did not want any help from people. In Searching for a Wish!, Lotus was trying to grow Revival Herbs, despite the drought experienced in Capacia Island's mountains. After Jirachi restored the local water supply, the Revival Herb crops began to thrive. Multiple Revival Herbs appeared in Currying Favor and Flavor!, in which Ash and Mallow collected them to be used as ingredients for the "Akala Curry". Later, they used a couple of the herbs to heal Totem Lurantis and its ally Castform after Ash's trial against it. Out of curiosity, Litten also took a taste of the herbs and, like Castform, found its bitter taste unpleasant. In GRRR!! The Irrepairable Gears, Piers used a Revival Herb received from Nessa to revive his Malamar after it had been knocked out by Eternatus. The Life Herb (which has the same name as the Revival Herb in Japanese) was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English EX Series (the Japanese ADV Era) in EX Hidden Legends, with an illustration by Ryo Ueda. The Life Herb was later reclassified in Japanese as an Item card during the LEGEND Era, and has not been reclassified in English due to English Trainer cards not adopting this naming convention until after this card's latest print. It has been reprinted in the English EX FireRed & LeafGreen and Platinum expansions, and the Japanese Venusaur/Charizard/Blastoise Random Constructed Starter Decks, Metagross Constructed Starter Deck, Gift Box Emerald, and Entry Pack DPt. It allows the player to flip a coin, then if the result is heads, one of their Pokémon is cured of any Special Conditions and 6 damage counters are removed from it. Prior to Platinum, it cannot be used on Pokémon-ex. In the games, the Revival Herb is similar in appearance to the sundew, which is a medicinal herb.

Title: Ether

If you were looking for the character whose Japanese name is Ether, see Cherie. The Ether (Japanese: ピーピーエイド PP Aid) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It restores 10 PP for one of a Pokémon's moves. It has three improved counterparts: Max Ether, Elixir, and Max Elixir. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it fully restores 10 PP for one of its moves. The Ether appears as a Wonder Launcher item. It costs 12 points to use. In Chipping Away at Regirock, after a wild Misdreavus rendered Emerald's borrowed Shedinja unable to use Shadow Ball during his Battle Pyramid challenge by reducing its PP to zero with Grudge, Emerald used an Ether picked up by his borrowed Phanpy on Shedinja to restore it. Ether was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) in the Plasma Storm expansion. It has never been reprinted. This Trainer card allows the player to look at the top card of their deck, then attach it to one of their Pokémon if it is a basic Energy card.

Title: Max Ether

The Max Ether (Japanese: ピーピーリカバー PP Recover) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It fully restores PP for one of a Pokémon's moves. It is the improved counterpart of the Ether; it has an improved counterpart, the Max Elixir. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it fully restores the PP of one of its moves. The Max Ether appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX. It fully restores the PP of one of the moves of the Pokémon that ingests it. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught). There is an unused sprite for a Wonder Launcher item whose coloration resembles the Max Ether. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, wild Abra will always drop a Max Ether when defeated.

Title: Elixir

The Elixir (Japanese: ピーピーエイダー PP Aider), spelled Elixer in the Generation I and II games, is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It restores 10 PP for all of a Pokémon's moves. It is the improved counterpart of the Ether; it has an improved counterpart, the Max Elixir. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores 10 PP to all of its moves. The Elixir appears in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. It fully restores 10 PP to all the moves of the Pokémon that ingests it and restores 5 Belly for it. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will instead deal 2 damage. There is an unused sprite for a Wonder Launcher item whose coloration resembles the Elixir.

Title: Max Elixir

The Max Elixir (Japanese: ピーピーマックス PP Max), spelled Max Elixer in the Generation I and II games, is a type of medicine introduced in Generation I. It fully restores PP for all of a Pokémon's moves. It is the improved counterpart of both the Max Ether and the Elixir. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it fully restores the PP of all of its moves. The Max Elixir appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Sky, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. It fully restores the PP of all the moves of the Pokémon that ingests it and restores 5 Belly for it. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, it removes the sealed status from the Pokémon. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will also deal 2 damage. The Max Elixir can be blended into a drink at Spinda's Juice Bar; it can trigger a medium IQ boost, result in a recruitment, result in an Egg gift, or unlock a new dungeon. In Explorers of Sky, it has the corresponding Lookalike Item Mix Elixir. Max Elixir was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era) in the BREAKpoint expansion. In Japanese, it was reprinted in the Sun & Moon Era in the Premium Trainer Box. This Trainer card allows the player to attach one basic Energy card from the top 6 cards of their deck to a Basic Pokémon on their Bench. A Max Elixir is also seen in the illustration of the Yellow A Alternate art print of the Trainers' Mail card from the Roaring Skies expansion. The Japanese name of the Max Elixir is "PP Max", which is the name of a separate item in English. The PP Max's name in Japanese is "Point Max". There is an unused sprite for a Wonder Launcher item whose coloration resembles the Max Elixir.

Title: Lava Cookie

The Lava Cookie (Japanese: フエンせんべい Huen Rice Cracker) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation III. It is a local specialty of Lavaridge Town and cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. In the Generation V games, the Lava Cookie can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $4000. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Lava Cookies can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. They are unlocked at Trainer Rank 42 and cost 7,564 to unlock. A Lava Cookie appeared in The Brockster Is In!. An elderly passenger gave it to Brock to help cure the poisoned Pokémon Normajean was taking care of. In Battling as Hard as Stone!, Jessie and Morpeko were seen eating Lava Cookies. In The Final Battle I, Gold was seen eating some Lava Cookies at the Hoenn Battle Frontier. As it was the first time he came to Hoenn, he decided to try the region's famous delicacy, and found them delicious. The Lava Cookie has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. Lava Cookies appear to be based upon senbei, a traditional Japanese rice cracker, specifically one wrapped with nori (seaweed).

Title: Berry Juice

If you were looking for the Berry Juice sold at the Juice Shoppe, see Juice Shoppe. Berry Juice (Japanese: きのみジュース Berry Juice) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is a drink that restores a Pokémon's HP. It can be used as a held item. In the Generation V games, it can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $1500. If the holder's HP falls below 50%, it will consume its held Berry Juice and restore 20 HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores 20 HP to that Pokémon. It is consumed after use. In A Better Pill to Swallow, Old Man Shuckle was seen mixing various sorts of Berry Juice with his Shuckle, their effects varying from curing indigestion to attracting Pokémon. In Defending the Homeland!, Clemont mentioned having used Berry Juice as part of a new recipe that he had just made for the group. In Flying Pikachu, Rising Higher and Higher!, the Shuckle traveling with the Rising Volt Tacklers was revealed to produce Berry Juice for the crew to drink. Berry Juice is featured in the Shining Fates Morpeko card's illustration. While this item is unobtainable in the Generation III games, it was coded to be held by wild Shuckle that appear in Altering Cave in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, as well as by both Shuckle and Aipom in Pokémon Emerald's Altering Cave. However, these Pokémon can only appear in that location after using Mystery Gift at a Wonder Spot distributing the Altering Cave event, but this distribution never occurred. While wild Shuckle appear in the Safari Zone in Pokémon Emerald after obtaining the National Pokédex, they exclusively hold Oran Berries when caught there. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Sacred Ash

The Sacred Ash (Japanese: せいなるはい Sacred Ash) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation II. It is commonly associated with Ho-Oh. When used from the Bag, Sacred Ash fully restores the HP and PP of all Pokémon in the player's party, provided there is at least one fainted Pokémon in the party. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag, Sacred Ash fully restores the HP of all Pokémon in the player's party, provided there is at least one fainted Pokémon in the party. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag, Sacred Ash revives and fully restores the HP of all fainted Pokémon in the player's party. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use. Sacred Ash was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era). It was first released in the Flashfire expansion, featuring an illustration by PLANETA. This Trainer card allows the player to shuffle five Pokémon from their discard pile into their deck.

Title: Protein

The Protein (Japanese: タウリン Taurine) is a type of vitamin introduced in Generation I. It increases the Attack of a Pokémon. In Pokémon Crystal, Protein costs $7800 during the Goldenrod Department Store rooftop sale. In Hoenn, Protein costs $4900 during the Energy Guru sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Protein can be bought in dozens at $99960 each, which equates to $8330 per bottle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 2560 Attack Stat Experience to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 25600 Attack Stat Experience. In Generation II, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The Protein is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 10 Attack EVs to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 100 Attack EVs. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The Protein is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. Protein can now be used even on a Pokémon that has 100 Attack EVs or more, allowing the Attack EVs to be raised to the single-stat cap of 252 or the total cap of 510 this way. The Protein appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Sky, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. A consumable item that raises the Attack of Pokémon that ingests it by 3 and restores 5 Belly for it. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will also deal 2 damage. Protein can be blended into a drink at Spinda's Juice Bar, although it has no special effects. In The Clubsplosion Begins!, a full set of vitamins (excluding PP Up and PP Max) was announced to be the prize for winning the Clubsplosion, like how the set of wings was the prize for the Club Battle. They were eventually won by Stephan. In Weavile Wobbles But It Won't Fall Down, several kinds of vitamins were seen being sold at the Safari Zone Gate. A collection of keyholders designed after Protein and the other Vitamins has been released on December 12, 2024. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center

Title: Iron

If you were looking for the Beldum traded to the player with the nickname "Iron", see Steven Stone → Iron. The Iron (Japanese: ブロムヘキシン Bromhexine) is a type of vitamin introduced in Generation I. It increases the Defense of a Pokémon. In Hoenn, Iron costs $4900 during the Energy Guru sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Iron can be bought in dozens at $99960 each, which equates to $8330 per bottle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 2560 Defense Stat Experience to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 25600 Defense Stat Experience. In Generation II, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The Iron is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 10 Defense EVs to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 100 Defense EVs. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The Iron is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. Iron can now be used even on a Pokémon that has 100 Defense EVs or more, allowing the Defense EVs to be raised to the single-stat cap of 252 or the total cap of 510 this way. The Iron appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. A consumable item that raises the Defense of Pokémon that ingests it by 3 and restores 5 Belly for it. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will also deal 2 damage. Iron can be blended into a drink at Spinda's Juice Bar, although it has no special effects. In The Clubsplosion Begins!, a full set of vitamins (excluding PP Up and PP Max) was announced to be the prize for winning the Clubsplosion, like how the set of wings was the prize for the Club Battle. They were eventually won by Stephan. In Weavile Wobbles But It Won't Fall Down, several kinds of vitamins were seen being sold at the Safari Zone Gate. A collection of keyholders designed after Iron and the other Vitamins has been released on December 12, 2024. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Carbos

The Carbos (Japanese: インドメタシン Indometacin) is a type of vitamin introduced in Generation I. It increases the Speed of a Pokémon. In Hoenn, Carbos costs $4900 during the Energy Guru sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Carbos can be bought in dozens at $99960 each, which equates to $8330 per bottle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 2560 Speed Stat Experience to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 25600 Speed Stat Experience. In Generation II, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. Carbos is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 10 Speed EVs to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 100 Speed EVs. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. Carbos is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. Carbos can now be used even on a Pokémon that has 100 Speed EVs or more, allowing the Speed EVs to be raised to the single-stat cap of 252 or the total cap of 510 this way. The Carbos appears in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. A consumable item that raises the Speed of Pokémon that drink it by 3 and restores 5 Belly for it. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will also deal 2 damage. In The Clubsplosion Begins!, a full set of vitamins (excluding PP Up and PP Max) was announced to be the prize for winning the Clubsplosion, like how the set of wings was the prize for the Club Battle. They were eventually won by Stephan. In Weavile Wobbles But It Won't Fall Down, several kinds of vitamins were seen being sold at the Safari Zone Gate. A collection of keyholders designed after Carbos and the other Vitamins has been released on December 12, 2024. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Calcium

The Calcium (Japanese: リゾチウム Lysozyme) is a type of vitamin introduced in Generation I. It increases the Special Attack of a Pokémon. In Hoenn, Calcium costs $4900 during the Energy Guru sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Calcium can be bought in dozens at $99960 each, which equates to $8330 per bottle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, Calcium adds 2560 Special Stat Experience to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 25600 Special Stat Experience. In Generation II, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The Calcium is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, Calcium adds 10 Special Attack EVs to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 100 Special Attack EVs. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The Calcium is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. Calcium can now be used even on a Pokémon that has 100 Special Attack EVs or more, allowing the Special Attack EVs to be raised to the single-stat cap of 252 or the total cap of 510 this way. This raises the limit to a maximum of 26 on a single Pokémon. The Calcium appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. A consumable item that raises the Special Attack of Pokémon that ingests it by 3 and restores 5 Belly for it. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will also deal 2 damage. Calcium can be blended into a drink at Spinda's Juice Bar, although it has no special effects. Calcium debuted in The Joy of Pokémon, where Nurse Joy gave a whole bottle of these tablets to a giant Magikarp. In The Clubsplosion Begins!, a full set of vitamins (excluding PP Up and PP Max) was announced to be the prize for winning the Clubsplosion, like how the set of wings was the prize for the Club Battle. They were eventually won by Stephan. In Weavile Wobbles But It Won't Fall Down, several kinds of vitamins were seen being sold at the Safari Zone Gate. A collection of keyholders designed after Calcium and the other Vitamins has been released on December 12, 2024. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Rare Candy

Rare Candy (Japanese: ふしぎなアメ Mystery Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation I. In the English manuals of the Generation I, II, and III games, Rare Candy is grouped alongside vitamins and battle items under the "Pokémon Power-Ups" category. In the Generation V games, the Rare Candy can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $10000. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's level by 1, up to level 100. After leveling up, it will have the minimum required experience for its current level. It can only be used outside of battle. When leveled up via Rare Candy, the Pokémon will learn any level-up moves for its new level, and evolve if it evolves by leveling up and meets the requirements. In Pokémon Stadium only, Pokémon do not learn moves or evolve when leveled-up via Rare Candy (but they do in Pokémon Stadium 2). If used on a fainted Pokémon, it will be revived. When Rare Candy is used to revive and level up a Pokémon, it will have either 2 HP remaining or its remaining HP will equal to the amount its maximum HP increased (except Shedinja, which will always be revived with its maximum 1 HP prior to Generation VI). The Rare Candy also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. Using a Rare Candy on a fainted Shedinja no longer recovers it from fainting. If a Rare Candy is used on a level 100 Pokémon that is able to evolve when leveling up (including those that evolve at a certain level, or with high friendship, or knowing a certain move, among other Evolution methods) and currently meets its Evolution requirements, this Pokémon will evolve without gaining a level; fainted Pokémon will not be revived if evolved this way. The player can cancel this Evolution by pressing the B Button, but this will waste the Rare Candy. If the player attempts to use a Rare Candy on a level 100 Pokémon that is currently holding an Everstone, the Evolution is not allowed and the Rare Candy is not consumed. Exceptionally, Tandemaus is unable to evolve by the use of a Rare Candy since it must specifically level up in battle. In the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series, Joy Seeds are the equivalent of Rare Candy. In Pokémon GO, the Rare Candy was introduced on June 22, 2017. The player can use Rare Candy on any Pokémon from their collection and choose a number of Rare Candies to be turned into Candy for that Pokémon's evolutionary line. In December 2020, Candy XL was introduced to allow Pokémon to power up past Lv. 40. Rare Candy XL was simultaneously introduced, serving the same function as Rare Candy, but for Candy XL. The repeatable methods listed are random and not guaranteed, unless noted otherwise. Rare Candy appeared in Caterpie's Big Dilemma. However, unlike in the games, where Rare Candy levels up a Pokémon, in the episode, it actually makes the Pokémon grow giant (and in some cases become uncontrollable) due to the fact that this was a specially modified and experimental version of it, dubbed by Dr. Gordon as "Mystery Candy Complete". Brock said that the original would merely "enhance a Pokémon's abilities". Also, due to a dubbing error, the Rare Candy was referred to by a direct translation of its Japanese name, "Mystery Candy". Several Rare Candies were briefly seen in N's room in a flashback in The Plan. In Innocent Scientist, Blake revealed that he had given his Dewott a Rare Candy and Resist Wing before heading to battle Genesect, boosting his defenses just enough for him to be able to survive an Electric-type Techno Blast. The Rare Candy was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English EX Series (the Japanese ADV Era) in the EX Sandstorm expansion. Rare Candy was later reclassified in Japanese as an Item card during the LEGEND Era, and was reclassified in English in the Black & White Series (due to the classification not existing until then). It has been reprinted in the English HeartGold & SoulSilver Series (the Japanese LEGEND Era), the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era), the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era), the English Sun & Moon Series (the Japanese Sun & Moon Era), the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era), and the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). Prior to Black & White, this card allowed the player to evolve a Basic Pokémon directly into a Stage 1 or Stage 2 Pokémon from their hand. With the release of Black & White, an erratum was issued for this card, making its effect the same effect as Pokémon Breeder from the Base Set, allowing the player to evolve a Basic Pokémon into a Stage 2 Pokémon from their hand. The post-erratum effect was first printed in Dark Explorers. In Pokémon Power #1 (page 3), there is a Rare Candy ad with the text "Look for it at your local supermarket!" However, this item was not sold anywhere in the Generation I games back when this magazine was published. In Generations I and II, if a Pokémon is level 101 or higher (which is only possible by exploiting glitches), it can be leveled up using Rare Candies until level 255; using a Rare Candy on a level 255 Pokémon causes it to wrap around to level 0. (Rare Candies cannot be used on level 0 Pokémon.) In an interview, Junichi Masuda said that humans may be able to consume Rare Candies, but they probably would not like them as this is the equivalent of eating dog food in the real world. In Generation VIII, Exp. Candy was introduced as well, which gives fixed amounts of experience to Pokémon. Rare Candies are often less efficient than Exp. Candy because they only give enough experience to reach the next level, though Rare Candies can be the most efficient candy if a Pokémon requires more than 30,000 experience points at its current level to level up (this can only occur for Pokémon in the Medium Slow, Slow, or Fluctuating experience groups).

Title: Zinc

The Zinc (Japanese: キトサン Chitosan) is a type of vitamin introduced in Generation III. It increases the Special Defense of a Pokémon. In Hoenn, Zinc costs $4900 during the Energy Guru sale. At Join Avenue's Market, Zinc can be bought in dozens at $99960 each, which equates to $8330 per bottle. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, adds 10 Special Defense EVs to the target Pokémon per use, until it has 100 Special Defense EVs. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. Zinc is consumed upon use and cannot be used in battle. Zinc can now be used even on a Pokémon that has 100 Special Defense EVs or more, allowing the Special Defense EVs to be raised to the single-stat cap of 252 or the total cap of 510 this way. The Zinc appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. A consumable item that raises the Special Defense of Pokémon that ingests it by 3 and restores 5 Belly for it (prior to Gates to Infinity). If the Special Defense stat is at 255, it cannot be raised higher. If thrown, it will grant the same effect as if it was consumed by the Pokémon it hits (it cannot be caught); if it is sticky, it will also deal 2 damage. Zinc can be blended into a drink at Spinda's Juice Bar, although it has no special effects. In The Clubsplosion Begins!, a full set of vitamins (excluding PP Up and PP Max) was announced to be the prize for winning the Clubsplosion, like how the set of wings was the prize for the Club Battle. They were eventually won by Stephan. In Weavile Wobbles But It Won't Fall Down, several kinds of vitamins were seen being sold at the Safari Zone Gate. A collection of keyholders designed after Zinc and the other Vitamins has been released on December 12, 2024. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Old Gateau

The Old Gateau (Japanese: もりのヨウカン Forest Yōkan) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation IV. It is a local specialty of the Old Chateau and cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. It is also known as the Mirage Gateau according to the Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl episode Get Your Rotom Running!. In the Generation V games, the Old Gateau can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $4000. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Old Gateaux can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. They are unlocked at Trainer Rank 73 and cost 429,910 to unlock. Old Gateau was first seen in Get Your Rotom Running!, where Ash and his friends went to the Old Chateau to try some of the famous treat at the recommendation of Professor Oak. In Beating the Bustle and Hustle!, James mentioned that there was Old Gateau and Lum Berries on the menu in the Sinnoh Pokémon Hustle Refreshment Room. A piece of Old Gateau appeared in Getting a Jump on the Competition!. In The Fiery Road to Mastership! and Valor: A Strategic Part of Battling!, James's Morpeko was seen eating Old Gateaux. In Robust Rotom, Diamond served Platinum some Old Gateau for tea time during their stay at the Old Chateau. In The Final Dimensional Duel XI, Professor Rowan was shown eating some Old Gateau. A miniature of an Old Gateau and its packaging was included in the Sinnoh goods set from the Pokémon World Market merchandise line that was made by Re-Ment and exclusive to the Pokémon Center. The Munchlax figure of the Delicious Adventure line by The Pokémon Company International is also holding an Old Gateau. Edible Old Gateaux (Yōkan) have also been released in 2017 and 2021 and were exclusive to the Pokémon Center. Old Gateau's name in both English and Japanese is a pun based on the location it is found. In English, the French word gâteau ("cake") plays on château. In Japanese, the Chateau's name is "Forest Manor" (Japanese: もりのようかん) while the Gateau's name is "Forest Yōkan" (Japanese: もりのヨウカン); the two terms are homophones and are pronounced as mori no yōkan. The English names of the Old Chateau and Old Gateau were coined by translator Nob Ogasawara, intending to preserve the pun in the original Japanese text. According to Nob, he was able to keep the Old Chateau/Old Gateau pun in part due to him being able to give more input in the localization process from Generation III onward. The French and Italian translations also incorporate a pun between gâteau and château, but whether they were based on the English translation or conceived independently is unclear. In the games, "Old Gateau" is usually pluralized as "Old Gateaux". However, the description of the Souvenir Set in Join Avenue says "A set of two Old Gateaus. The cake heals all the status problems of one Pokémon."

Title: Dire Hit

The Dire Hit (Japanese: クリティカット Criticut, known as クリティカッター Criticutter prior to Generation V and in Hisui) is a type of battle item introduced in Generation I. It temporarily boosts a Pokémon's critical hit ratio. At Join Avenue's Market, Dire Hit can be bought in dozens at $5850 each, which equates to $487.5 per Dire Hit. Dire Hit replicates the effect of the move Focus Energy, which itself has changed through the generations. It does not stack with Focus Energy or other Dire Hits. When used on a Pokémon from the Bag during battle, the Pokémon's chance of getting a critical hit is reduced by 75% (due to a glitch) while it is in battle. When used on a Pokémon from the Bag during battle, it raises that Pokémon's critical hit ratio by 1 stage while it is in battle. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. This improves the default critical hit odds from 17/256 to 1/8. When used on a Pokémon from the Bag during battle, it raises that Pokémon's critical hit ratio by 2 stages while it is in battle. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. This improves the default critical hit odds from 1/16 to 1/4 (Gen. III-V), from 1/16 to 1/2 (Gen. VI), or from 1/24 to 1/2 (Gen. VII+). The Dire Hit appears as three Wonder Launcher items, increasing the critical hit ratio by 1, 2, or 3 stages. It costs 3, 5, or 7 points to use respectively. In Pokémon Masters EX, Dire Hits can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In addition, several variants of Dire Hit can be used by certain sync pairs. All of these item moves have 2 MP. A full list of all sync pairs who can learn Dire Hit, Dire Hit +, Dire Hit All, or Dire Hit All + can be found here. In Generation V, a boy in Nacrene City mentions that Dire Hit is called Dire Hit in Unova. This is a reference to the change in the Japanese name of Dire Hit from クリティカッター Criticutter to クリティカット Criticut, in order to make room for the number-level reference of Wonder Launcher items. Because "Dire Hit" is much shorter than the 12-character limit on English item names, this issue does not come up in the translated games.

Title: X Attack

The X Attack (Japanese: プラスパワー Plus Power) is a type of battle item introduced in Generation I. It temporarily boosts a Pokémon's Attack stat. At Join Avenue's Market, X Attack can be bought in dozens at $4500 each, which equates to $375 per X Attack. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Attack of a Pokémon currently in battle by 1 level. From Generation II onward, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Attack of a Pokémon currently in battle by 2 levels. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The X Attack appears as four Wonder Launcher items, increasing the Attack stat by 1, 2, 3 or 6 levels. It costs 3, 5, 7, or 11 points to use respectively. X Attack (along with X Defense and X Speed) appears in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U as equipment that any of the five playable Pokémon can use. X Attack raises the holder's Attack while lowering Defense. While it will occasionally come with a special effect, the ones without effects come in three rarities: normal, Threefold, and Sixfold. After rescuing a distressed Mii in an area, they will occasionally use X Attacks (along with X Defenses, X Speeds, or Potions). What they give out is chosen randomly upon being rescued. The X Attack boost the Attack stat for some time. The PlusPower card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. In Pokémon Masters EX, X Attacks can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In addition, a variant of X Attack called X Attack All can be used by certain sync pairs. Both of these item moves have 2 MP. An X Attack only raises the user's Attack, while an X Attack All raises the Attack of all allies. A full list of all sync pairs who can learn X Attack or X Attack All can be found here. In Pokémon UNITE, the X Attack is a battle item unlocked at Trainer Level 7. It raises the player's Pokémon's Attack and Sp. Atk by 20% and its basic Attack Speed by 25% for 7s. It has 40s cooldown. In Movie Time! Zorua in "The Legend of the Pokémon Knight"!, a Wonder Launcher X Attack appeared as part of a movie named Wonder Fighters the Movie Part 24: The Mystery of the Wonder Launcher. In the clip in the advertisement Ash, Iris, and Cilan saw, two Trainers battled using a Golurk and an Escavalier and used the Wonder Launchers to power up their Pokémon, with the Wonder Fighter using an X Attack on her Golurk. An X Attack was mentioned to be present among the fake items Green offered to sell Red in Wartortle Wars. The English language release of the X Attack uses the direct translation of its Japanese name PlusPower. It was introduced as an Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Original Series (the Japanese Original Era) in the Base Set expansion with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi. It was reprinted in the Base Set 2 expansion. It was reprinted again in the Japanese Tamamushi City Gym and Yamabuki City Gym theme decks, and the Chikorita Side Deck of the Japanese Intro Pack Neo. It was later reprinted with updated text and new artwork by Ryo Ueda in the Diamond & Pearl expansion, first released in the Japanese Space-Time Creation expansion. The key difference between the original and this print is that the original applied its effect after applying Weakness and Resistance, while the new print applied its effect before applying Weakness and Resistance. This print was reprinted in the Secret Wonders expansion, first released in the Japanese Dialga LV.X and Palkia LV.X Constructed Standard Decks, in both half decks of the Japanese Magmortar vs Electivire Deck Kit, the Infernape Half Deck of the Japanese Entry Pack '08. It was reprinted again in the Platinum expansion, first released in the Giratina Half Deck of the Japanese Entry Pack DPt. PlusPower was later reclassified in Japan as an Item card during the LEGEND Era, though the English prints did not adopt this naming convention until the release of the Black & White expansion. It was reprinted in the Unleashed expansion with new artwork by Hideaki Hakozaki, first released in the Raichu Starter Deck of the Japanese Battle Starter Decks. This print changes "Active Pokémon" in the second paragraph to "Defending Pokémon", easing possible confusion over the intended target of the card's effect, but was later given errata to revert it back to the wording first used in the Diamond & Pearl print. It was then reprinted in the Japanese Reviving Legends expansion with new artwork by Ryo Ueda. This print was later included in the Black & White expansion, first released in the Japanese White Collection expansion with new artwork by 5ban Graphics. It was later reprinted in Japan as one of the BW-P Promotional cards with a commemorative stamp awarded to those who participated in the Summer Carnival Cup at the Summer Carnival from July 23 to August 28. It was reprinted again in the Japanese Master Deck Build Box EX and Everyone's Exciting Battle. PlusPower increases the damage the Pokémon it is attached to does to the Defending Pokémon by 10 during this turn. X Attack was included as a Trainer card in the first Pokémon Trading Figure Game expansion, Next Quest. It increases the damage one Pokémon does by 30 during this turn. It uses the same artwork as the PlusPower Trainer card from the TCG's Base Set.

Title: X Defense

The X Defense (Japanese: ディフェンダー Defender), known as X Defend prior to Generation VI, is a type of battle item introduced in Generation I. It temporarily boosts a Pokémon's Defense stat. At Join Avenue's Market, X Defend can be bought in dozens at $4950 each, which equates to $412.5 per X Defend. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Defense of a Pokémon currently in battle by 1 level. From Generation II onward, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Defense of a Pokémon currently in battle by 2 levels. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The X Defend appears as four Wonder Launcher items, increasing the Defense stat by 1, 2, 3 or 6 levels. It costs 3, 5, 7, or 11 points to use respectively. X Defense (along with X Attack and X Speed) appears in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U as equipment that any of the five playable Pokémon can use. X Defense raises the holder's Defense while lowering Speed. While it will occasionally come with a special effect, the ones without effects come in three rarities: normal, Threefold, and Sixfold. After rescuing a distressed Mii in an area, they will occasionally use X Defenses (along with X Attacks, X Speeds, or Potions). What they give out is chosen randomly upon being rescued. The X Defense boosts the Defense stat for some time. The Defender card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. In Pokémon Masters EX, X Defenses can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In addition, a variant of X Defense called X Defense All can be used by certain sync pairs. Both of these item moves have 2 MP. An X Defense only raises the user's Defense, while an X Defense All raises the Defense of all allies. A full list of all sync pairs who can learn X Defense or X Defense All can be found here. Another variant of X Defense exists called X Defense All +. This item move also has 2 MP, and it raises the Defense of all allies by 3 stat ranks. It is exclusively usable by Lillie & Prinplup in Victory Road. The English language release of the X Defense uses the direct translation of its Japanese name Defender. Defender's first apparence was in the Trainer Deck A, before the Base Set's official release. This print has a red border and "Trainer Deck A" printed on the back. This card was included in the Base Set with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi, first released in the Japanese Expansion Pack. It was reprinted in the Base Set 2 expansion. It was reprinted again in the Japanese Hanada, Kuchiba, Tamamushi, and Yamabuki City Gym theme decks, and the Totodile Half Deck of the Japanese Intro Pack Neo. This card was later reprinted in the Undaunted expansion with new artwork by Ryo Ueda, first released in the Japanese Reviving Legends expansion. Alongside Black and White, this card received an erratum to change "by an opponent's attack" to "by attacks". Defender reduces the damage done to the Pokémon Defender is attached to by attacks by 20 during the opponent's next turn.

Title: X Speed

The X Speed (Japanese: スピーダー Speeder) is a type of battle item introduced in Generation I. It temporarily boosts a Pokémon's Speed stat. At Join Avenue's Market, X Speed can be bought in dozens at $3150 each, which equates to $262.5 per X Speed. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Speed of a Pokémon currently in battle by 1 level. From Generation II onward, it also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Speed of a Pokémon currently in battle by 2 levels. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. The X Speed appears as four Wonder Launcher items, increasing the Speed stat by 1, 2, 3 or 6 levels. It costs 3, 5, 7, or 11 points to use respectively. X Speed (along with X Attack and X Defense) appears in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U as equipment that any of the five playable Pokémon can use. X Speed raises the holder's Speed while lowering Attack. While it will occasionally come with a special effect, the ones without effects come in three rarities: normal, Threefold, and Sixfold. After rescuing a distressed Mii in an area, they will occasionally use X Speeds (along with X Attacks, X Defenses, or Potions). What they give out is chosen randomly upon being rescued. The X Speed boosts the Speed stat for some time. In Pokémon Masters EX, X Speeds can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In addition, several variants of X Speed can be used by certain sync pairs. X Speed and all its variants have 2 MP except for EX Speed, which only has 1 MP. A full list of all sync pairs who can learn X Speed, X Speed +, EX Speed, X Speed All, or X Speed All + can be found here. In Pokémon UNITE, the X Speed is a battle item unlocked at Trainer Level 8. It raises the player's Pokémon's movement speed by 45% and makes it immune to move speed reduction for 7s. It has 50s cooldown. In Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket, X Speed appears as an Item card that can be used to reduce the Retreat Cost of a player's Active Pokémon for a single turn. In Movie Time! Zorua in "The Legend of the Pokémon Knight"!, a Wonder Launcher X Speed appeared as part of a movie named Wonder Fighters the Movie Part 24: The Mystery of the Wonder Launcher. In the clip in the advertisement Ash, Iris, and Cilan saw, two Trainers battled using a Golurk and an Escavalier and used the Wonder Launchers to power up their Pokémon, with the Wonder Fighter's opponent using an X Speed on his Escavalier.

Title: X Accuracy

The X Accuracy (Japanese: ヨクアタール Hits Well) is a type of battle item introduced in Generation I. It temporarily boosts a Pokémon's accuracy. At Join Avenue's Market, X Accuracy can be bought in dozens at $8550 each, which equates to $712.5 per X Accuracy. When used from the Bag during battle, it makes the Pokémon's moves ignore accuracy checks. It also allows one-hit knockout moves to always hit but will still fail if the target has a higher Speed (in Generation I) or level (in Generation II) than the user. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the accuracy of a Pokémon currently in battle by 1 level. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. One-hit knockout moves are no longer affected by X Accuracy. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the accuracy of a Pokémon currently in battle by 2 levels. It also increases the Pokémon's friendship a little. One-hit knockout moves are unaffected by X Accuracy. The X Accuracy appears as four Wonder Launcher items, increasing Accuracy by 1, 2, 3, or 6 stages. It costs 3, 5, 7, or 11 points to use respectively. X Accuracy is a Trainer card introduced in the Next Quest expansion. When used, if the targeted Pokémon spins a Miss in battle on that turn, it spins again. In Pokémon Duel, X Accuracy is a Plate. When used, if the targeted Pokémon spins a Miss in battle on that turn, it will shift to the next wheel segment. In Pokémon Masters EX, X Accuracies can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. In addition, a variant of X Accuracy called X Accuracy All can be used by certain sync pairs. Both of these item moves have 2 MP. An X Accuracy only raises the user's accuracy, while an X Accuracy All raises the accuracy of all allies. A full list of all sync pairs who can learn X Accuracy or X Accuracy All can be found here. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, using the "Call" command on a non-Shadow Pokémon that isn't asleep serves the same in-battle purpose as an X Accuracy.

Title: Fluffy Tail

The Fluffy Tail (Japanese: エネコのシッポ Eneco's Tail) is an item introduced in Generation III. It can be used to escape from a battle with a wild Pokémon. When used from the Bag during a battle with a wild Pokémon, it allows the player to escape instantly regardless of any factors that would otherwise prevent escape. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, it cannot be used to escape from wild Pokémon at Poké Spots. In Pokémon UNITE, the Fluffy Tail inflicts a debuff on a wild Pokémon for 3s. It prevents them from attacking and caused direct damage to trigger an additional hit equal to 100% of Attack + 60% of Sp. Attack + 10 * (Level - 1) + 100; the additional hit has a 0.5s cooldown. The Fluffy Tail is seen in the artwork of the illustration rare print of the Litten card from the Temporal Forces expansion.

Title: Blue Flute

The Blue Flute (Japanese: あおいビードロ Blue Vidro) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation III. It is one of the flutes. In the Generation V games, the Blue Flute can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $7000. When used in the field or in battle, it wakes a sleeping Pokémon. When used in battle, it wakes a sleeping Pokémon. The Blue Flute cannot be used outside of battle. The Blue Flute serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. When used in the field or in battle, it wakes a sleeping Pokémon. In Serving Up the Flute Cup!, a Blue Flute was included in the set of flutes promised for the winner of the Battle Frontier Flute Cup, which was eventually won by Ash. The Blue Flute (along with the Red Flute and Yellow Flute) was moved to the medicine pocket in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, meaning that it has been in three different bag pockets over three generations.

Title: Yellow Flute

The Yellow Flute (Japanese: きいろビードロ Yellow Vidro) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation III. It is one of the flutes. In the Generation V games, the Yellow Flute can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $7500. When used in battle, it snaps a Pokémon out of confusion. The Yellow Flute serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. When used in battle, it snaps a Pokémon out of confusion. In Serving Up the Flute Cup!, a Yellow Flute was included in the set of flutes promised for the winner of the Battle Frontier Flute Cup, which was eventually won by Ash. The Yellow Flute (along with the Blue Flute and Red Flute) was moved to the medicine pocket in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, meaning that it has been in three different bag pockets over three generations. The Yellow Flute is the only one of the flutes obtainable outside Hoenn without trading in Generation III.

Title: Red Flute

The Red Flute (Japanese: あかいビードロ Red Vidro) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation III. It is one of the flutes. In the Generation V games, the Red Flute can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $7500. When used in battle, it snaps a Pokémon out of infatuation. The Red Flute serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. When used in battle, it snaps a Pokémon out of infatuation. In Serving Up the Flute Cup!, a Red Flute was among the set of flutes promised for the winner of the Battle Frontier Flute Cup, which was eventually won by Ash. Mimey was seen playing the Red Flute at the end of the episode. The Red Flute (along with the Blue Flute and Yellow Flute) was moved to the medicine pocket in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, meaning that it has been in three different bag pockets over three generations.

Title: Black Flute

The Black Flute (Japanese: くろいビードロ Black Vidro) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the flutes. In the Generation V games, the Black Flute can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $8000. When used in the field, it reduces wild Pokémon encounter rate by 50%. This effect lasts until a map transition takes place. The Black Flute serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. When used in the field, it increases the level of wild Pokémon by 1 to 4 levels. The effect disappears when the player leaves the area. In Serving Up the Flute Cup!, a Black Flute was included in the set of flutes promised for the winner of the Battle Frontier Flute Cup, which was eventually won by Ash.

Title: White Flute

The White Flute (Japanese: しろいビードロ White Vidro) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the flutes. In the Generation V games, the White Flute can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $8000. When used in the field, it increases wild Pokémon encounter rate by 50%. This effect will last until a map transition takes place. The White Flute serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. When used in the field, it decreases the level of wild Pokémon by 1 to 4 levels. The effect disappears when the player leaves the area. In Serving Up the Flute Cup!, a White Flute was included in the set of flutes promised for the winner of the Battle Frontier Flute Cup, which was eventually won by Ash. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, it is possible to encounter wild level 1 Pokémon by using the White Flute (which otherwise is unusual in the Pokémon games) by using it on an area with level 5 or lower Pokémon. Specifically, the following species can be encountered in the wild at level 1 this way: Tentacool, Geodude, Goldeen, Magikarp, Poochyena, Zigzagoon, Wurmple, Lotad, Seedot, Taillow, Wingull, Ralts, Surskit, Shroomish, Slakoth, Nincada, Whismur, Skitty, Shellos, Chatot, Lillipup, Pidove, Tympole, Sewaddle, Zorua, and Gothita.

Title: Shoal Salt

The Shoal Salt (Japanese: あさせのしお Shoal Salt) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. In Hoenn, it can be used along with Shoal Shells to make Shell Bells. In the Generation V games, the Shoal Salt can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $7000. In Hoenn, the player can give four Shoal Salt and four Shoal Shells to the old man in Shoal Cave to make a Shell Bell. Due to a mistake in the Pokémon Diamond and Pearl: Official Nintendo Player's Guide, there was a rumor that the Shoal Salt functions like the Leftovers in Generation IV. However, this was an error; the Shell Bell (which is created from Shoal Salt and Shoal Shells) is the item that functions similarly to Leftovers.

Title: Shoal Shell

The Shoal Shell (Japanese: あさせのかいがら Shoal Seashell) is a valuable item introduced in Generation III. In Hoenn, it can be used along with Shoal Salt to make Shell Bells. In the Generation V games, the Shoal Shell can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $7000. In Hoenn, the player can give four Shoal Salt and four Shoal Shells to the old man in Shoal Cave to make a Shell Bell.

Title: Red Shard

The Red Shard (Japanese: あかいかけら Red Shard) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the Shards. In the Generation V games, the Red Shard can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $200. In Hoenn, a Red Shard can be exchanged with the Treasure Hunter on Route 124 for a Fire Stone. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, ten Red Shards can be exchanged with the shard collector on Route 212 for TM11 (Sunny Day). In Pokémon Platinum, 2, 4, 6, or 8 Red Shards can be exchanged with Move Tutors to teach Pokémon moves. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, a Red Shard can be exchanged with the Juggler in Violet City for a Cheri, Leppa, and Pecha Berry, or with the Juggler in Fuchsia City for a Persim, Razz, and Pomeg Berry. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, 2, 4, 6, 8, or 10 Red Shards can be exchanged with the Driftveil City Move Tutor to teach Pokémon moves. In Alola, 30 Red Shards can be exchanged with the old man who appears in the Festival Plaza castle post-game for a Bottle Cap. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, three Red Shards are one of the crafting ingredients required to craft a Star Piece. Red Shards made a cameo in Team Rocket's fantasy in The Grass Menagerie!. Ash found one of each shard in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style! during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for him and his classmates by Olivia.

Title: Blue Shard

The Blue Shard (Japanese: あおいかけら Blue Shard) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the Shards. In the Generation V games, the Blue Shard can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $200. In Hoenn, exchange one with the Treasure Hunter on Route 124 for a Water Stone. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, exchange ten with the shard collector on Route 212 for TM18 (Rain Dance). In Pokémon Platinum, exchange 2, 4, 6, or 8 with Move Tutors to teach Pokémon moves. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, exchange one with the Juggler in Violet City for a Chesto, Oran, and Wiki Berry. Exchange one with the Juggler in Fuchsia City for a Bluk, Kelpsy, and Cornn Berry. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, exchange 2, 4, 6, 8, or 10 with the Lentimas Town Move Tutor to teach Pokémon moves. In Alola, exchange 30 with the old man who appears in the Festival Plaza castle post-game for a Bottle Cap. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, three Blue Shards are one of the crafting ingredients required to craft a Star Piece. Ash found one of each shard in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style! during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for him and his classmates by Olivia.

Title: Yellow Shard

The Yellow Shard (Japanese: きいろいかけら Yellow Shard) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the Shards. In the Generation V games, the Yellow Shard can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $200. In Hoenn, exchange one with the Treasure Hunter on Route 124 for a Thunder Stone. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, exchange ten with the shard collector on Route 212 for TM37 (Sandstorm). In Pokémon Platinum, exchange 2, 4, 6, or 8 with Move Tutors to teach Pokémon moves. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, exchange one with the Juggler in Violet City for an Iapapa, Aspear, and Sitrus Berry. Exchange one with the Juggler in Fuchsia City for a Pinap, Grepa, and Nomel Berry. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, exchange 2, 4, 6, 8, or 10 with the Humilau City Move Tutor to teach Pokémon moves. In Alola, 30 Yellow Shards can be exchanged with the old man who appears in the Festival Plaza castle post-game for a Bottle Cap. Ash found one of each shard in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style! during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for him and his classmates by Olivia. The Yellow Shard is the only shard not obtainable in Pokémon Legends: Arceus.

Title: Green Shard

The Green Shard (Japanese: みどりのかけら Green Shard) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the Shards. In the Generation V games, the Green Shard can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $200. In Hoenn, exchange one with the Treasure Hunter on Route 124 for a Leaf Stone. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, exchange ten with the shard collector on Route 212 for TM07 (Hail). In Pokémon Platinum, exchange 2, 4, 6, or 8 with Move Tutors to teach Pokémon moves. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, exchange one with the Juggler in Violet City for an Aguav, Lum, and Rawst Berry. Exchange one with the Juggler in Fuchsia City for a Wepear, Hondew, and Durin Berry. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, exchange 6, 8, 10, or 12 with the Nacrene City Move Tutor to teach Pokémon moves. In Alola, exchange 30 with the old man who appears in the Festival Plaza castle post-game for a Bottle Cap. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, three Green Shards are one of the crafting ingredients required to craft a Star Piece. Green Shards appeared in The Relicanth Really Can, when Adam found them after they fell off the fins of a Relicanth. He mistook them for emeralds, until his wife, Evelyn, identified them as Green Shards. She stated that Green Shards were used in ancient times to make jewelry, but aren't worth as much in the present. After another treasure hunt, Adam found an entire chest filled with Green Shards. Ash found one of each shard in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style! during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for him and his classmates by Olivia.

Title: Super Repel

The Super Repel (Japanese: シルバースプレー Silver Spray) is a type of item introduced in Generation I. The Repel and Max Repel are alternate versions of this item. This item has the same effect as the Repel and Max Repel for the duration of 200 steps. When used from the Bag in the overworld, it prevents certain wild Pokémon from appearing: In Generation I, and from Generation VI onwards, this applies to wild Pokémon with a lower level than the first member of the party. From Generation II to V, this applies to wild Pokémon with a lower level than the first non-fainted member of the party. In Generation I only, it is still possible to use this item even if a previously used Repel, Super Repel, or Max Repel is still in effect, which overrides the effect of the previous item and wastes any remaining steps. From Generation II onwards, it is not possible to use this item while a previously used one is still in effect. Starting in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, if the player still has more of this item when the effect wears off, the game will automatically ask the player whether they want to use another one immediately. In Generation I only, the effect of this item is not included in the saved game. When the player continues a saved game, any previous uses of this item are ignored. From Generation II onwards, the number of remaining steps is saved in the game data. If the player is walking automatically as part of an in-game event or as a result of stepping on a floor tile, no steps are counted. The player character changing direction counts as an additional step, reducing the duration of this item. For instance, if the player character walks 5 steps south and then 5 steps west, this counts as 11 steps. Similarly, changing direction without walking (such as by trying to walk into a wall while changing direction) also counts as a step. No step is counted when the player uses Surf from the party menu (to go from land to water, or from water to land) If the player walks directly from water to land, that counts as a step. No step is counted when the player goes through any game warp point (including a door, a cave entrance, stairs, hole on the ground, or teleport tile). No step is counted when the player goes from an area to the other (as evidenced by the color palette and background music changing). For instance, no step is counted at the exact moment when the player leaves Viridian City and enters Route 2. No step is counted when the player goes if the player turns around while standing on a stairs tile or teleport tile. If the player is currently indoors, walking on or walking away from the two-tile horizontal carpet adjacent to the exit of the current house, building, or elevator do not count as steps. In the case of the Pokémon Tower, no carpet is visible but the two exit tiles work the same way. Walking inside or walking away from the healing zone on the fifth floor of the Pokémon Tower do not count as steps. From Generation II onwards, changing directions does not count as a step. Walking through stairs that occupy a floor tile (such as in a Pokémon Center). Walking through stairs that occupy a wall tile (such as in the player's house). This item does not affect encounters from fishing, Sweet Scent, or in-game event Pokémon seen in the overworld. In Pokémon Emerald, this item does not prevent wild Pokémon from appearing in the Battle Pike and Battle Pyramid. In Pokémon White, this item does not prevent wild Pokémon from appearing in the White Forest. In Pokémon X and Y, this item does not prevent Pokémon from appearing in dirt mounds on Route 13. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, even though this item prevents hidden encounters, it does not prevent symbol encounters or wanderers. From Generation VII onwards, the Super Repel costs $3.5 per step. Comparatively, the Max Repel costs $3.6 per step, and the standard Repel costs $4 per step. Prior to Generation VII, the Super Repel costs $2.5 per step. Comparatively, the Max Repel costs $2.8 per step, and the standard Repel costs $3.5 per step.

Title: Max Repel

The Max Repel (Japanese: ゴールドスプレー Gold Spray) is a type of item introduced in Generation I. The Repel and Super Repel are weaker versions of this item. In Pokémon Black, the Max Repel can be purchased in the Black City marketplace for $5500. At Join Avenue's Market, Max Repel can be bought in dozens at $6300 each, which equates to $525 per Max Repel. This item has the same effect as the Repel and Super Repel for the duration of 250 steps. When used from the Bag in the overworld, it prevents certain wild Pokémon from appearing: In Generation I, and from Generation VI onwards, this applies to wild Pokémon with a lower level than the first member of the party. From Generation II to V, this applies to wild Pokémon with a lower level than the first non-fainted member of the party. In Generation I only, it is still possible to use this item even if a previously used Repel, Super Repel, or Max Repel is still in effect, which overrides the effect of the previous item and wastes any remaining steps. From Generation II onwards, it is not possible to use this item while a previously used one is still in effect. Starting in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, if the player still has more of this item when the effect wears off, the game will automatically ask the player whether they want to use another one immediately. In Generation I only, the effect of this item is not included in the saved game. When the player continues a saved game, any previous uses of this item are ignored. From Generation II onwards, the number of remaining steps is saved in the game data. If the player is walking automatically as part of an in-game event or as a result of stepping on a floor tile, no steps are counted. The player character changing direction counts as an additional step, reducing the duration of this item. For instance, if the player character walks 5 steps south and then 5 steps west, this counts as 11 steps. Similarly, changing direction without walking (such as by trying to walk into a wall while changing direction) also counts as a step. No step is counted when the player uses Surf from the party menu (to go from land to water, or from water to land) If the player walks directly from water to land, that counts as a step. No step is counted when the player goes through any game warp point (including a door, a cave entrance, stairs, hole on the ground, or teleport tile). No step is counted when the player goes from an area to the other (as evidenced by the color palette and background music changing). For instance, no step is counted at the exact moment when the player leaves Viridian City and enters Route 2. No step is counted when the player goes if the player turns around while standing on a stairs tile or teleport tile. If the player is currently indoors, walking on or walking away from the two-tile horizontal carpet adjacent to the exit of the current house, building, or elevator do not count as steps. In the case of the Pokémon Tower, no carpet is visible but the two exit tiles work the same way. Walking inside or walking away from the healing zone on the fifth floor of the Pokémon Tower do not count as steps. From Generation II onwards, changing directions does not count as a step. Walking through stairs that occupy a floor tile (such as in a Pokémon Center). Walking through stairs that occupy a wall tile (such as in the player's house). This item does not affect encounters from fishing, Sweet Scent, or in-game event Pokémon seen in the overworld. In Pokémon Emerald, this item does not prevent wild Pokémon from appearing in the Battle Pike and Battle Pyramid. In Pokémon White, this item does not prevent wild Pokémon from appearing in the White Forest. In Pokémon X and Y, this item does not prevent Pokémon from appearing in dirt mounds on Route 13. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, even though this item prevents hidden encounters, it does not prevent symbol encounters or wanderers. A Max Repel appeared in Climbing the Tower of Success! as one of the search items for the Wishing Bell Festival scavenger hunt. In Lulled to La-La Land!, Lillie mentioned having used Max Repels to keep wild Pokémon away from herself while camping in a forest with Ash and the rest of her classmates. This inadvertently ended up protecting her from a wild Morelull that attacked everybody else and drained their energy. The Max Repel is featured in the artwork for the Contents of Trainer's bag merchandise line that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Escape Rope

The Escape Rope (Japanese: あなぬけのヒモ Hole-Escape Rope) is a type of item introduced in Generation I. It is used to escape from a cave or a dungeon. In most games, it is a consumable item; in Pokémon Sword and Shield, it is a Key Item. When used in the overworld while the player is in a cave or dungeon, the player is warped to the last Pokémon Center they healed at (or the player's house if they have never healed at a Pokémon Center). Due to an oversight in Pokémon Red and Blue, this can be used to escape from from the Sea Cottage or the Vermilion City Pokémon Fan Club. This was fixed in Pokémon Yellow. When used in the overworld while the player is in a cave or dungeon, the player is warped to the entrance through which the player entered the cave or dungeon. It cannot be used in Pokémon Colosseum and XD: Gale of Darkness. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, if the player uses the Escape Rope to exit from Inside of Truck at the start of the game before the truck has left (even though this item is not legitimately available at this point), the player will warp to the front of the southwestern house in Petalburg City and the truck will remain in Littleroot Town. If the player exits any building in this town while the truck is still there, a glitched version of the animation where the player leaves the truck will start. The Escape Rope cannot be used to escape from Turnback Cave. Spear Pillar, the Distortion World, and the Hall of Origin are not treated as caves. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Escape Rope is now an infinite-use Key Item. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it is a consumable item again. In Anville Town, on weekends the player can give a man two Escape Ropes in exchange for a Revive. In Pokémon Crystal and HeartGold and SoulSilver, in the Ruins of Alph, the player requires an Escape Rope to open the hidden room in the northeastern chamber. In Pokémon Crystal, the item is consumed and the player escapes as normal. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the item is not consumed and the player does not move. In Hurray for Heracross, Bugsy discovered a puzzle in the Ruins of Alph that read "ESCAPE", prompting him to use an Escape Rope. As a result, the wall collapsed, revealing Suicune. The Escape Rope was introduced as a Pokémon Tool Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) in the Plasma Storm expansion. It was reprinted throughout the XY, Sun & Moon, and Sword & Shield Series. A gold etched Secret print of the card was included in the Burning Shadows expansion (To Have Seen the Battle Rainbow in Japan). The card forces each player to switch their Active Pokémon with one of their Benched Pokémon, with the opponent switching first. The Escape Rope has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, it is possible to use an Escape Rope to escape from the Saffron Gym. This is the only Gym in these games where this is possible. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, this item is labeled as a key item, despite being completely unused.

Title: Repel

The Repel (Japanese: むしよけスプレー Repellent Spray) is a type of item introduced in Generation I. The Super Repel and Max Repel are stronger versions of this item. This item has the same effect as the Super Repel and Max Repel for the duration of 100 steps. When used from the Bag in the overworld, it prevents certain wild Pokémon from appearing: In Generation I, and from Generation VI onwards, this applies to wild Pokémon with a lower level than the first member of the party. From Generation II to V, this applies to wild Pokémon with a lower level than the first non-fainted member of the party. In Generation I only, it is still possible to use this item even if a previously used Repel, Super Repel, or Max Repel is still in effect, which overrides the effect of the previous item and wastes any remaining steps. From Generation II onwards, it is not possible to use this item while a previously used one is still in effect. Starting in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, if the player still has more of this item when the effect wears off, the game will automatically ask the player whether they want to use another one immediately. In Generation I only, the effect of this item is not included in the saved game. When the player continues a saved game, any previous uses of this item are ignored. From Generation II onwards, the number of remaining steps is saved in the game data. If the player is walking automatically as part of an in-game event or as a result of stepping on a floor tile, no steps are counted. The player character changing direction counts as an additional step, reducing the duration of this item. For instance, if the player character walks 5 steps south and then 5 steps west, this counts as 11 steps. Similarly, changing direction without walking (such as by trying to walk into a wall while changing direction) also counts as a step. No step is counted when the player uses Surf from the party menu (to go from land to water, or from water to land) If the player walks directly from water to land, that counts as a step. No step is counted when the player goes through any game warp point (including a door, a cave entrance, stairs, hole on the ground, or teleport tile). No step is counted when the player goes from an area to the other (as evidenced by the color palette and background music changing). For instance, no step is counted at the exact moment when the player leaves Viridian City and enters Route 2. No step is counted when the player turns around while standing on a stairs tile or teleport tile. If the player is currently indoors, walking on or walking away from the two-tile horizontal carpet adjacent to the exit of the current house, building, or elevator do not count as steps. In the case of the Pokémon Tower, no carpet is visible but the two exit tiles work the same way. Walking inside or walking away from the healing zone on the fifth floor of the Pokémon Tower do not count as steps. From Generation II onwards, changing directions does not count as a step. Walking through stairs that occupy a floor tile (such as in a Pokémon Center). Walking through stairs that occupy a wall tile (such as in the player's house). This item does not affect encounters from fishing, Sweet Scent, or in-game event Pokémon seen in the overworld. In Pokémon Emerald, this item does not prevent wild Pokémon from appearing in the Battle Pike and Battle Pyramid. In Pokémon White, this item does not prevent wild Pokémon from appearing in the White Forest. In Pokémon X and Y, this item does not prevent Pokémon from appearing in dirt mounds on Route 13. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, even though this item prevents hidden encounters, it does not prevent symbol encounters or wanderers. In Cutting the Ties that Bind!, Scott used a Repel to keep a swarm of wild Beedrill from attacking him, Brock, May, and Max. A Bug Catcher was seen using a Repel before entering a forest full of Bug Pokémon in Wake Up—You're Snorlax!. A Repel made a brief appearance as one of the items in Red's Bag in A Hollow Victreebel. Repel was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sun & Moon Series (the Japanese Sun & Moon Era) in the Sun & Moon expansion. It was also printed in the Japanese Sun & Moon Starter Set. This Trainer card forces the player's opponent to switch one of their Active Pokémon with one of their Benched Pokémon. The Repel has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sun Stone

The Sun Stone (Japanese: たいようのいし Sun Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation II. In the Generation V games, the Sun Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Sun Stone. Causes Petilil to evolve into Lilligant (outside of Hisui) or Hisuian Lilligant (in Hisui) The Sun Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Sun Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Red Rescue Team, Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Petilil and Cottonee evolve into Lilligant and Whimsicott, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Sun Stone. A Sun Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. The Sun Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon GO: Gloom requires 100 Oddish Candy and a Sun Stone to evolve into Bellossom. Sunkern requires 50 Sunkern Candy and a Sun Stone to evolve into Sunflora. Cottonee requires 50 Cottonee Candy and a Sun Stone to evolve into Whimsicott. Petilil requires 50 Petilil Candy and a Sun Stone to evolve into Lilligant. Helioptile requires 50 Helioptile Candy and a Sun Stone to evolve into Heliolisk The Sun Stone was added to Pokémon GO on February 16, 2017. Starting at level 10, Sun Stones can be rarely obtained from: While normally rare, from March 21, 2017 onward, the player is guaranteed to find an Evolution item when obtaining the bonus for spinning a Photo Disc for the seventh day in a row. Additionally, the player receives a Sun Stone when completing part 2 of the Special Research "A Ripple in Time". In Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the player gets three Sun Stone symbols in order to evolve a Gloom into Bellossom. Ash obtained a Sun Stone as a prize for winning the Bug-Catching Contest in The Bug Stops Here. He later used it to evolve a wild Sunkern in Moving Pictures. A Sun Stone, along with a Leaf Stone, appeared in Whichever Way the Wind Blows during an explanation of the branch in Gloom's evolutionary line. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Sun Stone along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. In addition, a Trainer used a Sun Stone purchased from the shop to evolve his Helioptile into Heliolisk. Clemont then revealed he had also once used a Sun Stone to evolve his own Helioptile into Heliolisk. In The Last Battle VI, Gold's Sunkern, Sunbo, evolved into a Sunflora due to the harsh sunlight made by her usage of Sunny Day reflecting off the rocks near Ilex Forest and replicating the Sun Stone's effects. In Ring Ring Goes Beldum, Steven found a Sun Stone while he and Ruby escaped from a group of wild Mawile in Granite Cave. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring the Sun Stone. The Sun Stone has been featured along with the other Evolution stones in the merchandise collection of the same name. A Sun Stone is also seen on the illustration for the "Old Amber" pack of card sleeves. The Sun Stone shares its name with an actual gemstone.

Title: Moon Stone

The Moon Stone (Japanese: つきのいし Moon Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation I. In the Generation V games, the Moon Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Moon Stone. Starting in Generation IV, Pokémon that evolve using this stone have an increased catch rate when attempting to catch them with the Moon Ball. This also applies to their evolutionary relatives in Generation IV. The Moon Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team; Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky; and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Moon Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Red Rescue Team, Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Jigglypuff and Munna evolve into Wigglytuff and Musharna, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Moon Stone. A Moon Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR! The Moon Stone card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the player gets three Moon Stone symbols in order to evolve any of the Pokémon below. The Moon Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Clefairy requires 80 Clefairy Candy and a Moon Stone to evolve into Clefable. Jigglypuff requires 80 Jigglypuff Candy and a Moon Stone to evolve into Wigglytuff. Munna requires 80 Munna Candy and a Moon Stone to evolve into Musharna. In Clefairy and the Moon Stone, a giant Moon Stone appeared deep within Mt. Moon, being worshipped by a group of Clefairy who lived there. It was soon stolen by Team Rocket, and ultimately ended up being blown up; the shards from the shattered giant Moon Stone rained down on the Clefairy and caused some of them to evolve into Clefable. In this episode, the characters speculated that the Moon Stone was how various Pokémon—Clefairy in particular—arrived in the Pokémon world. A flashback in Delcatty Got Your Tongue revealed that Dr. Abby decided to study to become a Pokémon Doctor shortly after winning the title of Top Coordinator. Dr. Moss took her under his wing and taught her how to treat Pokémon, and in recognition of her efforts gave her a Moon Stone, which Abby used to evolve her Skitty, nicknamed Johnny, into Delcatty. Another giant Moon Stone was seen at Mt. Moon in A Real Cleffa-Hanger. In Mystery on a Deserted Island!, the Moon Stone was featured along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. A Moon Stone appeared in a fantasy in A Dream Encounter!, where it was revealed that Lusamine had used one to evolve her Clefairy into Clefable. Multiple Moon Stones appeared in Infinite Possibilities!, where a group of Clefairy used them in an Evolution ritual. In Clefairy Tale, Ash, Professor Oak, and Bill witnessed a Clefairy Evolution ceremony involving a large Moon Stone. The focus of the chapter To Evolve or Not to Evolve, That Is the Question! was Evolution stones, including the Moon Stone. A Moon Stone was first mentioned by Professor Oak in Gyarados Splashes In! as a rock with a crescent moon-shaped indentation that boosts a Pokémon's power immensely. In the next chapter, Team Rocket searched for one in Mt. Moon. However, it was Red who eventually found it. In The Winged Legends, Red used his Moon Stone to evolve Green's Clefairy into a Clefable in order to fight Thu-Fi-Zer during the Silph Co. showdown with Team Rocket. In Guile from Mawile, Ruby's Skitty, Kiki, evolved into a Delcatty due to being exposed to one of Steven's Moon Stones. Another one of Steven's Moon Stones was seen in Ring Ring Goes Beldum. In Give It Your Best, Blastoise, during the battle against the Deoxys Duplicates, Green evolved her Jigglypuff, Jiggly, and her Nidorina, Nido, into Wigglytuff and Nidoqueen, respectively, using two Moon Stones. In Homecoming, it was revealed that Black's Munna, Musha, had evolved into a Musharna using a Moon Stone received from Caitlin. A Moon Stone appeared in Receive The Moon Stone!!, worn by Misty on a necklace. Red challenged her to a battle over it, but while his Clefairy succeeded in defeating her Blastoise, the Moon Stone was stolen by someone else in the meantime. The Moon Stone was released as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese Original Era with Expansion Sheet 1. The card was only ever released in Japanese and has never been reprinted. It allows the player to add 1 Colorless Evolution card from their deck to their hand. The following gallery is of cards holding, mentioning or featuring the Moon Stone. The Moon Stone has been featured along with the other Evolution stones in the merchandise collection of the same name. Through a glitch in the Generation I games, Pokémon that would normally require an Evolution stone to evolve can be evolved without it, provided that the Pokémon levels up in the battle and the player has sent out a specific Pokémon in the same battle. In the case of the Moon Stone, this Pokémon is Exeggutor. The Moon Stone stands out from the other stones in some ways until Generation IV. It is the only stone that's: been unable to be obtained an unlimited amount of times per game. The Moon Stone shares its name with an actual gemstone. In the Chuang Yi translation of Pokémon Pocket Monsters, the Moon Stone is called "Moon Rock". The description of the Moon Stone in the games describes it as black, but most depictions of the stone (including those in the games themselves) portray it as gray. The Poké Lid #033 in Sanuki shows a Clefairy holding a Moon Stone. A Moon Stone is one of the icons on the Veilstone Game Corner slot machines.

Title: Fire Stone

The Fire Stone (Japanese: ほのおのいし Flame Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation I. In the Generation V games, the Fire Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Fire Stone. Causes Hisuian Growlithe to evolve into Hisuian Arcanine The Fire Stone cannot be used to evolve the Partner Eevee or Eevee with the Gigantamax Factor into Flareon. The Fire Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Fire Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Red Rescue Team, Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Eevee and Pansear evolve into Flareon and Simisear, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Fire Stone. A Fire Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the player gets three Fire Stone symbols in order to evolve any of the Pokémon below. The Fire Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Vulpix requires 80 Vulpix Candy and a Fire Stone to evolve into Ninetales. Growlithe requires 80 Growlithe Candy and a Fire Stone to evolve into Arcanine. Eevee requires 80 Eevee Candy and a Fire Stone to evolve into Flareon. The Fire Stone debuted in The Battling Eevee Brothers as part of a collection held by the Eevee brothers. Two of the four Eevee brothers offered a Fire Stone and Thunder Stone to Brock and Ash to evolve their Vulpix and Pikachu, respectively, though both refused. A set of Fire Stones played an important role in The Stolen Stones!, when Ramona and Keegan were tasked with delivering them to a Fire-type Pokémon competition that planned to use them as prizes for the competitors. During the delivery, Team Rocket stole the stones, and Ash and his friends had to help retrieve them. In A Hole Lotta Trouble, after Steven sent Team Rocket blasting off from Granite Cave with his Aggron's Hyper Beam, his Aron unearthed a Fire Stone. In Last Call — First Round!, Ursula used a Fire Stone and a Water Stone during the Performance Stage of the Sinnoh Grand Festival to evolve her two Eevee, evolving them into a Flareon and Vaporeon, respectively. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Fire Stone along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. A Fire Stone was seen in To Train, or Not to Train!, when members of the Eevee Evolution Lab tried to get an Eevee to evolve, only for it to not work. In Out of Their Elements!, Harmony and Billy attempted to use a Fire Stone and a Thunder Stone, respectively, to evolve their Eevee partners. However, they accidentally dropped the stones onto the wrong Eevee, causing them to evolve into opposite forms than what they had intended. They attempted to correct the mistake with the spare stones they had, but the stones had no effect on the already-evolved Pokémon. At the end of the episode, they gave their spare stones to Chloe. The focus of the chapter To Evolve or Not to Evolve, That Is the Question! was Evolution stones, including the Fire Stone. In The Kindest Tentacruel, the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman told Yellow about a legend of an underwater dome at the bottom of Vermilion Harbor, housing a set of Evolution stones which, unlike normal stones, did not disappear after making a Pokémon evolve, allowing them to be used repeatedly. The cause of Red's Poliwhirl's Evolution had been one of these said stones, proving the legend to be true. Yellow was later led to the dome by a wild Tentacruel, finding a Leaf Stone in it, but the Fire, Thunder, and Water Stones were missing. Later, it was revealed that Giovanni had given them to Red so he could freely evolve and devolve his Eevee. In Triple Threat, Cilan, Chili, and Cress used a Leaf Stone, Fire Stone, and Water Stone to evolve their Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour into Simisage, Simisear, and Simipour, respectively, during their battle against the Shadow Triad. A Fire Stone appeared in Final Battle: Versus The Salon Maiden, where Enta received one from Rald. He used it on his Vulpix, evolving it into Ninetales. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring a Fire Stone in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Fire Stone has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. Through a glitch in the Generation I games, Pokémon that would normally require an Evolution stone to evolve can be evolved without it, provided that the Pokémon levels up in the battle and the player has sent out a specific Pokémon in the same battle. In the case of the Fire Stone, this Pokémon is Missingno. (index number 32). In Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee!, if the player tries to give their partner Eevee a Fire Stone, they will not accept it, and therefore, will not evolve. The same thing will happen if the player attempts to give them a Thunder Stone or a Water Stone.

Title: Thunder Stone

The Thunder Stone (Japanese: かみなりのいし Lightning Stone), formatted Thunderstone prior to Generation VI, is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation I. In the Generation V games, the Thunderstone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Thunder Stone. Causes Pikachu to evolve into Raichu (outside of Alola) or Alolan Raichu (in Alola) The Thunder Stone cannot be used to evolve Cosplay Pikachu, Pikachu in a cap, the Partner Pikachu, or Pikachu with the Gigantamax Factor into Raichu. Causes Magneton to evolve into Magnezone (Generation VIII onward) The Thunder Stone cannot be used to evolve the Partner Eevee or Eevee with the Gigantamax Factor into Jolteon. Causes Nosepass to evolve into Probopass (Generation VIII onward) The Thunder Stone cannot be used to evolve Nosepass into Probopass in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Causes Charjabug to evolve into Vikavolt (Generation VIII onward) The Thunderstone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Thunderstone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Red Rescue Team, Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Pikachu and Eevee evolve into Raichu and Jolteon, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Thunderstone. A Thunderstone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the player gets three Thunder Stone symbols in order to evolve any of the Pokémon below. The Thunder Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Pikachu requires 80 Pikachu Candy and a Thunder Stone to evolve into Raichu. Magneton requires 80 Magnemite Candy and a Thunder Stone to evolve into Magnezone. Eevee requires 80 Eevee Candy and a Thunder Stone to evolve into Jolteon. Charjabug requires 80 Grubbin Candy and a Thunder Stone to evolve into Vikavolt. The Thunder Stone debuted in Electric Shock Showdown, when Nurse Joy gave Ash a Thunder Stone so that he could evolve his Pikachu in order to defeat Lt. Surge's Raichu. Pikachu, however, refused the offer. In The Battling Eevee Brothers, the Thunder Stone appeared as part of a collection held by the Eevee brothers. Two of the Eevee brothers offered a Fire Stone and Thunder Stone to Brock and Ash to evolve their respective Vulpix and Pikachu, though both refused. An image of a Thunder Stone appeared in A Bite to Remember during Brock's explanation on how Evolution works. In Pika and Goliath!, Ash was revealed to have kept his Thunder Stone in case Pikachu ever wanted to evolve. When a similar scenario to the one in Vermilion City occured again, Pikachu still refused to use the stone. Seeing his determination to not evolve, Team Rocket stole the stone, planning to sell it. Ash had to find a Thunder Stone in a scavenger hunt as part of the Wishing Bell Festival contest in Climbing the Tower of Success!. He came across a young man in possession of one who tried to toss it to him from a long distance. The Thunder Stone nearly came in contact with Pikachu but he jumped out of the way just in time, leaving Ash to catch it. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Thunder Stone along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A Thunder Stone appeared in To Catch a Pokémon Smuggler! as a part of Clemont's explanation of how Evolution works, Pikachu's Evolution into Raichu working as an example of Evolution using an Evolution stone. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. Multiple Thunder Stones appeared in Gotta Catch a What?!, where multiple wild Pikachu were digging them up in a valley in order to evolve. One was found by Goh's newly caught Pikachu, who gave it to her Trainer. Later, Goh used the Stone to evolve his Pikachu into Raichu in order to help defeat Team Rocket. A Thunder Stone was seen in To Train, or Not to Train!, when members of the Eevee Evolution Lab tried to get an Eevee to evolve, only for it to not work. In Out of Their Elements!, Harmony and Billy attempted to use a Fire Stone and a Thunder Stone, respectively, to evolve their Eevee partners. However, they accidentally dropped the stones onto the wrong Eevee, causing them to evolve into opposite forms than what they had intended. They attempted to correct the mistake with the spare stones they had, but the stones had no effect on the already-evolved Pokémon. At the end of the episode, they gave their spare stones to Chloe. The focus of the chapter To Evolve or Not to Evolve, That Is the Question! was Evolution stones, including the Thunder Stone. In The Kindest Tentacruel, the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman told Yellow about a legend of an underwater dome at the bottom of Vermilion Harbor, housing a set of Evolution stones which, unlike normal stones, did not disappear after making a Pokémon evolve, allowing them to be used repeatedly. The cause of Red's Poliwhirl's Evolution had been one of these said stones, proving the legend to be true. Yellow was later led to the dome by a wild Tentacruel, finding a Leaf Stone in it, but the Fire, Thunder, and Water Stones were missing. Later, it was revealed that Giovanni had given them to Red so he could freely evolve and devolve his Eevee. In Indigo Plateau, Satoshi's Pikachu used a Thunder Stone to evolve itself into a Raichu before Satoshi left to challenge the Elite Four. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring a Thunder Stone in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Thunder Stone has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. Through a glitch in the Generation I games, Pokémon that would normally require an Evolution stone to evolve can be evolved without it, provided that the Pokémon levels up in the battle and the player has sent out a specific Pokémon in the same battle. In the case of the Thunderstone, this Pokémon is Growlithe. In Pokémon Yellow, if the player attempts to use a Thunder Stone on their Pikachu, it'll refuse. Talking to Pikachu afterwards will cause it to shake its head. Traded Pikachu are unaffected by this. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, if the player tries to give their Partner Pokémon a Thunder Stone, they will not accept it, and therefore, will not evolve. In Eevee's case, the same thing will happen if the player attempts to give them a Fire Stone or a Water Stone.

Title: Water Stone

The Water Stone (Japanese: みずのいし Water Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation I. In the Generation V games, the Water Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Water Stone. The Water Stone cannot be used to evolve the Partner Eevee or Eevee with the Gigantamax Factor into Vaporeon. In Pokémon Crystal and HeartGold and SoulSilver, the player is required to have a Water Stone to open the hidden room in the southwestern chamber of the Ruins of Alph. In Pokémon Crystal, the player simply needs to have it in their Bag. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, they need to use it while facing the wall. The Water Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Water Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Red Rescue Team, Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Eevee and Panpour evolve into Vaporeon and Simipour, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Water Stone. A Water Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the player gets three Water Stone symbols in order to evolve any of the Pokémon below. The Water Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Eevee requires 80 Eevee Candy and a Water Stone to evolve into Vaporeon. The Water Stone debuted in The Battling Eevee Brothers as part of a collection held by the Eevee brothers. In the party they hosted, a Trainer used a Water Stone to evolve his Poliwhirl into a Poliwrath. In Go Go Ludicolo!, a Water Stone appeared in a fantasy. In Once in a Mawile, a Water Stone belonging to Samantha appeared; Brock's Lombre used it to evolve into Ludicolo. This is the first time that a main character's Pokémon evolved via an Evolution stone onscreen. Professor Oak gave a Water Stone to a wild Lombre in A Faux Oak Finish! so that it could evolve into Ludicolo. In Last Call — First Round!, Ursula used a Water Stone and a Fire Stone during the Performance Stage of the Sinnoh Grand Festival to evolve her two Eevee, evolving them into a Vaporeon and Flareon, respectively. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Water Stone along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. In On Land, In the Sea, and to the Future!, Chloe received a Water Stone from Kiley. She asked her Eevee if she wanted to use it, but she decided not to evolve yet. Another Water Stone appeared in a flashback in the same episode, used by Kiley to evolve his own Eevee into Vaporeon. The focus of the chapter To Evolve or Not to Evolve, That Is the Question! was Evolution stones. Misty hoped to buy a Water Stone for her Poliwhirl in Stone Town, a town on Dream Island where all the Evolution stones in the Pokémon world come from. However, she couldn't afford one, remarking that an inexpensive one might make the Evolution go bad. Misty was later given a Water Stone by Mikey, who was being pressured to join the "Knights of the E Stone", a club which requires members to own a Pokémon evolved by an Evolution stone. In Buzz Off, Electabuzz!, Red's Poliwhirl was able to evolve into a Poliwrath with the help of a Water Stone when they were thrown into the water in Vermilion Harbor, although the cause of his Evolution wasn't revealed until the Yellow arc. In The Kindest Tentacruel, the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman told Yellow about a legend of an underwater dome at the bottom of Vermilion Harbor, housing a set of Evolution stones which, unlike normal stones, did not disappear after making a Pokémon evolve, allowing them to be used repeatedly. The cause of Red's Poliwhirl's Evolution had been one of these said stones, proving the legend to be true. Yellow was later led to the dome by a wild Tentacruel, finding a Leaf Stone in it, but the Fire, Thunder, and Water Stones were missing. Later, it was revealed that Giovanni had given them to Red so he could freely evolve and devolve his Eevee. In Mowing Down Ludicolo, Shelly used a Water Stone to evolve her Lombre into a Ludicolo while battling against Sapphire's Pokémon. In Triple Threat, Cilan, Chili, and Cress used a Leaf Stone, Fire Stone, and Water Stone to evolve their Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour into Simisage, Simisear, and Simipour, respectively, during their battle against the Shadow Triad. In PASV25, Violet gave Arven a Water Stone that he had received from Kofu, which Arven used to evolve his Shellder into Cloyster to help him fight against the two Quaking Earth Titans: Great Tusk and Iron Treads. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring a Water Stone in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Water Stone has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. Through a glitch in the Generation I games, Pokémon that would normally require an Evolution stone to evolve can be evolved without it, provided that the Pokémon levels up in the battle and the player has sent out a specific Pokémon in the same battle. In the case of the Water Stone, this Pokémon is Onix. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee!, if the player tries to give their partner Eevee a Water Stone, they will not accept it, and therefore, will not evolve. The same thing will happen if the player attempts to give them a Fire Stone or a Thunder Stone.

Title: Leaf Stone

The Leaf Stone (Japanese: リーフのいし Leaf Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation I. In the Pokémon Trivia Challenge minigame from Pokémon Masters Arena, this is spelled as leafstone. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the Leaf Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Leaf Stone. Causes Hisuian Voltorb to evolve into Hisuian Electrode Causes Exeggcute to evolve into Exeggutor (outside of Alola) or Alolan Exeggutor (in Alola) Causes Eevee to evolve into Leafeon (Generation VIII onward) The Leaf Stone cannot be used to evolve Eevee with the Gigantamax Factor into Leafeon. The Leaf Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Leaf Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Red Rescue Team, Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Pansage evolve into Simisage if its link is improved while its Warrior is equipped with a Leaf Stone. A Leaf Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the player gets three Leaf Stone symbols in order to evolve any of the Pokémon below. The Leaf Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Weepinbell requires 80 Bellsprout Candy and a Leaf Stone to evolve into Victreebel. Eevee requires 80 Eevee Candy and a Leaf Stone to evolve into Leafeon. A fake Leaf Stone, made by Team Rocket, appeared in Make Room for Gloom, where the discovery of its nature as a fake was central to the episode. A real Leaf Stone first appeared at the very end of Pikachu's Rescue Adventure. With it, the Exeggcute that had been following Misty's Togepi evolved into an Exeggutor. In The Grass Route, a set of Leaf Stones was offered as the prize for winning the Grass Tournament. Although Team Rocket tried to steal the stones, they were eventually won by Ephraim. He planned on using them to evolve his parents' Pokémon. Both a Leaf Stone and a Sun Stone appeared in Whichever Way the Wind Blows during an explanation of the branch in Gloom's evolutionary line. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Leaf Stone along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. In That New Old Gang of Mine!, Professor Cerise's Yamper gave Goh a Leaf Stone he had found. Goh immediately used the stone to evolve his Exeggcute into Exeggutor. The focus of the chapter To Evolve or Not to Evolve, That Is the Question! was Evolution stones, including the Leaf Stone. In The Kindest Tentacruel, the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman told Yellow about a legend of an underwater dome at the bottom of Vermilion Harbor, housing a set of Evolution stones which, unlike normal stones, did not disappear after making a Pokémon evolve, allowing them to be used repeatedly. The cause of Red's Poliwhirl's Evolution had been one of these said stones, proving the legend to be true. Yellow was later led to the dome by a wild Tentacruel, finding a Leaf Stone in it, but the Fire, Thunder, and Water Stones were missing. Later, it was revealed that Giovanni had given them to Red so he could freely evolve and devolve his Eevee. In Ring Ring Goes Beldum, a Leaf Stone was seen amongst the stones collected by Steven. In Triple Threat, Cilan, Chili, and Cress used a Leaf Stone, Fire Stone, and Water Stone to evolve their Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour into Simisage, Simisear, and Simipour, respectively, during their battle against the Shadow Triad. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring a Leaf Stone in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Leaf Stone has been featured in the Evolution Stones collection as a replica, as an embroidery patch and on masking tape. The Leaf Stone is the only Evolution stone that cannot be sold to the ore maniac in Pokémon Black and White. This was corrected in Black 2 and White 2.

Title: Tiny Mushroom

The Tiny Mushroom (Japanese: ちいさなキノコ Small Mushroom), formatted TinyMushroom prior to Generation VI, is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, two of these can be exchanged for a Move Reminder's service. The Big Mushroom is a larger and more valuable version of this item. In the Generation V games, the TinyMushroom can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Tiny Mushroom can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $2,000. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, two TinyMushrooms can be given to the Move Reminder on Two Island to relearn one move for one Pokémon. A Tiny Mushroom is an ingredient that can be used in cooking to attract wild Pokémon in Pokémon Quest. Tiny Mushroom is a possible ingredient that can be obtained by completing expeditions. It can also be obtained randomly by recycling Power Stones. In Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, Mallow found multiple Tiny Mushrooms during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for Ash and his classmates by Olivia. In Trade, Borrow, and Steal!, Kricketina Kylie used Tiny Mushroom powder as one of the ingredients for her "Kricketina Treats" mixture, made in an attempt to lure in a Pinsir for her to catch. Tiny Mushrooms are seen in the artwork of the Dedenne card from the Darkness Ablaze expansion.

Title: Big Mushroom

The Big Mushroom (Japanese: おおきなキノコ Big Mushroom) is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. It is a larger and more valuable version of the Tiny Mushroom. In the Generation V games, the Big Mushroom can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $5000. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Big Mushroom can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $10,000. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, a Big Mushroom can be given to the Move Reminder on Two Island to relearn one move for one Pokémon. In Defending the Homeland!, Clemont mentioned having used Big Mushrooms as a part of the new food he had just made for the group. Big Mushrooms first appeared in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!. Mallow found them during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for Ash and his classmates by Olivia. In A Recipe for Success!, Mallow got some dried-up Big Mushrooms from Oranguru to be used at Aina's Kitchen. A Big Mushroom appeared in A Week to Go and Old Wounds, where Shoko gave it to one of her Patrat to hold while demonstrating Black her Marvelous Bridge Patrat Show. A Big Mushroom is seen in the artwork of the Dedenne card from the Darkness Ablaze expansion.

Title: Pearl

For the Generation IV game, see Pokémon Diamond and Pearl Versions. For the Generation VIII game, see Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. For the animated series based on the Generation IV games, see Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl. For the Pokémon Adventures manga chapter, see Diamond & Pearl arc. For the sequel to Pokémon Pocket Monsters and Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire, by Kosaku Anakubo, see Pocket Monsters DP. For the manga by Shigekatsu Ihara, see Pokémon Diamond and Pearl Adventure!. For the manga by Sakai Takayuki, see Pocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl. For the rival of Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, see Barry (game). For his counterpart in the Pokémon Adventures manga, see Pearl (Adventures). For his counterpart in the Pocket Monsters DP manga, see Kazuki (Pocket Monsters DP). For his counterpart in the Pokémon Diamond and Pearl Adventure!, see Jun (DPA). For his counterpart in Pokémon the Series, see Barry (anime). For the valuable items in the Pokémon games, see Pearl (item), Big Pearl, and Pearl String. For the area in Pokémon Rumble World, see Pearl Marsh. For the type of figure in the Pokémon Trading Figure Game, see Pearl figure.

Title: Big Pearl

The Big Pearl (Japanese: おおきなしんじゅ Big Pearl) is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. It is a bigger and more valuable version of the Pearl. In the Generation V games, the Big Pearl can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $7500. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Big Pearl can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $12,000. The Big Pearl serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. In Pokémon Masters EX, a Big Pearl can be exchanged for 3,000 coins at the shop. A Big Pearl appeared in Crossing Crobat, where it was retrieved by Janine as a part of a test to check the security of the Goldenrod Museum. The Big Pearl has been featured on an illustration for the Pokémon Diving merchandise line that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Stardust

If you were looking for the currency in Pokémon GO, see Stardust (GO). Stardust (Japanese: ほしのすな Star Sand) is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. In the Generation V games, the Stardust can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $2000. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Stardust can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $4,000. Outside of Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Stardust serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Stardust is one of the crafting materials for Star Pieces.

Title: Star Piece

The Star Piece (Japanese: ほしのかけら Star Piece) is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. In the Generation V games, the Star Piece can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $9800. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Star Piece can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $14,000. In Pokémon Platinum, it can be exchanged with Mr. Fuego in Fuego Ironworks for one of each color of Shard. In Unova, it can be exchanged with a man in Anville Town for a PP Up (only on Saturday and Sunday). Three Star Pieces and an additional item can be inserted into the Cram-o-matic to produce a Comet Shard. Using a Star Piece increases the amount of Stardust the player earns by 50% for the next 30 minutes. Star Pieces can be obtained by purchasing special boxes that are available in the in-game shop during special events. Additionally, the player receives a Star Piece when completing part 3 of the Special Research "A Mythical Discovery", part 5 of the Special Research "A Ripple in Time", and part 8 of the Special Research "Let's GO, Meltan". In Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, Sophocles found a Star Piece during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for Ash and his classmates by Olivia. In the dub, it was incorrectly referred to as a Comet Shard. In Hazel VS Almond!, Almond won a Star Piece in a contest held by Grandpa, giving it to Hazel. Star Piece was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English e-Card Series (the Japanese e-Card Era) in the Skyridge expansion. At any time between turns, if the Pokémon this card is attached to is Benched and has 2 or more damage counters on it, the player may place the appropriate Evolution card from their deck on top of that Pokémon. This counts as evolving that Pokémon. Meloetta is programmed to always hold a Star Piece when encountered in the wild in Pokémon Black and White. However, Meloetta cannot be found in the wild in these games.

Title: Nugget

The Nugget (Japanese: きんのたま Gold Orb) is a valuable item introduced in Generation I. The Big Nugget is a larger and more valuable version of this Item. In the Generation V games, the Nugget can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $10000. The Nugget serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. Three Nuggets and an additional item can be inserted into the Cram-o-matic to produce a Big Nugget. Nuggets were introduced as the exchange currency in the solo event Pasio Gold Rush. Players could earn Nuggets as rewards from battles in this event, which could be exchanged in the shop for items. Like most other event items, any Nuggets that have not been exchanged in the shop at the end of the event period were automatically exchanged for coins. However, Nuggets are exchanged for coins at a rate 100 times higher than other event items, at 1,000 coins each. Nuggets returned as the exchange currency for the special event Rolling in Gold, though they could only be earned in the ranked damage event Aim for the Top. Here, players earned Nuggets as rewards for reaching total score milestones across the three Super Sparring battles. A Nugget appeared in Why Not Give Me a Z-Ring Sometime?, where a man was seen polishing it, only to have it stolen by an item-snatching Gengar nicknamed "the Greedy Rapooh". In The Discovery, a Nugget was held by a man overseeing the Nugget Bridge as he watched Green effortlessly defeat all the Trainers on the bridge. Nugget was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Rebellion Crash and the English Rebel Clash expansions, with artwork by sadaji. It allows the player to draw three cards if the card was drawn at the start of the turn. Real-life Nugget replicas that could be used as paperweights have been sold at the timely limited Pokémon Let's Go! Pikachu & Eevee Cafe in November 2019 in limited quantities. 10 of these replicas were also given out as prizes for retweeting Twitter account @poke_times announcements about the event. The man who gives the player a Nugget on Route 2 in Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver is implied to be the same man who digs the Three Isle Path in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, as he gives two Nuggets to the player and mentions his plans to buy a house in mainland Kanto. This same man later reappears Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon in the Ula'ula Ferry Terminal, giving the player a Nugget and mentioning his background as a gold miner in the Sevii Islands. Men handing out Nuggets are also met on Route 229 in Sinnoh, in Chargestone Cave in Unova, and on Mauville City's third floor in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, though their connections to the aforementioned man, if any, are unknown. This running gag is also acknowledged in the Pasio Gold Rush solo event in Pokémon Masters EX, where several characters recall their run-ins with men handing out Nuggets, and postulate if some of them might've been the same person. The Japanese name for the item—きんのたま (kin no tama)—literally meaning "golden ball", can also be a slang term for testicles. This lends itself to some dirty jokes regarding the item throughout the games, most notably, the aforementioned running gag of a man handing out Nuggets (sometimes specifically two of them) to the player.

Title: Heart Scale

The Heart Scale (Japanese: ハートのウロコ Heart Scale) is a type of item introduced in Generation III. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, Generations IV to VII, and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it can be given to a Move Reminder to teach one move to one Pokémon. In Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, after using 10 Heart Scales total, the cost is permanently removed and the Move Reminder will continue to teach Pokémon moves for free. Heart Scales first appeared in a fantasy in Partner Promises!, when Mallow mentioned how the jewelry shop "Alola Sunrise" makes its jewelry from Heart Scales and Corsola branches. A Heart Scale made its first proper appearance in the Poké Problem extra scene of SM120, where Lana showed one to her classmates, jokingly claiming that it was a Kyogre scale. A Heart Scale appeared in A Recipe for Success!, where Mallow obtained one from a group of Fearow that had come to visit Oranguru's place. A Heart Scale appeared in Getting to the Heart of it All! as one of the heart-shaped objects stolen by a Banette. The Heart Scale has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. In Alola, they can be obtained at the Vast Poni Canyon trial site, implying they can also be the shed scales of the Jangmo-o evolutionary line. This is further supported by the fact that Jangmo-o has a heart-shaped scale on its head. In Pokémon X and Y, the Heart Scale is incorrectly sorted in the Bag as an Evolution stone when the Bag is sorted by type, instead of as an exchangeable item.

Title: Honey

If you were looking for the character from The Isle of Armor, see Honey (character). For the island in the Decolore Islands, see Honey Island. Honey (Japanese: あまいミツ Sweet Honey) is a type of item introduced in Generation IV. It can be used to attract wild Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Honey can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. When used in tall grass, caves, or while surfing, Honey triggers a wild Pokémon battle (like Sweet Scent as a field move). In Generation VI, this will trigger a Horde Encounter if they are present in the area; however, in Pokémon X and Y, it cannot cause a wild encounter if the overworld weather is not clear. In Sinnoh, Honey can be slathered on Honey Trees in order to attract wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl only, using Honey (or Sweet Scent) inside a shop or Poké Mart will cause the descriptive text of purchasable items to vanish until the player opens the "SELL" menu or leaves the shop. This is known as the Poké Mart text glitch. In Pokémon Sword and Shield and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Honey serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Honey can again be used to trigger a wild Pokémon battle in tall grass or caves, and can be slathered on Honey Trees in order to attract wild Pokémon. Though unavailable as an item in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Honey is mentioned as being a food produced by the Beedrill and Combee of Nectar Meadow, overseen by their queen and manager Vespiquen. Due to its nutritious properties, Budew heads to Nectar Meadow to obtain some Honey for her ailing mother, despite being warned that the Pokémon are usually on edge during their Honey-making season. Misunderstood as a Honey thief, Budew is rescued in time by the player and partner from the angry Beedrill and Combee. After they are defeated, Vespiquen intervenes and resolves the misunderstanding, and gifts Budew with some Honey. Honey is an ingredient that can be used in cooking to attract wild Pokémon in Pokémon Quest. Honey is a possible ingredient that can be obtained by completing expeditions. It can also be obtained randomly by recycling Power Stones. Honey can be used as an ingredient in cooking, with a base Strength of 101. It can be used to cook the following recipes: Honey can be gathered by the player's helper Pokémon. In Some Enchanted Sweetening!, Honey was slathered on a tree, attracting several wild Bug-type and Grass-type Pokémon as well Ash's Aipom and Cheryl's Burmy. The Honey appeared to have been slathered by Cheryl, who wanted to catch a male Burmy to help her find the Enchanted Honey. Cheryl later explained to the group that Enchanted Honey was Honey gathered by Combee in the Amber Castle, located deep in Eterna Forest, which is said to be hundreds of times sweeter than normal Honey. With the help of Ash and his friends, and with her Mothim leading the way, she located the hive of a Vespiquen and its many worker Combee. After helping defend the hive from Team Rocket, the Vespiquen shared some of its Enchanted Honey with Cheryl, Ash, his friends, and some of their Pokémon. All of them loved the Enchanted Honey, except for Brock's Croagunk, who looked disgusted by the sweet flavor. In A Trainer and Child Reunion!, Honey was used by Team Rocket in an attempt to catch Aaron's Vespiquen. It instead attracted a Munchlax. In Strategy Begins at Home!, Honey was planted on a tree by a young boy named Nathaniel, which attracted a Heracross. In a flashback in Historical Mystery Tour!, it was revealed that Barry used Honey to attract his Heracross. He repeated this same scenario in an illusionary adventure that a Clown sent him to. In Honey for Combee, as Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum ventured into Floaroma Meadow, Diamond and his Pokémon smelled Honey and ran off to lick it off a tree, only to be attacked by a swarm of angry Combee, whom the Honey had been meant for. Later, the trio ventured into the Valley Windworks, where they met Mars, who filled the Windworks control room with sand in order to do away with them. Pearl and Platinum ended up outside the building and were able to uncover Diamond's location inside the building and save him thanks to a group of Combee being attracted by the scent of Honey on Diamond and his Pokémon. In Find Munchlax!!, a Collector used Honey in an attempt to lure out a Munchlax. However, the Honey instead ended up being eaten away by Hareta. Sweet Honey was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Battle Region subset and the English Astral Radiance expansion, with artwork by ORBITALLINK Inc. It allows the player to choose one of their Pokémon, flip a coin until they get tails, and heal 40 damage from that Pokémon for each heads. Additionally, Honey is held by Combee from Stormfront. It allows the player to search their discard pile for a Basic Pokémon and put it onto their Bench when Combee is moved from their hand onto their Bench. The Honey is present in the game data of Pokémon GO, but is unused. Honey may originally have been planned for Generation II, where unused text refers to an item called Sweet Honey (Japanese: あまいミツ Sweet Honey). Regular honey has been seen in various Pokémon canons, even before its official debut in Generation IV: In A Sappy Ending, certain trees that produce honey-like sap were featured. Like the Honey in the games, this sap was also shown being capable of attracting wild Bug Pokémon, like Heracross, Butterfree, and Pinsir. In Wake Up—You're Snorlax!, Red used some Beedrill honey that had fallen on his Bulbasaur to wake up a sleeping Snorlax. As a result, the awoken Snorlax ended up chasing Red until he eventually caught it.

Title: Growth Mulch

The Growth Mulch (Japanese: すくすくこやし Rapid Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation IV. It is a type of Mulch used to make Berry plants grow faster. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the Growth Mulch can be sold to the mulch maniac in Mistralton City for $1000. Makes growth time of a Berry plant 75% of usual, but causes soil to dry out 50% faster. The Growth Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Damp Mulch

The Damp Mulch (Japanese: じめじめこやし Wet Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation IV. It is a type of Mulch used to make Berry plants dry out their soil more slowly. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the Damp Mulch can be sold to the mulch maniac in Mistralton City for $1000. Makes soil dry out 50% slower, but causes growth time of a Berry plant to be 150% of usual. The Damp Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Stable Mulch

The Stable Mulch (Japanese: ながながこやし Drawn-Out Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation IV. It is a type of Mulch used to make Berries remain on the plant longer. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the Stable Mulch can be sold to the mulch maniac in Mistralton City for $1000. Makes Berries stay on plant for 150% of usual time before dropping off. The Stable Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Gooey Mulch

The Gooey Mulch (Japanese: ねばねばこやし Sticky Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation IV. It is a type of Mulch used to make dead Berry plants regrow more often. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the Gooey Mulch can be sold to the mulch maniac in Mistralton City for $1000. Makes Berry plants regrow from dead plants 150% of usual number of times. The Gooey Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Root Fossil

The Root Fossil (Japanese: ねっこのカセキ Root Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation III that can be regenerated into Lileep. It is the counterpart of the Claw Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Root Fossil can be regenerated into a Lileep. In the Generation III games, the Root Fossil is a Key Item. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the Root Fossil (as well as the Claw Fossil) is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable and has no effect. The player is unable to regenerate this fossil in the Cinnabar Lab. From Generation IV onward, the Root Fossil is no longer a Key Item, and is a normal item. Therefore, multiples of them can be obtained, they can be held, and sent to other players via trading. While the fossil itself has not yet physically appeared in the animated series, an image of a Root Fossil was seen in Where's Armaldo?, when Professor Proctor explained Ash and his friends how he had restored several Lileep and Anorith back to life from Root and Claw Fossils. The Root Fossil was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the EX Sandstorm expansion, first released in the Japanese Miracle of the Desert expansion. Although it is a Trainer card, it is played as if it were a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. However, Root Fossil can't be affected by any Special Conditions, can't retreat, and the player may choose to discard it at any time during their turn. Additionally, it allows the player to remove one damage counter from Root Fossil between turns. It can evolve into Lileep that evolve from a Root Fossil. During the EX Series, Knocking Out a Root Fossil was not rewarded with a Prize card (it still had to be discarded). This changed in the Diamond & Pearl Series with its reprint in the Legends Awakened expansion, to match the Fossil cards released in the previous expansion. During the Black & White Series, the Plasma Blast expansion included the Item card Root Fossil Lileep. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal a Lileep they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Root Fossils are also featured on Unidentified Fossil cards. These cards are played as if they were Basic Pokémon and can evolve into Lileep. Main article: Antique Root Fossil (Stellar Crown 130) The Scarlet & Violet Series saw the release of Antique Root Fossil in the Stellar Crown expansion, first released in the Japanese Stellar Miracle expansion. This card is like the previously released Root Fossil card, but with a different Ability that makes it so that if this card is in the Active Spot, the opponent's Active Pokémon's attacks cost more. The Root Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The symbol for the EX Sandstorm expansion resembles the Claw and Root Fossils.

Title: Claw Fossil

The Claw Fossil (Japanese: ツメのカセキ Claw Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation III that can be regenerated into Anorith. It is the counterpart of the Root Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Claw Fossil can be regenerated into an Anorith. In the Generation III games, the Claw Fossil is a Key Item. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the Claw Fossil (as well as the Root Fossil) is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable and has no effect. The player cannot regenerate this fossil in the Cinnabar Lab. From Generation IV onward, the Claw Fossil is no longer a Key Item, and is a normal item. Therefore, multiples of them can be obtained, they can be held, and sent to other players via trading. An image of a Claw Fossil was seen in Where's Armaldo?, when Professor Proctor explained Ash and his friends how he had restored several Lileep and Anorith back to life from Root and Claw Fossils. A Claw Fossil appeared in Restore and Renew! under the possession of the Pewter Museum of Science Curator. The Claw Fossil was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the EX Sandstorm expansion, first released in the Japanese Miracle of the Desert expansion. Although it is a Trainer card, it is played as if it were a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. However, the Claw Fossil can't be affected by any Special Conditions, nor can it retreat, and the player may choose to discard it at any time during their turn. Additionally, if it is in the Active Spot and is damaged by an opponent's attack, it lets the player put one damage counter on the Attacking Pokémon. It can evolve into Anorith that evolve from a Claw Fossil. During the EX Series, Knocking Out a Claw Fossil was not rewarded with a Prize card (it still had to be discarded). This changed in the Diamond & Pearl Series with its reprint in the Legends Awakened expansion, to match the Fossil cards released in the previous expansion. During the XY Series, the Steam Siege expansion included the Item card Claw Fossil Anorith. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal an Anorith they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Claw Fossils are also featured on Unidentified Fossil cards. These cards are played as if they were Basic Pokémon and can evolve into Anorith. The Claw Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. The symbol for the EX Sandstorm expansion resembles the Claw and Root Fossils.

Title: Helix Fossil

The Helix Fossil (Japanese: かいのカセキ Shellfish Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation I that can be regenerated into Omanyte. It is the counterpart of the Dome Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Helix Fossil can be regenerated into an Omanyte. In the Generation I and III games, the Helix Fossil is a Key Item. In Pokémon Emerald, the Helix Fossil (as well as the Dome Fossil and Old Amber) is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable and has no effect. The player is unable to regenerate this fossil in the Devon Corporation. From Generation IV onward, the Helix Fossil is no longer a Key Item, and is a normal item. Therefore, multiples of them can be obtained, they can be held, and sent to other players via trading. Helix Fossil was introduced as an Item card in Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket in the Genetic Apex expansion. Like its TCG counterparts, it is played as if it was a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. A Helix Fossil briefly appeared in File 2: Cubone, where it was shown being hogged by a Super Nerd at Mt. Moon. The Helix Fossil was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Majestic Dawn expansion, first released in the Japanese Moonlit Pursuit expansion. As a Fossil Trainer card, after being played it is put onto the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. When the player attaches a Water Energy from their hand to the Helix Fossil, its Poké-Body allows them to search their deck for an Omanyte that evolves from a Helix Fossil and evolve Helix Fossil into the Omantye. Afterwards, the player shuffles their deck. Main article: Helix Fossil Omanyte (Fates Collide 102) During the XY Series, the Fates Collide expansion included the Item card Helix Fossil Omanyte. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal an Omanyte they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. The Scarlet & Violet Series saw the release of Antique Helix Fossil in the 151 expansion. This card is similar to the original Helix Fossil, being another Fossil Trainer card. It has an Ability that blocks the opponent from playing any Stadium cards from their hand, as long as Antique Helix Fossil is in the Active Spot. Helix Fossils are also featured on the Mysterious Fossil and Unidentified Fossil cards. They are also Fossil Trainer cards which can evolve into certain Omanyte. A Helix Fossil is also on Buried Fossil, which is a Pokémon which evolves in the same way Mysterious Fossil does. The Helix Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. In the first Pokémon Red and Blue run of Twitch Plays Pokémon, the chaotic control scheme resulted in the player constantly using the Helix Fossil. This led to jokes that the game's protagonist was constantly consulting it for advice. This resulted in memes that the player worshiped the Helix Fossil and fans referred to Omanyte as "Lord Helix". In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, when the language is set to French, before battle Brawly says, "J'ai découvert le secret de la vraie puissance en fixant un Nautile pendant des jours et des jours..." ("I discovered the secret of true power by staring at a Helix Fossil for days and days..."), referencing the aforementioned meme. A Helix Fossil is seen on the Poké Lid #141 in Mikasa, Japan alongside two Omanyte.

Title: Dome Fossil

The Dome Fossil (Japanese: こうらのカセキ Carapace Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation I that can be regenerated into Kabuto. It is the counterpart of the Helix Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Dome Fossil can be regenerated into a Kabuto. In the Generation I and III games, the Dome Fossil is a Key Item. In Pokémon Emerald, the Dome Fossil (as well as the Helix Fossil and Old Amber) is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable and has no effect. The player is unable to regenerate this fossil in the Devon Corporation. From Generation IV onward, the Dome Fossil is no longer a Key Item, and is a normal item. Therefore, multiples of them can be obtained, they can be held, and sent to other players via trading. Dome Fossil was introduced as an Item card in Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket in the Genetic Apex expansion. Like its TCG counterparts, it is played as if it was a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. Dome Fossils were first seen in Shell Shock!. They made up the structure of the island Fukuhara Island No. 4, and were revived into Kabuto in red moonlight, causing the whole island to collapse and sink. A Dome Fossil made a cameo appearance in Ancient Family Matters! during a visual representation of Roark's love of Fossils in an argument with Byron. In A Night in the Nacrene City Museum!, a Dome Fossil was first seen chasing Hawes, as he claimed it to be doing, but was later seen safely placed in a display case. Hawes later explained what it was to Ash and his friends. It was later revealed that the Yamask in the Nacrene City Museum was using its move Psychic to make the Dome Fossil float and chase after Hawes after he put its mask in a display case, thinking that it was a replica Yamask mask given to him as a gift from the company that made a Cofagrigus replica after purchasing it from them for the museum. A Dome Fossil briefly appeared in File 2: Cubone, where it was shown being hogged by a Super Nerd at Mt. Moon. The Dome Fossil was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Majestic Dawn expansion, first released in the Japanese Dawn Dash expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after being played it is put on the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. When the player attaches a Fighting Energy from their hand to the Dome Fossil, its Poké-Body allows them to search their deck for a Kabuto that evolves from a Dome Fossil and evolve Dome Fossil into the Kabuto. Afterwards, the player shuffles their deck. Main article: Dome Fossil Kabuto (Fates Collide 96) During the XY Series, the Fates Collide expansion included the Item card Dome Fossil Kabuto. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal a Kabuto they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. The Scarlet & Violet Series saw the release of Antique Dome Fossil in the 151 expansion. This card is similar to the original Dome Fossil, being another Fossil Trainer card. It has an Ability that makes it take 30 less damage from attacks. Dome Fossils are also featured on the Mysterious Fossil card, which is a Fossil Trainer card that can evolve into Kabuto. Unidentified Fossil does not feature a Dome Fossil, but can also be used to evolve into Kabuto. Buried Fossil, on the other hand, is a full blooded Pokémon card that has what appears to be a fossilized Kabuto in the artwork. It evolves in the same way Mysterious Fossil does. The Dome Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. A Dome Fossil is seen alongside a Kabuto on the Poké Lid #274 in Toyohashi, Japan.

Title: Old Amber

The Old Amber (Japanese: ひみつのコハク Secret Amber) is a fossil introduced in Generation I that can be regenerated into Aerodactyl. In the core series games, the Pewter Museum of Science also features fossilized remains of an Aerodactyl's full body. If brought to the one of the following locations, Old Amber can be regenerated into an Aerodactyl. In the Generation I games as well as Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, Old Amber is a Key Item. In Pokémon Emerald, the item data was carried over from Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, but its ability to be regenerated into an Aerodactyl was removed. From Generation IV onwards, Old Amber is no longer a Key Item. Old Amber was introduced as an Item card in Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket in the Genetic Apex expansion. Like its TCG counterparts, it is played as if it was a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. In Putting the Air Back in Aerodactyl!, Gary revived an Old Amber into an Aerodactyl. In Restore and Renew!, Goh found an Old Amber at a digging site at the Pewter Museum of Science and had it revived into an Aerodactyl, which he then caught. The Old Amber appeared in Fossil + Pokémon = Aerodactyl!?, where it was eventually revived into an Aerodactyl in a laboratory. In Make Way for Magmar!, Red received an Old Amber from Giovanni in Pewter City. Later, in Holy Moltres, while following Blaine's instructions, he revived the Old Amber into an Aerodactyl at the Pokémon Lab on Cinnabar Island, making him one of his main team members. The Old Amber was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Majestic Dawn expansion, first released in the Japanese Dawn Dash expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after it is played it is put onto the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has a Poké-Body that prevents all damage it would take from attacks while it is on the Bench. It can evolve into Aerodactyl that evolve from Old Amber. Main article: Old Amber Aerodactyl (Dark Explorers 97) During the Black & White Series, the Dark Explorers expansion included the Item card Old Amber Aerodactyl. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal an Aerodactyl they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. The Scarlet & Violet Series saw the release of Antique Old Amber in the 151 expansion. This card is similar to the original Old Amber, as it is also a Fossil Trainer card. It has an Ability that prevents all effects of the opponent's Pokémon's Abilities on this card. Due to how cards are identified by name by effects, many effects do not recognize Old Amber cards as being Fossil cards. This occurs even if the card in question is a Fossil Trainer card. Mysterious Fossil and Unidentified Fossil are also Fossil Trainer cards. Neither feature Old Amber, but both can evolve into certain Aerodactyl. Buried Fossil shares the naming scheme, but is a regular Pokémon. While no Old Amber is present, it can evolve in the same way Mysterious Fossil does. The Old Amber has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The Old Amber's design seemingly alludes to the theory popularized by George Poinar Jr. of extracting DNA from an insect trapped in fossilized amber. The reference to the theory was originally more evident by the presence of a mosquito in the item's artwork from Generation I.

Title: Armor Fossil

The Armor Fossil (Japanese: たてのカセキ Shield Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation IV that can be regenerated into Shieldon. It is the counterpart of the Skull Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Armor Fossil can be regenerated into a Shieldon. Main article: Armor Fossil (Mysterious Treasures 116) The Armor Fossil was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Mysterious Treasures expansion, first released in the Japanese Secret of the Lakes expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after being played it is put on the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has a Poké-Body that says if it is damaged by an opponent's Pokémon's attack, Armor Fossil's owner can flip coins until they get tails and, for each heads, reduce the damage done by the Attacking Pokémon by ten. It can evolve into Shieldon that evolve from an Armor Fossil. Main article: Armor Fossil Shieldon (Steam Siege 98) During the XY Series, the Steam Siege expansion included the Item card Armor Fossil Shieldon. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal a Shieldon they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Armor Fossils are also featured on Unidentified Fossil cards. They are Fossil Trainer cards that can evolve into certain Shieldon. An Armor Fossil is also seen in the artwork of the Fossil Excavator card from the Mysterious Treasures expansion. The Armor Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Skull Fossil

The Skull Fossil (Japanese: ずがいのカセキ Skull Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation IV that can be regenerated into Cranidos. It is the counterpart of the Armor Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Skull Fossil can be regenerated into a Cranidos. A Skull Fossil was first seen excavated from the Oreburgh Mine in Shapes of Things to Come!. Roark was very interested in it, talking to it and telling it that it would come back to life. He then sent it off to the Oreburgh Mining Museum. Kiawe found a Skull Fossil in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, during the Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for Ash and his classmates by Olivia. A Skull Fossil also appeared on a holographic screen during Sophocles's first hunt for treasure. Main article: Skull Fossil (Mysterious Treasures 117) The Skull Fossil was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Mysterious Treasures expansion, first released in the Japanese Secret of the Lakes expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after being played it is put on the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has a Poké-Body that says if it is Knocked Out by damage from an opponent's attack, Skull Fossil's owner gets to flip coins until they get tails and put one damage counter on the Attacking Pokémon for each heads. It can evolve into Cranidos that evolve from a Skull Fossil. Skull Fossils are also featured on Unidentified Fossil cards, which are Fossil Trainer cards that can evolve into Cranidos as well. The Skull Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Rare Bone

The Rare Bone (Japanese: きちょうなホネ Valuable Bone) is a valuable item introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Rare Bone can be sold to the Rare Bone maniac on Route 18 for $10000. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Rare Bone can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $11,111. The Rare Bone serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Rare Bone counts as a Fossil towards Fossil count when dug up in the Underground. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, when found in the Grand Underground, the Rare Bone uses a whitened alternative of the artwork provided by the Pokémon Global Link. It is the only item in the game to use a sprite that is not identical to its Global Link counterpart. Until Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Rare Bone and Thick Club shared the same Bag sprite.

Title: Shiny Stone

The Shiny Stone (Japanese: ひかりのいし Light Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Shiny Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Shiny Stone. The Shiny Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Shiny Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Minccino evolves into Cinccino if its link is improved while its Warrior is equipped with a Shiny Stone. A Shiny Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. The Shiny Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Togetic requires 80 Togepi Candy and a Shiny Stone to evolve into Togekiss. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Shiny Stone, along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. In Leaping Past Lopunny, a Shiny Stone was seen among the rare stones that Steven had found during his stay in Sinnoh. In All About Arceus II, Lance gave Gold's Togepi a Shiny Stone, allowing him to evolve into Togekiss in All About Arceus VIII immediately after evolving into Togetic. The Shiny Stone has been featured in the artwork of the Togekiss card from the Undaunted expansion. The Shiny Stone has been featured along with the other Evolution stones in the merchandise collection of the same name. The names of the Shiny Stone and Dawn Stone may have been swapped during localization. In Japanese, the Shiny Stone and Dusk Stone are called the "Light Stone" and "Darkness Stone," respectively, suggesting they are meant to be diurnal and nocturnal counterparts. This naming pattern would make more sense if the Shiny Stone had instead been called the Dawn Stone, since dawn is the opposite of dusk. On the other hand, the Japanese name of the Dawn Stone translates to "Awakening Stone," which reflects its role in triggering special alternate Evolutions rather than fitting into a light-and-dark theme. The name "Dawn Stone" may have been chosen because dawn is naturally associated with awakening.

Title: Dusk Stone

The Dusk Stone (Japanese: やみのいし Darkness Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Dusk Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Dusk Stone. The Dusk Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, and Gates to Infinity. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon by offering it at the Luminous Spring or by using it in a dungeon. This consumes the Dusk Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1/2 damage (2 if sticky). In Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky, using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Misdreavus and Lampent evolve into Mismagius and Chandelure, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Dusk Stone. A Dusk Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. The Dusk Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Murkrow requires 80 Murkrow Candy and a Dusk Stone to evolve into Honchkrow. The Dusk Stone debuted in Try for the Family Stone!, where Rhyanna and Mitchell searched for one to evolve their respective Pokémon. They eventually found one, and decided to have a battle to settle which one of them would get to use it. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Dusk Stone, along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. In Dealing With A Koffing Fit, Silver's Murkrow evolved into a Honchkrow due to gaining experience while holding a Dusk Stone, which had been given to Silver by Green. The following gallery is of cards named, holding, mentioning, or featuring the Dusk Stone. The Dusk Stone has been featured along with the other Evolution stones in the merchandise collection of the same name. Even though this item is available in Platinum, the Pokémon that evolve by using it are unobtainable without trading.

Title: Dawn Stone

The Dawn Stone (Japanese: めざめいし Awakening Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Dawn Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Dawn Stone. The Dawn Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers a Dawn Stone at Luminous Spring, male Kirlia and female Snorunt can be evolved into Gallade and Froslass, respectively. This consumes the Dawn Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, a male Warrior's Kirlia and a female Warrior's Snorunt evolve into Gallade and Froslass, respectively, if their link is improved while their Warrior is equipped with a Dawn Stone. A Dawn Stone can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. The Dawn Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Male Kirlia requires 80 Ralts Candy and a Dawn Stone to evolve into Gallade. Mystery on a Deserted Island! featured the Dawn Stone along with all of the other Evolution stones available as of Generation V. A full set of Evolution stones was seen on display in a stone shop in Geosenge Town in The Cave of Trials!. In Leaping Past Lopunny, a Dawn Stone was seen amongst the rare stones that Steven had found during his stay in Sinnoh. In Metagross Investigates, Sapphire's Kirlia, Kirly, evolved into a Gallade due to a Dawn Stone hitting him while training with Rara, who had evolved into a Gardevoir. Later, Steven found another Dawn Stone on the ground. The Dawn Stone has been featured along with the other Evolution stones in the merchandise collection of the same name. The Dawn Stone has only two applications, the least amount out of all Evolution stones. The Dawn Stone is the only stone which can only evolve a Pokémon if it is a specific gender, with this requirement applying to both of the Pokémon it can evolve. Both Pokémon that require the Dawn Stone to evolve debuted in Generation III and are part of a branched Evolution while their evolved form are part of a cross-generational Evolution from Generation IV. The evolved form both gain a type their previous form did not have, Ghost for Froslass and Fighting for Gallade. Both evolved Pokémon associated with the Dawn Stone are capable of Mega Evolution, making it the only Evolution stone with which all final forms can Mega Evolve. The Dawn Stone is the only Evolution stone not to receive any new application past its debut generation. Generation V introduced at least one new application for each of all available Evolution stones at the time, other than the Dawn Stone.

Title: Oval Stone

The Oval Stone (Japanese: まんまるいし Oval Stone) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is an Evolution item that allows Happiny to evolve into Chansey. In the Generation V games, the Oval Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $1500. Causes Happiny to evolve into Chansey when leveled up during the day while holding it. This consumes the Oval Stone. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus only, Happiny evolves into Chansey when exposed to an Oval Stone during the day. The Oval Stone appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Sun Ribbon and Oval Stone at Luminous Spring, Happiny can be evolved into Chansey. This consumes the Sun Ribbon and Oval Stone. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In One Big Happiny Family!, Brock carved and made an Oval Stone for his newborn Happiny, which later helped her evolve into a Chansey in The Brockster Is In!. The Oval Stone was mentioned briefly in Passing by Probopass and Maneuvering around Magnezone. An Oval Stone is featured in the artwork of the HeartGold & SoulSilver Chansey card. While the Oval Stone has an existing Underground sprite in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, it never actually appears there in these games. Prior to Generation VIII, the games' user interface handles the Oval Stone as if it were an Evolution stone. The Oval Stone has the "Use" option when selected in the Bag, and when used it goes to the Pokémon party list like an Evolution stone, but all Pokémon are always listed as "Unable". In Generation V, the Oval Stone is incorrectly categorized in the Bag as a general item rather than a held item. When sorting items by type, the Oval Stone is sorted with Evolution stones rather than with other Evolution-inducing held items. The Oval Stone is the only Evolution item with "Stone" in its English name that is not an Evolution stone.

Title: Odd Keystone

The Odd Keystone (Japanese: かなめいし Keystone) is a type of item introduced in Generation IV. Odd Keystones act like containers, capable of trapping and binding Spiritomb inside themselves. All Spiritomb use it as a base. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Odd Keystone is a Key Item. In the Generation V games, the Odd Keystone can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $3000. Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, an Odd Keystone can be placed in the Hallowed Tower, which is located on Route 209 in the Sinnoh region. This item has no use in other regions. If the player talks to 32 or more other players in the Sinnoh Underground/32 or more NPCs in the Grand Underground after placing the Odd Keystone, a wild Spiritomb will be encountered the next time the player inspects the Hallowed Tower. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, while in theory it is necessary to talk to 32 different players, in practice another player can be counted twice as long as the player themselves leaves the Underground or enters their Secret Base using the "close door and decorate" function between the interactions; this potentially allows a player to encounter Spiritomb by interacting with the same player 32 times. Once placed in Hallowed Tower, the player can check the Odd Keystone to track their progress. The message gradually changes as the player interacts with more players in the Underground. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, after the player obtains the Odd Keystone from Vessa, they are tasked to find 107 wisps throughout Hisui. The number of wisps collected is shown on the Odd Keystone in the satchel. After the 107 wisps are found and the player talks to Vessa again, the player is tasked to go to the Shrouded Ruins to find Vessa and the final wisp. After the final wisp is found, the Odd Keystone disappears, and upon interacting with the mysterious statue in the shape of the Odd Keystone, the player can encounter Spiritomb. The Odd Keystone is clearly visible on Spiritomb's body. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, an Odd Keystone appears in the overworld on Sea Mauville. It appears just before the player faces Spiritomb and therefore cannot be collected. Documents aboard the ship reveal it was originally donated by the Oreburgh Mine. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, an enormous statue in the shape of an Odd Keystone appears in the Shrouded Ruins. By interacting with the statue after obtaining all 108 wisps, the player can face Spiritomb. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, when the player and partner reach Sealed Ruin Pit, they see an Odd Keystone, not realizing it is a Pokémon. Suddenly, it will reveal itself to be Spiritomb and attack the duo. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Spiritomb's sleeping sprites involve it returning to the Odd Keystone. In The Keystone Pops!, while Ash and Dawn were having a practice battle between Buizel and Aipom, Buizel's Sonic Boom accidentally destroyed the Hallowed Tower, releasing a Spiritomb from the Odd Keystone sealed inside of it. Ash and Pikachu later battled Spiritomb, eventually defeating it and resealing it back into the Odd Keystone, which was then placed back into the rebuilt Hallowed Tower. In The Spectral Express!, Ash and Goh came across an Odd Keystone aboard a ghost train. When Ash touched it, one of Spiritomb's spirits entered his body and possessed him into doing mischievous deeds. Angered by losing one of its spirits, Spiritomb emerged from the keystone and went on a rampage. Once the spirit was forced out of Ash's body and Ash's Gengar succeeded in returning it to Spiritomb, the Forbidden Pokémon calmed down and returned into its keystone. The keystone was later taken away by a group of Gastly and Haunter when the ghost train stopped at a cemetery. In Bewitch, Battle, and Bewilder!, an Odd Keystone appeared as a part of Cynthia's Spiritomb. Cynthia's Spiritomb is connected to an Odd Keystone, which was fully seen in Shunning Spiritomb, when the Forbidden Pokémon was frozen by Cyrus's Weavile and she retracted into the stone. An Odd Keystone appeared in Leaping Past Lopunny among the rare stones that Steven had found during his stay in Sinnoh. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, if an Alpha Spiritomb appears, the entire face of the Odd Keystone turns red, in addition to Spiritomb's eyes.

Title: Adamant Orb

The Adamant Orb (Japanese: こんごうだま Diamond Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Steel-type moves when held by Dialga. It is one of the orbs associated with the Pokémon of myth. If held by Dialga, it increases the power of its Dragon- and Steel-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon Platinum, it is required to encounter Dialga at Spear Pillar. The Adamant Orb debuted in A Secret Sphere of Influence!, in which Team Rocket was tasked by Team Galactic to steal it from the Eterna Historical Museum. Team Rocket successfully made the theft, framing Nando in the process, but ultimately failed to get away with the orb. In Losing Its Lustrous!, Team Galactic attacked a police plane transporting the Adamant Orb from Eterna City to Celestic Town and stole it. In Double Team Turnover!, after both orbs had been stolen by Team Galactic, the Lustrous and Adamant Orbs were shown being connected to some kind of machinery at the Team Galactic HQ. In these episodes, Cyrus explained his belief that the Adamant Orb is Dialga and that the Lustrous Orb is Palkia. At the end of Unlocking the Red Chain of Events!, Team Galactic was seen taking them to the Spear Pillar, along with the Red Chains. In The Battle Finale of Legend!, Cyrus placed them and the lake guardians in place around the ruins at the Spear Pillar. This process allowed him to call forth Dialga and Palkia, who were immediately taken under his control by the Red Chains. After Cyrus's attempt to create a new world had been foiled and Team Galactic had been defeated, Gary secured the orbs and decided to return them to Professor Carolina. The Adamant Orb was briefly mentioned by Platinum in Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia VI. The Adamant Orb is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game as a held item on the Majestic Dawn Dialga card. This held item works in the same fashion as a Poké-Body, in that the effect the item provides is active whenever the Pokémon is in play.

Title: Lustrous Orb

The Lustrous Orb (Japanese: しらたま Pearl Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Water-type moves when held by Palkia. It is one of the orbs associated with the Pokémon of myth. If held by Palkia, it increases the power of its Dragon- and Water-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon Platinum, it is required to encounter Palkia at Spear Pillar. In Top-Down Training!, Sinnoh Now reported that the Lustrous Orb—an item related to the Legendary Pokémon Palkia—was uncovered by archaeologists at the Celestic Ruins, near the Celestic Town Historical Research Center. In Losing Its Lustrous!, Professor Carolina was studying the Lustrous Orb, and was having the Adamant Orb transported there to be studied as well. Upon receiving word that the Adamant Orb had been stolen by Team Galactic, the Lustrous Orb was put under heavy police protection by Officer Jenny and her officers. Professor Carolina later showed Ash, his friends, Cynthia, and Cyrus the Orb's hidden away location for further examination. However, after Mars set off some explosives outside of the building, the door to the Orb room failed to reseal. While the group attempted to move the Lustrous Orb to another location, Team Galactic burst in and engaged the group and Cynthia in battle. In Double Team Turnover!, Team Rocket succeeded in stealing the Lustrous Orb while disguised as police officers. Ash, his friends and Team Galactic tried to get the Orb back, following Team Rocket to the Celestic Ruins. Cornered, Team Rocket threatened to have James's Carnivine swallow the item. Mars's Purugly suddenly jumped on Carnivine's head and grabbed the Lustrous Orb, allowing Team Galactic to get away with it. Back in the Team Galactic HQ, the Lustrous and Adamant Orbs were shown being connected to some kind of machinery. In If the Scarf Fits, Wear It!, a picture of the Lustrous Orb appeared in an article in the Sinnoh Star that Brock was reading. The two Orbs made a brief appearance at the end of Unlocking the Red Chain of Events!, where Team Galactic was seen taking them to the Spear Pillar, along with the Red Chains. The Orbs reappeared in The Battle Finale of Legend!, where Cyrus placed them and the lake guardians around the ruins at the Spear Pillar. This process allowed him to call forth Dialga and Palkia, who were immediately taken under his control by the Red Chains. After Cyrus's attempt to create a new world had been foiled and Team Galactic was defeated, Gary secured the Orbs and decided to return them to Professor Carolina and the Celestic Research Center. The Lustrous Orb was briefly mentioned by Platinum in Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia VI. The Lustrous Orb is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game as a held item on the Majestic Dawn Palkia card. This held item works in the same fashion as a Poké-Body, in that the effect the item provides is active whenever the Pokémon is in play.

Title: Grass Mail

The Grass Mail (Japanese: グラスメール Grass Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder. For the Generation II version of Webster's mail, see Flower Mail → Webster's mail. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the player can deliver a Grass Mail from Webster on Route 35 to a non-player character on Route 31 in exchange for a TM44 (Rest). While it is originally held by a Spearow named Kenya, the player can deliver the mail with any Pokémon. If the mail is delivered when held by a Pokémon other than the designated Spearow, said Pokémon will be returned to the player afterwards. Reporting the successful delivery also earns the player an HP Up.

Title: Flame Mail

The Flame Mail (Japanese: フレイムメール Flame Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Bubble Mail

The Bubble Mail (Japanese: ブルーメール Blue Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Bloom Mail

The Bloom Mail (Japanese: ブルームメール Bloom Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Tunnel Mail

The Tunnel Mail (Japanese: トンネルメール Tunnel Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Steel Mail

The Steel Mail (Japanese: スチールメール Steel Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Heart Mail

The Heart Mail (Japanese: ラブラブメール Love-Love Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder. The Heart Mail is one of the 6 types of Mail featured in a Pokémon Center-exclusive letter set released in November 2021.

Title: Snow Mail

The Snow Mail (Japanese: ブリザードメール Blizzard Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Space Mail

The Space Mail (Japanese: スペースメール Space Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Air Mail

The Air Mail (Japanese: エアメール Air Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Mosaic Mail

The Mosaic Mail (Japanese: モザイクメール Mosaic Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Brick Mail

The Brick Mail (Japanese: ブリックメール Brick Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation IV games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. For instance, the player can select the sentence "I love ______________!" and insert the word "BULBASAUR". This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. The message is not readable in Pokémon Battle Revolution or in My Pokémon Ranch. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation V games through the Poké Transfer or Relocator. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief, it causes Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Cheri Berry

A Cheri Berry (Japanese: クラボのみ Kurabo Fruit) is a type of Berry. It was introduced in Generation III and is the first Berry numerically in both Hoenn and Sinnoh. It is the spiritual successor of the PRZCureBerry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Cheri Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is paralyzed, it will consume its held Cheri Berry and cure it of paralysis. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it also cures the consumer of paralysis. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of paralysis. This consumes the Cheri Berry. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can be used to cure a paralyzed Pokémon, or thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Cheri Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Cheri Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Cheri Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Cheri Berry appears in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. It is a food item that heals paralysis and fills Belly by 5/2. The Cheri Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Cheri Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Cheri Berries can be gathered by Fighting-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Cheri Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Cheri Berries debuted in Berry, Berry Interesting, where May picked a few from a garden to blend with other Berries in order to produce Pokéblocks for her Pokémon. In Cooking Up a Sweet Story!, Cheri Berries were in Abigail's Berry basket. Cheri Berries appeared in Hungry for the Good Life!. In Uncrushing Defeat!, a Cheri Berry was used to heal Ash's Monferno. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Dr. White gave Jessie a Cheri Berry, which cured her after she had been hit by a wild Gloom's Stun Spore. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Cheri Berries were at a Pokémon Center. In Tasting the Bitter with the Sweet!, an image of a Cheri Berry was displayed by Rotom. In As Long as I'm with My Friends, Roy and Fuecoco picked some Cheri Berries to add spiciness to the curry they wanted to make, and were ultimately successful despite being the victims of theft by a group of Skwovet led by a Greedent. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate! In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate!, Cheri Berries were under the possession of Team Go-Getters. However, the Cheri Berries, along with most of their other Berries, were eaten by Ekans of Team Meanies. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Cheri Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, a Cheri Berry appeared amongst the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Sneaky Like Shedinja II, Cheri Berries were some of the Berries that Emerald's Sceptile sliced with Leaf Blade for its Trainer to eat. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Cheri Berry was seen amongst the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera which Lax had hidden inside its fur. In Lucky Lucario II, a Cheri Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. In Fussing and Fighting, a Cheri Berry was a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, multiple Cheri Berries appeared in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. The following gallery is of cards mentioning, featuring, or holding a Cheri Berry. The Cheri Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. At a size of 0.8 inches (2 cm), the Cheri Berry is the smallest Berry. The Cheri Berry's design and name may be based on cherries and cherry peppers.

Title: Chesto Berry

A Chesto Berry (Japanese: カゴのみ Kago Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the Mint Berry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Chesto Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is asleep, it will consume its held Chesto Berry and cure it of sleep. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it also cures the consumer of sleep. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, it instead cures the holder of drowsiness. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of sleep (or, in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, drowsiness). This consumes the Chesto Berry. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can be used to cure a drowsy Pokémon, or thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Chesto Berry for an Iron if the Favor Lady asks for 'something wham-ish' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Chesto Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Chesto Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Chesto Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Chesto Berry appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. It is a food item that wakes up a Pokémon and fills the Belly by 5/2. If the Pokémon is not Sleeping, it will instead give the Sleepless status for 9-10 turns or for the rest of the floor. The Chesto Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Chesto Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Chesto Berries can be gathered by Poison-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Chesto Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. The Chesto Berry appears in Pokémon Pokopia. It grows naturally on Chesto Trees. Ditto can consume Chesto Berries to restore PP, and they can also be gifted to other Pokémon to restore their energy. Chesto Berries debuted in An Egg Scramble!, where Brock used a mortar and pestle to grind them into a powder and sprinkle it on Khoury's Totodile's food in order to make it more appealing to the Big Jaw Pokémon. In The Island of Illusions!, a Chesto Berry was used as part of a medicine used to cure Iris's Axew from its sleep. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Chesto Berries were growing in Dr. White's garden. In So You're Having a Bad Day!, while trying to escape from a drowsy Pangoro, Bonnie and Meowth fell off a small cliff and onto a group of Foongus. They used Spore in retaliation, and it subsequently put Bonnie to sleep. Because the two were bound together by a sturdy vine, Meowth had Dedenne fetch a Chesto Berry to wake her up. In Over the Mountain of Snow!, Bunnelby found a Chesto Berry while Clemont and Bonnie were looking for Mountain Marigolds, which they needed to cure a sick Snover. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Chesto Berries were at a Pokémon Center. In A Diamond in the Rough!, Florges tried to use Chesto Berries to lure out a Carbink that was causing havoc in the wetlands. However, Carbink knocked Florges over from behind before she could set the Berries down. Having not noticed Carbink, Florges blamed a nearby Quagsire and angrily attacked it. In A Gaggle of Gadget Greatness!, a basket full of Chesto Berries was at the Gadget Festival. Chesto Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. In Walkthrough! Battle Tower!!, Yū had his Rotom hold a Chesto Berry during his Battle Tower walkthrough, allowing it to immediately wake up when a Noctowl used Hypnosis on it. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Chesto Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, a Chesto Berry appeared among the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie, the rental Glalie Noland used during his battle with Emerald was holding a Chesto Berry, meant to be used in combination with its Rest move. However, Noland never had a chance to use the combo before Glalie was defeated by Emerald's Sceptile. In Lucky Lucario II, a Chesto Berry was seen among the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley during their training session at Iron Island. The following is a list of cards named or holding a Chesto Berry. The Chesto Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. In the games, Chesto Berry is often combined with Rest, making the move work like a Full Restore. This combo is colloquially known as Resto Chesto. The Chesto Berry's design and name may be based on the Chinese water chestnut.

Title: Pecha Berry

A Pecha Berry (Japanese: モモンのみ Momon Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It cures a Pokémon of poison. It is the spiritual successor of the PSNCureBerry from Generation II. In the Generation V games, the Pecha Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is poisoned, it will consume its held Pecha Berry and cure it of poison. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it also cures the consumer of poison. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of poison. This consumes the Pecha Berry. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can be used to cure a poisoned Pokémon, or thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Pecha Berry for a Protein if the Favor Lady asks for 'something slippery' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Pecha Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Pecha Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Pecha Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Pecha Berry appears in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. It is a food item that heals the Poisoned and Badly Poisoned status conditions and fills Belly by 5/2. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Pecha Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Pecha Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Pecha Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Pecha Berries can be gathered by Fairy-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Pecha Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. The Pecha Berry appears in Pokémon Pokopia. It grows naturally on Pecha Trees. Ditto can consume Pecha Berries to restore PP, and they can also be gifted to other Pokémon to restore their energy. Pecha Berries debuted in The Lotad Lowdown, where they were being grown at the Pretty Petal flower shop. In All in a Day's Wurmple, May brought a couple of Pecha Berries for herself and Forrest Franklin to eat. In A Corphish Out of Water, Ash and Pikachu found a Pecha Berry tree. However, before they could eat any of the Berries, they were chased away by an angry Shroomish, which Ash had accidentally stepped onto. In Just One of the Geysers, Pecha Berries were inside Brawly's fridge. In Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, Pecha Berries were being sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. In Berry, Berry Interesting, May picked a few Pecha Berries from a garden so she could blend them with other Berries and produce Pokéblocks for her Pokémon. In A Real Cleffa-Hanger, Misty picked Pecha Berries for herself and Max. In On Cloud Arcanine, a wild Arcanine took Pecha Berries from a valley full of Pecha trees to feed its Growlithe puppies. In Slaking Kong!, Team Rocket made a group of wild Aipom bring them a variety of Berries, including Pecha Berries. In Crossing Paths, James and Meowth picked Pecha Berries. Pecha Berries appeared in Hungry for the Good Life!. In Arceus and the Jewel of Life, Pecha Berries were in a Berry basket. In The Brockster Is In!, Brock cured Ash's Pikachu with a Pecha Berry. Later, he used a medicine made from a Pecha Berry to medicate a group of poisoned Pokémon. In Ash and Trip's Third Battle!, Cilan used a Pecha Berry in his cooking. In White—Victini and Zekrom and Black—Victini and Reshiram, multiple Pecha Berries were in Eindoak Town. Pecha Berries appeared in The Beartic Mountain Feud!. In Rocking the Virbank Gym! Part 2, Roxie gave Ash's Pignite and Pikachu one Pecha Berry each, helping them recover from the poison inflicted on them by her Pokémon. In A Stealthy Challenge!, Clemont cured Sanpei's Greninja from its poison with a Pecha Berry. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash's gift to his Pokémon included Pecha Berries. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Pecha Berries were growing in Dr. White's garden. In Good Friends, Great Training!, Pecha Berries were in a pile of Berries being eaten by Meowth. In Performing with Fiery Charm!, a Performer competing in the Dendemille Showcase Rookie Class used Pecha Berries in her Poké Puffs. In Pikachu and the Pokémon Music Squad, Pecha Berries were on a large tree. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Pecha Berries were at a Pokémon Center. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Pecha Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Showcase. In Mega Evolution Special IV, Alain used a Pecha Berry to cure his Charizard from the poison inflicted on it by a Trainer's Mega Venusaur's Venoshock. In From A to Z!, Dedenne offered a Pecha Berry to Squishy, but it refused to take it, instead using sunlight as its energy source. In A Dancing Debut!, Pecha Berries were seen during the Couriway Town Showcase and later as a part of Ash and his friends' meal. Pecha Berries appeared in the Poké TV segment of Making Friends and Influencing Villains!. In Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, Pecha Berries were at the Nebel Plateau. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Pecha Berries as ingredients for a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. In The Guardian's Challenge!, a Pecha Berry was seen as a part of the meal Mallow made for Ash and his classmates' Pokémon. Pecha Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style! and A Seasoned Search!. In the Poké Problem extra scene in SM035, Mallow used Pecha Berries as ingredients to make a less spicy version of the "Akala Curry" for Snowy, who had been unwilling to eat the spicy food. In Fighting Back the Tears!, Professor Burnet's Munchlax offered a Pecha Berry to Mareanie, but she didn't want it. In A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, Pecha Berries were in the Ultra Guardians' medical kit. Team Rocket was also seen picking up some Pecha Berries in a forest. In Acting True to Form!, Pecha Berries were in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den. In the banned episode SM064, a group of Passimian were playfully throwing Pecha Berries at each other. In Love at First Twirl!, a Pecha Berry was a part of a meal Ash had made for his Pokémon. In The Dealer of Destruction!, Kiawe gave Ash a Pecha Berry to heal his Pikachu from the poison inflicted on him by Guzma's Golisopod's Poison Jab. In A Little Rocket R & R!, Ash gave his Pikachu a Pecha Berry to heal the Mouse Pokémon from the poison inflicted on him by a Team Rocket Grunt's Toxicroak's Sludge Bomb. In Crowning the Chow Crusher!, Pecha Tart was one of the dishes served during the Pokémon Grand Eating Contest. In Healing the Healer!, Goh used Pecha Berries to heal a Suicune from the poison inflicted on it by a group of Pokémon hunters. In The Same Moon, Now and Forever!, Pikachu brought Meowth a Pecha Berry to heal the poison affecting him, after recalling how Ash had once done the same to him. Multiple Pecha Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. In As Long as I'm with My Friends, Liko and Dot picked some Pecha Berries to add flavor to the curry Liko wanted to make. In A Challenge from the Explorers, Ludlow's Quagsire shared three of the Pecha Berries it was eating with Dot's Tinkatink. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate! In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate!, Pecha Berries were under the possession of Team Go-Getters. However, the Pecha Berries, along with most of their other Berries, were eaten by Ekans of Team Meanies. In Jō VS Team Rocket, Jō used a Pecha Berry to cure his Totodile from the poison inflicted on it by Ariana's Gloom's Poison Powder. In Nixing Nuzleaf, Ruby picked some Pecha Berries from a Berry tree. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Pecha Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. Emerald used several Pecha Berries off-panel during his Battle Pike challenge to cure his Pokémon. Unfortunately, he ran out of them just before reaching Lucy in Moving Past Milotic, making him unable to cure his badly poisoned Pokémon without switching them out to activate Natural Cure. In Sneaky Like Shedinja II, a Pecha Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Emerald's Sceptile sliced with Leaf Blade for its Trainer to eat. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Pecha Berry was seen amongst the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera which Lax had hidden inside its fur. In The Final Match and a Surprising Finale!, Gladion used a Pecha Berry to heal his Porygon from the poison inflicted on it by Moon's Alolan Grimer's Poison Gas. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Pecha Berries were in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. In BAAM!! Incredible Evolution of the Three Pokémon, a Pecha Berry was given to a poisoned Zorua. The following is a list of cards named or holding a Pecha Berry. The Pecha Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods, a selection of which can be seen below: The Pecha Berry's design and name may be based on peaches.

Title: Rawst Berry

A Rawst Berry (Japanese: チーゴのみ Chīgo Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the Ice Berry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Rawst Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is burned, it will consume its held Rawst Berry and cure it of its burn. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it also cures the consumer of its burn. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of its burn. This consumes the Rawst Berry. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can be used to cure a burned Pokémon, or thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Rawst Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Rawst Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Rawst Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Rawst Berry appears in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. It is a food item that heals burn and fills Belly by 5/2. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Rawst Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Rawst Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Rawst Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Rawst Berries can be gathered by Ice-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Rawst Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. In Pokémon UNITE, Rawst Berries appear in the pile of Berries that Greedent crashes into during its Unite Move, Berry Belly Flop. The Rawst Berry appears in Pokémon Pokopia. It grows naturally on Rawst Trees. Ditto can consume Rawst Berries to restore PP, and they can also be gifted to other Pokémon to restore their energy. Rawst Berries debuted in Grooming Furfrou!, where they were being presented by Jessica at Sherman's Furfrou grooming salon. In To Find a Fairy Flower!, a Rawst Berry was pictured in a newspaper that Jessie was using to hide from Ash and his friends. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Rawst Berries to his Pokémon. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Rawst Berries were growing in Dr. White's garden. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Rawst Berries were at a Pokémon Center. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Rawst Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase Rookie Class. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Rawst Berries as ingredients for a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. In Fighting Back the Tears!, Professor Burnet used Rawst Berries as a part of the Pokémon food meal she made for Mareanie. In the banned episode SM064, a Rawst Berry was in the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In Love at First Twirl!, Ash used a Rawst Berry for a meal he made for his Pokémon. In The Young Flame Strikes Back!, a Rawst Berry was included in Pikachu, Poipole, and Togedemaru's meal. Multiple Rawst Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Rawst Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, a Rawst Berry appeared amongst the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Rawst Berry was seen amongst the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera which Lax had hidden inside its fur. In The Final Dimensional Duel VII, Platinum mentioned Rawst Berries while telling Palmer about her research on Jupiter's Tangrowth's signature attack, Natural Gift. In Fussing and Fighting, two Rawst Berries were a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, a Rawst Berry was found by Moon at Lush Jungle during her search for a special Mirage Berry. More Rawst Berries also appeared in the pile of Berries gathered by local Pokémon willing to help her with her search. The following is a list of cards named or holding a Rawst Berry. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team's Pokémon News #44, it is mentioned that an unripe Rawst Berry is colored green. The ripe ones are sky blue, but are bitter compared to the unripe ones. The Rawst Berry's design and name may be based on strawberries.

Title: Aspear Berry

An Aspear Berry (Japanese: ナナシのみ Nanashi Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the Burnt Berry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Aspear Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is frozen, it will consume its Aspear Berry and defrost them. When forcibly consumed via Fling, it also cures the consumer of its freeze. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of its freeze. This consumes the Aspear Berry. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can be used to cure a frostbitten Pokémon, or thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange an Aspear Berry for a Calcium if the Favor Lady asks for 'something roundish' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Aspear Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Aspear Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Aspear Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Aspear Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Aspear Berry appears in Pokémon Pokopia. It grows naturally on Aspear Trees. Ditto can consume Aspear Berries to restore PP, and they can also be gifted to other Pokémon to restore their energy. Aspear Berries debuted in Cooking Up A Sweet Story!. Abigail's Pikachu, nicknamed Sugar, had been perfecting a way to use Thunderbolt on Aspear Berries so that they would be tender enough to use as ingredients for a cake. After Sugar evolved into a Raichu, it was also revealed to have found a way to pulverize the Berries with its newly learned Focus Punch. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Aspear Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Aspear Berries were growing in Dr. White's garden. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Aspear Berries were at a Pokémon Center. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Aspear Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. Aspear Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. Aspear Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. In Night of a Thousand Poses!, sliced-up Aspear Berries were a part of Snowy's meal. In the banned episode SM064, an Aspear Berry was at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including an Aspear Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, an Aspear Berry appeared amongst the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Shorting Out Electivire, Volkner's Raichu used his held Aspear Berry to unfreeze himself after he was partially frozen by Platinum's Empoleon's Blizzard. In Shunning Spiritomb, Cynthia attempted to use an Aspear Berry on her Spiritomb after it had been frozen by Cyrus's Weavile, but Weavile prevented the use of the Berry by using Embargo. In Flying Ship, a partially eaten Aspear Berry was seen behind Blake and Whitley after Colress had used Kyurem to freeze them. It was later revealed that Blake had given said Berry to Kelden to hold, having expected Kyurem to freeze them. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Aspear Berries were in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. In Crunch!! Snowy Battle, Casey threw an Aspear Berry at Gordie's Stonjourner when she mistook Gordie's battle with Marvin as a hostile attack. This Berry's Natural Gift type is Ice; coincidentally, it also acts in the same way as an Ice Heal when used on a Pokémon. The Aspear Berry's design and name may be based on the Asian pear.

Title: Leppa Berry

A Leppa Berry (Japanese: ヒメリのみ Himeri Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is considered a spiritual successor to the MysteryBerry from Generation II, having a nearly identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Leppa Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Leppa Berry, if held by a Pokémon, restores 10 PP to a move that drops to 0 PP. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore 20 PP. If a Pokémon obtains a Leppa Berry or if Magic Room ends when it already has one or more moves at 0 PP, the Berry will be consumed immediately, and if there are multiple moves with 0 PP, whichever one is first in the move order will be restored. If a Pokémon is forced to eat a Leppa Berry as a result of Fling, Bug Bite, Pluck, Stuff Cheeks, or Teatime, PP will be restored to the first move that has 0 PP left if such a move exists, or otherwise to the first move that has any PP missing. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores 10 PP to a selected move. It is consumed after use. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores 10 PP to a Pokémon's move, and can also be thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Leppa Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Leppa Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Leppa Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Leppa Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Leppa Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Leppa Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Leppa Berries can be gathered by Fire-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Leppa Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. In Pokémon UNITE, Leppa Berries appear in the pile of Berries that Greedent crashes into during its Unite Move, Berry Belly Flop. The Leppa Berry appears in Pokémon Pokopia. It grows naturally on Leppa Trees. Ditto can consume Leppa Berries to restore PP, and they can also be gifted to other Pokémon to restore their energy. Leppa Berries debuted in Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, where they were being sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Leppa Berries were growing in Dr. White's garden. In Tasting the Bitter with the Sweet!, an image of a Leppa Berry was displayed by Rotom. In The Same Moon, Now and Forever!, Ash, his friends, Pikachu, and Meowth almost ate some Leppa Berries before being distracted. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Leppa Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, a Leppa Berry appeared amongst the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Chipping Away at Regirock, Crystal's Phanpy picked up a Leppa Berry for Emerald during his Battle Pyramid challenge. In Lucky Lucario II, a Leppa Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Leppa Berries were in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. The Leppa Berry is one of only two Berries which has a unique growth period: In Generation III, it was the only Berry that grew in 16 hours, while it is joined in that group by the Oran Berry and Persim Berry in Generation IV. The only other Berry with a unique growth period is the Lum Berry. When used from the Bag, its effect is identical to that of a regular Ether. The Leppa Berry and Lunar Dance are the only methods of PP restoration in link battles outside of the Wonder Launcher. When Greedent is damaged in the games, a Leppa Berry falls out of its tail. The apple Applin makes its home out of bears a resemblance to Leppa Berries. The Leppa Berry's design and name is based on apples. Its name is an anagram of apple.

Title: Oran Berry

An Oran Berry (Japanese: オレンのみ Oran Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the standard Berry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Oran Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder's HP is below 50% at the end of a turn, it will consume its held Oran Berry and restore 10 HP. If the holder's HP falls below 50%, it will consume its held Oran Berry and restore 10 HP. If the holder's HP falls below 50%, it will consume its held Oran Berry and restore 10 HP. Due to a glitch, dropping below half HP by taking self-inflicted damage from confusion will not activate the Oran Berry. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore 20 HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores 10 HP to that Pokémon. It is consumed after use. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores 20 HP to the Pokémon, and can also be thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange an Oran Berry for a Calcium if the Favor Lady asks for 'something roundish' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Oran Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Oran Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Oran Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Oran Berry appears in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. It is a food item that restores HP by 100 and Belly by 5/2. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, if the user's max HP is less than 100 or their HP is full, it temporarily increases max HP by 10 for that dungeon. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, there is also an item called the Oren Berry that damages the user by 10 HP, but looks the same as the Oran Berry on a dungeon floor. In Gates To Infinity, it heals 100 HP when consumed. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Oran Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Oran Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Oran Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Oran Berries can be gathered by Water-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Oran Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. In Pokémon UNITE, Oran Berries appear as part of Greedent's moveset. Greedent drops an Oran Berry into play when using its boosted Basic Attack and Defense Curl, as well as when taking damage due to the effects of the Cheek Pouch ability. The moves Stuff Cheeks and Covet drop multiple Oran Berries. Eating Oran Berries restores the user's HP. Player characters other than Greedent, including Greedent's opponents, are able to eat the Oran Berries. Oran Berries stay on the ground for 10 seconds before disappearing. Lastly, Greedent eats an Oran Berry during its Unite Move, Berry Belly Flop, healing in the process. Oran Berry is one of the most frequently appearing Berries in animation, commonly used to heal weakened Pokémon. Oran Berries debuted in The Lotad Lowdown, where they were being grown at the Pretty Petal flower shop. In Just One of the Geysers, Oran Berries were seen inside Brawly's fridge. In Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, Oran Berries were being sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. In Berry, Berry Interesting, Oran Berries were used for Pokéblock production. In Leave It To Brocko!, Brock gave some Oran Berries to a wild Nuzleaf. In Cooking Up a Sweet Story!, Oran Berries were seen in Abigail's Berry basket. Oran Berry trees appeared in Buizel Your Way Out Of This!. Buizel was also seen eating a Berry from said trees. Oran Berries appeared in Hungry for the Good Life!. In Trials and Adulations!, Dawn had her Ambipom bring some Oran Berries for her injured Mamoswine. In Promoting Healthy Tangrowth!, a wild Tangrowth that was using Absorb to steal other Pokémon's energy in order to restore a damaged tree left Meowth an Oran Berry to restore his drained energy. In Three Sides to Every Story!, Oran Berries were growing at Lulu's garden. Oran trees appeared in PK21. Meowth tried to pick up a Berry, but he accidentally grabbed Marill's tail. Marill then proceeded to use Sing, putting Meowth, Wobbuffet, and Mime Jr. to sleep. In The Brockster Is In!, Brock mixed some Durin and Oran Berries into an energy drink to medicate a poisoned Pichu. However, Pichu was too weak to drink the medicine, and was instead healed when Brock's Happiny evolved into Chansey and used Soft-Boiled on it. In A Venipede Stampede!, Iris gave a wild Venipede an Oran Berry. In Ash and Trip's Third Battle!, Iris challenged Ash to a race to an Oran tree and back. However, since the two ran into Trip along the way, the race was never finished. In White—Victini and Zekrom and Black—Victini and Reshiram, Oran Berries were seen in Eindoak Town. Oran Berries appeared in The Beartic Mountain Feud!. In Baffling the Bouffalant!, Iris gave a wild Bouffalant an Oran Berry. In All for the Love of Meloetta!, Iris and Cilan found an Oran tree on a cliff. Iris used her Emolga to pick up a Berry from the tree and take it to the sick Meloetta. In a flashback in Kyurem VS. The Sword of Justice, Keldeo and Virizion were seen eating Oran Berries. In The Name's N!, N gave Ash's Pikachu an Oran Berry to help it recover from James's Amoonguss's attack. In The Island of Illusions!, Oran Berries were used as part of a medicine. In Butterfree and Me!, Oran trees were seen growing on Wayfarer Island. Ash and his friends gathered some Berries from the trees for a wild Caterpie they were trying to help to evolve, but were soon chased away by an angry Ursaring, whose territory the area was. In A Battle of Aerial Mobility!, Clemont gave Ash's Pikachu, Froakie, and newly caught Fletchling an Oran Berry each. In Grooming Furfrou!, Oran Berries were seen at Sherman's Furfrou grooming salon. In Kindergarten Chaos!, Penelope gave Ash's Froakie an Oran Berry after her Sylveon had defeated Froakie in a battle. In Facing the Grand Design!, a group of wild Malamar and Inkay were seen feeding Oran Berries to the forest Pokémon near Grace Tower. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Oran Berries to his Pokémon as part of a gift. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Oran Berries were seen growing in Dr. White's garden. In Good Friends, Great Training!, Oran Berries were seen in a pile of Berries being eaten by Meowth. In Performing with Fiery Charm!, Oran Berries were used as Poké Puff ingredients during the Dendemille Town Pokémon Showcase. In Adventures in Running Errands!, a Pokémon Center had Oran Berries. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Oran Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In A Fiery Rite of Passage!, a wild Litleo was seen eating an Oran Berry from an Oran tree. In A Dancing Debut!, Oran Berries were used in the Couriway Town Pokémon Showcase and later as a part of Ash and his friends' meal. In Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, Oran Berries were at the Nebel Plateau. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Oran Berries for a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. Oran Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. In That's Why the Litten is a Scamp!, Litten took an Oran Berry from a pile and gave it to an old Stoutland it was living with. Oran Berries appeared in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, when Lana was on her treasure hunts on Akala Island and when Mallow was on her second hunt for treasure. In Night of a Thousand Poses!, Oran Berries were seen as a part of Snowy's meal. In A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, Mallow was seen feeding Oran Berries to an injured Snorlax. In Acting True to Form!, Oran Berries were piled in Bewear's den. In the banned episode SM064, an Oran Berry was at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In The Climb to Be the Very Best!, Leon gave Ash an Oran Berry to heal his Pikachu after Ash lost his battle against him. In Sword and Shield, Slumbering Weald!, Eva was feeding Doug's Centiskorch some Oran Berries when it was suddenly hit by a beam of Dynamax energy, causing it to Gigantamax and go on a rampage. In Healing the Healer!, Oran Berries were among the Berries Goh gathered for a Suicune and several forest Pokémon to eat. In Distant Blue Sky!, an Oran Berry orchard appeared next to So and Sue's house. An Oran Berry tree appeared in The Same Moon, Now and Forever!. In The Treasure After the Storm!, Oran Berries were among one of the Berries that Fuecoco was seen eating from a pile of Berries gathered by the local forest Pokémon in the area. They were later seen being picked by Liko to replenish the upset Pokémon's eaten stash. In Arboliva's Forest, multiple Oran Berry trees appeared in Arboliva's Forest. More Oran Berries were seen in the same forest in the next episode. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate! In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate!, Team Go-Getters used an Oran Berry to restore Pichu's health, and later split another one to restore each member of Team Meanies. In Blossom's Dream, a wild Nidoran♂ was eating a bunch of Oran Berries when he was attacked by a wild Arbok. He later ate another Oran Berry while next to Blossom. In Jō VS Team Rocket, Jō tried to give the red Gyarados some Oran Berries after it had become tired from battling, but it refused to take any. In Nixing Nuzleaf, Ruby picked some Oran Berries from a Berry tree. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including an Oran Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, an Oran Berry appeared among the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, an Oran Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. In The Final Dimensional Duel VII, Cheryl told her Blissey to eat its held Oran Berry while battling Mars's Yanmega, but the Ogre Darner Pokémon used Bug Bite to eat the Berry before Blissey could. In Listening to Pokémon, Black used some Oran Berries and Potions to heal his Pokémon after having a battle with N. In An X-cuse to Come Out and Play, Tierno gave Kanga an Oran Berry to feed her. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Oran Berries were in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. In Hareta's Very First Pokémon Battle!!, Roark gave Hareta an Oran Berry before their battle. Later, Hareta's Piplup managed to avoid being defeated by Roark's Cranidos by eating a piece of the Oran Berry, thus winning the battle for Hareta and earning him the Coal Badge. The following is a list of cards named or holding an Oran Berry. The Oran Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods, a selection of which can be seen below: The blue color scheme of the Oran Berry is the inverse of the color of its namesake, the orange. The Oran Berry's name may be based on oranges. Its design may be based on blueberries.

Title: Persim Berry

A Persim Berry (Japanese: キーのみ Kī Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the Bitter Berry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Persim Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is confused, it will consume its held Persim Berry and cure it of confusion. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it also cures the consumer of confusion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of confusion. This consumes the Persim Berry. In Pokémon Platinum, the player can exchange Persim Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Persim Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Persim Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Persim Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Persim Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Persim Berries can be gathered by Normal-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Persim Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Persim Berries debuted in A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, where they were growing in Dr. White's garden. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Persim Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, a Persim Berry appeared among the Berries that Sapphire collected during her travels. The following is a list of cards named or holding a Persim Berry. The Persim Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. Despite the relationship of this berry to the Bitter Berry from Generation II, both being the Berries that cured confusion, the Persim Berry is not actually bitter. In Generation IV and VIII, bitterness is actually the only flavor that the Persim Berry does not have. The Persim Berry's design and name may be based on persimmons.

Title: Lum Berry

A Lum Berry (Japanese: ラムのみ Lum Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the MiracleBerry from Generation II, having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. In the Generation V games, the Lum Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is affected by any non-volatile status condition or confusion, it will consume its Lum Berry and cure its status condition. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it also cures the consumer of its non-volatile status condition or confusion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures that Pokémon of its non-volatile status condition. This consumes the Lum Berry. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can be used to cure any status condition on a Pokémon, or thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Lum Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Lum Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Pokémon Masters EX, Lum Berries can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. The Lum Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Lum Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Lum Berries can be gathered by Bug-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Lum Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. The Lum Berry appears in Pokémon Pokopia. It grows naturally on Lum Trees. Ditto can consume Lum Berries to restore PP, and they can also be gifted to other Pokémon to restore their energy. In Beating the Bustle and Hustle!, James mentioned that there was Old Gateau and Lum Berries on the menu in the Sinnoh Pokémon Hustle Refreshment Room. Lum Berries physically debuted in Three Sides to Every Story!, where Team Rocket stole some from Lulu. Jessie was planning to use them in battle, but she did not know that Jessie's Yanmega should be the one eating them. Because of this, she ate the Berry herself. In An Egg Scramble!, Khoury was selling Lum Berries at his stall in the Johto Festival. In Crisis at Ferroseed Research!, Professor Malveaux ordered Case to prepare a treatment for Pikachu, which included Lum Berry extract. In Grooming Furfrou!, Jessica presented a couple of Lum Berries. In To Find a Fairy Flower!, a Lum Berry was pictured in a newspaper that Jessie was using to hide from Ash and his friends. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Lum Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways!, Lum Berries were growing in Dr. White's garden. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Lum Berries were at a Pokémon Center. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Lum Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Lum Berries while making a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. In Alola to New Adventure!, Lum Berries were at a Berry market. Lum Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. In The Ol' Raise and Switch!, Lum Berries were part of a meal Lillie gave to Pikachu. In SM064, a Lum Berry was at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In A Plethora of Pikachu!, Lum Berries were at the Pikachu Valley. In Betrayed, Bothered, and Beleaguered!, Pikachu plucked a Lum Berry from a Lum tree, but it was snatched away by a Spearow. Although Mimey was able to retrieve it with Psychic, it remained uneaten as Pikachu had to defend Mimey from a Spearow flock. In The Power of Us, set in a continuity separate from Pokémon the Series, Team Rocket was selling Lum Berries in Fula City. They played a key role in stopping the spread of Effect Spore gas that was causing trouble in the city, after Toren used them to create an improvised cure. In The Treasure After the Storm!, Friede used Lum Berries to calm down a group of angry Pokémon. Multiple Lum Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. In Take a Breath, Eri used a Lum Berry to cure the Revavroom attached to the Caph Starmobile of its confusion after it had been enraged by a wild Squawkabilly. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, Noland's rental Mawile and Emerald's rental Pinsir were both holding a Lum Berry, although neither was used. During Emerald and Noland's battle, Mawile's Lum Berry was swapped with Emerald's rental Linoone's Choice Band by Linoone's Trick. In Moving Past Milotic, Emerald's Starmie was seen curing itself from sleep with its held Lum Berry during Emerald's Battle Pike challenge. In The Final Dimensional Duel VII, Platinum mentioned Lum Berries while telling Palmer about her research on Jupiter's Tangrowth's signature move, Natural Gift. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Moon found a Lum Berry at Lush Jungle during her search for a special Mirage Berry. More Lum Berries were also in the pile of Berries gathered by local Pokémon willing to help her with her search. Lum Berry is a Pokémon Tool card that was first introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese ADV Era, as part of the Treecko, Torchic, and Mudkip Constructed Starter Decks. It was printed in the EX Ruby & Sapphire expansion. If this Trainer card is attached to a Pokémon, and the Pokémon has a Special Condition, that Pokémon recovers from all Special Conditions during Pokémon Checkup. This card has to be discarded afterwards. A reprint of the card in Sword & Shield gave it errata that changes the timing of the effect to the end of each turn, rather than during Pokémon Checkup. The Lum Berry's design and name may be based on the Chinese plum.

Title: Sitrus Berry

A Sitrus Berry (Japanese: オボンのみ Obon Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. It is the spiritual successor of the Gold Berry from Generation II, initially having an identical effect when used on or by a Pokémon. The effect of the Sitrus Berry was later changed in Generation IV so that it restores 25% of the user's max HP. In the Generation V games, the Sitrus Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. When held by a Pokémon, if the holder's HP is below 50% at the end of a turn, it will consume its held Sitrus Berry and restore 30 HP. When held by a Pokémon, if the holder's HP falls below 50%, it will consume its held Sitrus Berry and restore 25% of its maximum HP. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it restore 25% of the consumer's maximum HP. Due to a glitch in Generation V, dropping below half HP by taking self-inflicted damage from confusion will not activate the Sitrus Berry. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores 30 HP to that Pokémon. It is consumed after use. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores the Pokémon's HP by 25% of its maximum HP to that Pokémon. It is consumed after use. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore 50% of its maximum HP. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by 50% of its maximum HP, and can also be thrown near wild Pokémon to draw their attention. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Sitrus Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Sitrus Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Sitrus Berry appears in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series. It is a food item that restores HP. In Red and Blue Rescue Team and Explorers, it will restore 100 HP, and fill Belly by 5. If eaten at full HP, maximum HP will also raise by 2. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon and Rescue Team DX, it will restore 200 HP and fill Belly by 2. If eaten at full HP, it permanently increases max HP by 5. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Sitrus Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. In Pokémon Masters EX, Sitrus Berries can only be used by certain sync pairs who have them as an item move. The Sitrus Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Sitrus Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Sitrus Berries can be gathered by Rock-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Sitrus Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. In Pokémon UNITE, Sitrus Berries appear on all of the game's stages. In the Standard Battle and Ranked Battle stages of Remoat Stadium and Theia Sky Ruins, they appear in pairs just behind the forward-most goal zones of each team. Other stages in the game follow this pattern as well. In Mer Stadium, only one of the two Sitrus Berries is located on the road behind the forward-most goal zones. The other is placed just off of the road, slightly behind the first. While Auroma Park features shared goal zones, two Sitrus Berries still appear near each goal zone, although they are closer to the mouth of the upper left and bottom right corners of the map. Shivre City is an exception, featuring a string of Sitrus Berries on the paths between the goal zones. Eating a Sitrus Berry heals the player who used it. Players are able to eat the Sitrus Berries located on the opponents' side of the map. Most Pokémon are unable to eat Sitrus Berries while at full health, but Greedent is allowed to do so due to its Berry focused moveset. Sitrus Berries respawn after being used when a certain amount of time has passed. However, Sitrus Berries will stop appearing and despawn if the goal zone they are associated with is destroyed. In Just One of the Geysers, Sitrus Berries were among the many food items seen inside Brawly's fridge. In Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, Sitrus Berries were seen among the many other Berries sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. Sitrus Berries appeared in Berry, Berry Interesting. In Cooking Up a Sweet Story!, Sitrus Berries were seen in Abigail's Berry basket. Sitrus Berries appeared in Hungry for the Good Life!. In Promoting Healthy Tangrowth!, a wild Tangrowth that was using Absorb to take energy from Pokémon in order to restore a tree that had been struck by lightning left Sitrus Berries for the Pokémon it attacked. In Purrloin: Sweet or Sneaky?, Sitrus Berries were seen in Ash's backpack. Sitrus Berries appeared in The Beartic Mountain Feud!. In The Island of Illusions!, a Sitrus Berry was seen at a Pokémon Center. In A Shockingly Cheeky Friendship!, Pikachu zapped a Sitrus Berry off of a tree for the hungry Dedenne to eat. In Grooming Furfrou!, Sitrus Berries were seen at a Furfrou grooming salon. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Sitrus Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In Good Friends, Great Training!, Sitrus Berries were seen being eaten by Meowth. In Adventures in Running Errands!, Sitrus Berries were seen at a Pokémon Center. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Sitrus Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In From A to Z!, Pikachu offered a Sitrus Berry to Squishy, but it refused to take it, instead using sunlight as its energy source. In A Fiery Rite of Passage!, Team Rocket tried to use a Sitrus Berry as a lure for a wild Litleo they were trying to catch, but were foiled when Litleo's father, a Pyroar, spotted and scorched them. In A Dancing Debut!, Sitrus Berries were first seen during the Couriway Town Pokémon Showcase and later as a part of Ash and his friends' meal. In A Diamond in the Rough!, Florges tried to use Sitrus Berries to lure out a Carbink causing havoc in the wetlands. However, Carbink managed to snatch the Berries without being noticed. In Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, Sitrus Berries were at the Nebel Plateau. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Sitrus Berries while making a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. In Alola to New Adventure!, a couple of Sitrus Berries were dropped by Tapu Koko. In First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style! and One Journey Ends, Another Begins..., Sitrus Berries were at Anela's store in Hau'oli City. In That's Why the Litten is a Scamp!, Litten was seen with a Sitrus Berry, which an Alolan Persian tried to steal from it. Later in the episode, Litten brought the Berry to an old Stoutland it was living with. Sitrus Berries have made multiple appearances in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den during Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. Sitrus Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. In The Ol' Raise and Switch!, Anela gave Sitrus Berries to Ash's Rowlet, Rockruff, Litten, and Snowy. Snowy was hesitant to have one, until Litten went over to Snowy and gave her one to eat personally. Sitrus Berries appeared in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, when Lana was on her first hunt for treasure on Akala Island. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, where Ash and Pikachu found Sitrus Berries inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. In A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, Sitrus Berries were in the Ultra Guardians' medical kit. Some of these Berries were later used to restore a Snorlax that had been drained by a Buzzwole. In the same episode, Team Rocket was also seen picking up some Sitrus Berries in a forest. Sitrus Berries appeared in the banned episode SM064. In Real Life...Inquire Within!, Sitrus Berries were included in the basket of Berries given to Ash and his classmates' Pokémon by Anela. In Guiding an Awakening!, Tapu Bulu healed Lycanroc with a Sitrus Berry in between the second and third rounds of Ash's grand trial battle with Nanu. In Parallel Friendships!, Dia's Zeraora gave Ash's Pikachu a Sitrus Berry after they had finished their training battle. In Mind-Boggling Dynamax!, a Snorlax jumped up to eat a Sitrus Berry that fell from a tree. The Snorlax spat out a Sitrus seed that later grew into a giant tree on the Sleeping Pokémon's belly once it Gigantamaxed. The tree bore a gigantic Sitrus Berry, which Ash, Goh, Pikachu, and Scorbunny used to get the Snorlax to move away from an oncoming train. In Healing the Healer!, Sitrus Berries were among the Berries Goh gathered for a Suicune and several forest Pokémon to eat. In The Treasure After the Storm!, Sitrus Berries were among one of the Berries that Fuecoco was seen eating from a pile of Berries that had been gathered by the local forest Pokémon in the area. They were later seen being picked by Roy to replenish the upset Pokémon's eaten stash. In HZ127, Dot's Tinkaton and Gholdengo fought over a Sitrus Berry that they had found, only for Dot's Quaxwell to break up the fight by splitting the berry in half. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate! In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Team Go-Getters Out of the Gate!, Sitrus Berries were under the possession of Team Go-Getters. Unfortunately for them, the Sitrus Berries were eaten by Ekans of Team Meanies. In Jō VS Team Rocket, Jō tried to give the red Gyarados some Sitrus Berries after it had tired from battling, but it refused to take any until it saw Jō defending it from Ariana and Petrel. Jō also gave a Sitrus Berry to his Totodile during the battle against the two Executives. In Tripped Up by Torkoal, Ruby took out multiple Berries, including a Sitrus Berry, to be used for Berry Blending. In I Dare Ya, Altaria... Knock Chic off My Shoulder!, a Sitrus Berry appeared amongst the Berries that Sapphire had collected during her travels. In Dramatic Drapion & Crafty Kricketune II, a Sitrus Berry was one of the Berries that Lax flung at the two Scientists who were chasing the group, but the Scientists' Kricketune and Drapion sliced through every single Berry without effort. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Sitrus Berry was seen amongst the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera which Lax had hidden inside its fur. In Interrupting Ivysaur, Platinum's Empoleon, Rapidash, and Lopunny each received a Sitrus Berry during Platinum's Battle Arcade challenge as a result of the Game Board. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Sitrus Berries were in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. In Gathering of the Legendary Pokémon!, Mitsumi brought a bagful of Sitrus Berries to heal Hareta's Pokémon while facing Giratina. To everybody's astonishment, Hareta also gave a Sitrus Berry to the weakened Giratina, not wanting the battle with it be over too quickly. Sitrus Berries were heavily featured in After the Rain, Goomy. Sitrus Berry is a Pokémon Tool card that was first introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese PCG Era, as part of the Golden Sky, Silvery Ocean set. During Pokémon Checkup, if the Pokémon this card is attached to has three or more damage counters on it, Sitrus Berry is discarded to heal 30 damage from them. It was reprinted in Sword & Shield, with errata that changes the timing of the card's check for damage counters and potential healing to occur at the end of each turn. In all generations, Sitrus Berries grow into fruit-bearing trees in double the time it takes for Oran Berries to do the same. This is the most common held item among the Video Game World Championships team's winners. The Sitrus Berry grows on the tree atop the belly of Gigantamax Snorlax, along with the Magost Berry and Haban Berry. The Sitrus Berry's design may be based on the pomelo.

Title: Figy Berry

A Figy Berry (Japanese: フィラのみ Fira Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Figy Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Figy Berry, when held by a Pokémon, will restore ⅛ of its maximum HP when its HP drops to ½ or below, but causes confusion to Pokémon that dislike the spicy flavor. (Specifically, it confuses Pokémon with Modest, Timid, Calm, or Bold Natures.) When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it restores ⅛ of the consumer's maximum HP, and confuses any consumer that dislikes the spicy flavor. A Figy Berry now restores ½ of the holder's HP when it drops to ¼ or below. The restored amount is decreased to ⅓ of the holder's HP. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore ⅔ of its maximum HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅛ of its maximum HP. It is consumed after use. A Figy Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. A Figy Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅓ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that hates spicy flavors will briefly pause if it eats a Figy Berry. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Figy Berries. The Figy Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Figy Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Figy Berries can be gathered by Ground-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Figy Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Figy Berries debuted in Beheeyem, Duosion, and the Dream Thief!, where Cilan needed them for the spicy meal he was preparing. He was dismayed to realize he did not have any, but Beheeyem brought him some. Later, Cilan used some of the Figy Berries to wake up Meowth. In Mallow and the Forest Teacher!, Figy Berries were seen at Oranguru's house. In Very Vexing Volbeat, Amber had his Volbeat use Trick to swap its Figy Berry with the Blue Orb that Tabitha's Torkoal was carrying. In Grumpy Gliscor, a Figy Berry was one of the Berries that Lax threw at a wild Gliscor attacking the S.S. Sinnoh in order to distract it. In Lucky Lucario II, a Figy Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. In The Delivery of Rotom and the Girl, Moon used a Figy Berry from a Berry tree as a part of her painkiller medicine for Sun's injured foot. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, a Figy Berry was found by Moon at Lush Jungle during her search for a special Mirage Berry. A Figy Berry is one of the Berries featured on the Naughty Mimikyu card sleeves. The Figy Berry's name and design may be based on a common fig.

Title: Wiki Berry

A Wiki Berry (Japanese: ウイのみ Wi Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Wiki Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Wiki Berry, when held by a Pokémon, will restore ⅛ of its maximum HP when its HP drops to ½ or below, but causes confusion to Pokémon that dislike the dry flavor. (Specifically, it confuses Pokémon with Adamant, Jolly, Careful, or Impish Natures.) When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it restores ⅛ of the consumer's maximum HP, and confuses any consumer that dislikes the dry flavor. A Wiki Berry now restores ½ of the holder's HP when it drops to ¼ or below. The restored amount is decreased to ⅓ of the holder's HP. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore ⅔ of its maximum HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅛ of its maximum HP. It is consumed after use. A Wiki Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. A Wiki Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅓ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that hates dry flavors will briefly pause if it eats a Wiki Berry. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Wiki Berries. The Wiki Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Wiki Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Wiki Berries can be gathered by Dark-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Wiki Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Wiki Berries debuted in Beheeyem, Duosion, and the Dream Thief!, where Cilan had some among the many cooking ingredients that he owned. He was dismayed, however, because he needed Figy Berries for his spicy recipe instead. Wiki Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. Wiki Berries have made multiple appearances in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den during Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. In Night of a Thousand Poses!, sliced-up Wiki Berries were a part of Snowy's meal. In Real Life...Inquire Within!, Wiki Berries were included in the basket of Berries given to Ash and his classmates' Pokémon by Anela. In The Young Flame Strikes Back!, Pikachu, Poipole, and Togedemaru were eating a couple of Wiki Berries. Multiple Wiki Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. In Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun I, a Wiki Berry was offered to Ruby's Mightyena, Nana, by Minun. However, since Nana didn't like the Berry's dry taste, it became confused after eating it. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Curry description of the Wiki Berry mentions its "sour flavor", despite actually contributing dry flavor to the curry. The Wiki Berry's name may be based on a kiwifruit, although the design features prominant spikes like a horned melon.

Title: Mago Berry

A Mago Berry (Japanese: マゴのみ Mago Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Mago Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Mago Berry, when held by a Pokémon, will restore ⅛ of its maximum HP when its HP drops to ½ or below, but causes confusion to Pokémon that dislike the sweet flavor. (Specifically, it confuses Pokémon with Brave, Quiet, Sassy, or Relaxed Natures.) When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it restores ⅛ of the consumer's maximum HP, and confuses any consumer that dislikes the sweet flavor. A Mago Berry now restores ½ of the holder's HP when it drops to ¼ or below. The restored amount is decreased to ⅓ of the holder's HP. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore ⅔ of its maximum HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅛ of its maximum HP. It is consumed after use. A Mago Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. A Mago Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅓ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that hates sweet flavors will briefly pause if it eats a Mago Berry. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Mago Berries. The Mago Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Mago Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Mago Berries can be gathered by Psychic-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Mago Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Mago Berries debuted in Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, where Ash was offered some samples to drive away the sour taste from a Nomel Berry that he had tasted earlier. In Crisis at Ferroseed Research!, Professor Malveaux ordered Case to prepare a treatment for Pikachu, which included Mago Berry extract. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Mallow were forced to cross a field of sleeping Fomantis in order to collect a Mago Berry from a Mago tree. In Got Meltan?, Ash's Rowlet tried using a Mago Berry as a replacement for Meltan's lost hex nut, but it was quickly rejected by Meltan. In Healing the Healer!, Mago Berries were among the Berries Goh gathered for a Suicune and several forest Pokémon to eat. Multiple Mago Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. In Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun I, a Mago Berry was offered to Ruby's Mumu by Minun. However, since Mumu didn't like the Berry's sweet taste, it became confused after eating it. In Sneaky Like Shedinja II, Mago Berries were some of the Berries that Emerald's Sceptile sliced with Leaf Blade for its Trainer to eat. In Fussing and Fighting, a Mago Berry was a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. Due to her being distracted by a phone call from Fennel, the Berry was subsequently roasted and eaten by Tepig. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, a Mago Berry was found by Moon at Lush Jungle during her search for a special Mirage Berry. More Mago Berries also appeared in the pile of Berries gathered by local Pokémon willing to help her in her search. Mago Berry is the only Berry whose English name is part of another Berry. The Mago Berry's name and design may be based on a mango.

Title: Aguav Berry

An Aguav Berry (Japanese: バンジのみ Banji Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Aguav Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. An Aguav Berry, when held by a Pokémon, will restore ⅛ of its maximum HP when its HP drops to ½ or below, but causes confusion to Pokémon that dislike the bitter flavor. (Specifically, it confuses Pokémon with Naughty, Rash, Naive, or Lax Natures.) When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it restores ⅛ of the consumer's maximum HP, and confuses any consumer that dislikes the bitter flavor. An Aguav Berry now restores ½ of the holder's HP when it drops to ¼ or below. The restored amount is decreased to ⅓ of the holder's HP. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore ⅔ of its maximum HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅛ of its maximum HP. It is consumed after use. An Aguav Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. An Aguav Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅓ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that hates bitter flavors will briefly pause if it eats an Aguav Berry. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Aguav Berries. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, if a massive mass outbreak is occurring in an area, the player can give 5 Aguav Berries to Mai's Munchlax at any base camp in that area to reveal the Pokémon present in the outbreaks. In Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun I, an Aguav Berry was offered to Ruby's Delcatty, Kiki, by Plusle. However, since Kiki didn't like the Berry's bitter taste, it became confused after eating it. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, Aguav Berries were in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. The Aguav Berry's name and design may be based on a guava.

Title: Iapapa Berry

If you were looking for the character of the day who appeared in Balloons, Brionne, and Belligerence!, see Ida. An Iapapa Berry (Japanese: イアのみ Ia Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Iapapa Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. An Iapapa Berry, when held by a Pokémon, will restore ⅛ of its maximum HP when its HP drops to ½ or below, but causes confusion to Pokémon that dislike the sour flavor. (Specifically, it confuses Pokémon with Lonely, Mild, Gentle, or Hasty Natures.) When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, or Bug Bite, it restores ⅛ of the consumer's maximum HP, and confuses any consumer that dislikes the sour flavor. An Iapapa Berry now restores ½ of the holder's HP when it drops to ¼ or below. The restored amount is decreased to ⅓ of the holder's HP. If the holder has Ripen, it will instead restore ⅔ of its maximum HP. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅛ of its maximum HP. It is consumed after use. An Iapapa Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. An Iapapa Berry now restores the Pokémon's HP by ⅓ of its maximum HP when used from the Bag on a Pokémon. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by ½ of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that hates sour flavors will briefly pause if it eats an Iapapa Berry. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Iapapa Berries. Iapapa Berries debuted in Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, where they were being sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. In Oshawott's Lost Scalchop!, Ash's Oshawott used an Iapapa Berry as a temporary replacement for his lost scalchop. However, it ultimately failed when Ash's Pikachu used Thunderbolt on it, and it was burned and split in half, revealing it to be a stone fruit. Iris and Cilan tasted the Berry afterward and claimed that it brought out the flavor. Iapapa Berries have made multiple appearances in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den during Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. Iapapa Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Pikachu found Iapapa Berries inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. In Real Life...Inquire Within!, Iapapa Berries were included in the basket of Berries given to Ash and his classmates' Pokémon by Anela. Multiple Iapapa Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. Iapapa Berries appeared in What's on Your Mind, Psyduck?. Tyler uses them to make a pot of pie fillings, but Haru accidentally spills it all over the ground while she was chasing after Psyduck. However, Tyler doesn't mind, since he has more Iapapa Berries prepared by Pansear, Pansage, and Panpour. Later, Haru uses an Iapapa Berry as a way to let Psyduck channel its psychic powers in a controlled manner, which it succeeds in by splitting the Berry in half. An Iapapa Berry appeared in Chancing Upon Chingling, being one of the Berries that Diamond and Lax used to slip a Team Galactic Grunt at the Team Galactic HQ so that Diamond could take his clothes and disguise himself as a Grunt. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, multiple Iapapa Berries appeared in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. The Iapapa Berry's name and design may be based on a papaya.

Title: Razz Berry

A Razz Berry (Japanese: ズリのみ Zuri Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Razz Berry also has two variants: the Silver Razz Berry and the Golden Razz Berry. In the Generation V games, the Razz Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. In all core series games apart from Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Razz Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, a Razz Berry can be used from the Bag to make a wild Pokémon easier to catch. This consumes the Razz Berry. If the wild Pokémon breaks out of a Poké Ball, the Berry's effect disappears. A wild Pokémon cannot eat a Berry while another Berry is still in effect. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by 1/3 of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that consumes a Razz Berry will become easier to catch. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Razz Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Razz Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Razz Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Razz Berry was the first Berry made available in Pokémon GO. Feeding it to a wild Pokémon makes it more likely to be caught, adding a ×1.5 multiplier to its catch rate. The Berry's effect lasts until the Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball. Razz Berries can also be fed to Pokémon at Gyms controlled by the player's team to boost their motivation. Razz Berries can be obtained starting from level 8. They are rewarded for leveling up every level from Lv. 8 to 20 and every two levels starting from Lv. 22. In Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun I, Razz Berries were growing on the Abandoned Ship. The Razz Berry's design and name may be based on raspberries.

Title: Bluk Berry

A Bluk Berry (Japanese: ブリーのみ Burī Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Bluk Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Bluk Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Bluk Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Bluk Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Bluk Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: A Bluk Berry is an ingredient that can be used in cooking to attract wild Pokémon in Pokémon Quest. It is considered a blue ingredient that is soft, small, and sweet. Bluk Berry is a possible ingredient that can be obtained by completing expeditions on Tumblecube Island. As they are blue, Bluk Berries are most commonly found in the areas Backforth Brook, Belly Button Cave, and Hushed Highlands. THey can also be obtained randomly by recycling Power Stones. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Bluk Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Bluk Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Bluk Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Bluk Berries can be gathered by Ghost-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Bluk Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Bluk Berries debuted in Now That's Flower Power!, where a Contest expert known as Mr. Big used them in his fireworks displays. However, May's Torchic managed to eat all of his freshly picked Berries, prompting May to search for more. It was also stated in this episode that eating Bluk Berries causes the hair of people and Pokémon to become shinier. Team Rocket overheard this and went in search of some for themselves. In Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, Bluk Berries were being sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. In Berry, Berry Interesting, Bluk Berries were among the ingredients May used for her Pokéblocks. In Cooking Up a Sweet Story!, Bluk Berries were in Abigail's Berry basket. Bluk Berries appeared in Hungry for the Good Life!. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Bluk Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Bluk Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, Bluk Berries were at the Nebel Plateau. Bluk Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. Bluk Berries have made multiple appearances in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den during Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. Bluk Berries appeared in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, when Lana was on her first search for treasure on Akala Island. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, where Ash and Pikachu found Bluk Berries inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. In Real Life...Inquire Within!, Bluk Berries were included in the basket of Berries given to Ash and his classmates' Pokémon by Anela. Bluk Berries appeared in The Tale of You and Glimwood Tangle!, where a trio of Impidimp threw them at Chloe, her Eevee, and a Galarian Ponyta. Multiple Bluk Berries appeared in Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun I, being one of the many kinds of Berries growing on the Abandoned Ship. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Bluk Berry was seen amongst the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera which Lax had hidden inside its fur. In Lucky Lucario II, a Bluk Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. In Getting Past Gastrodon, Jupiter used a Bluk Berry to turn her Tangrowth's Natural Gift into a Fire-type move while battling against Candice's Abomasnow. A Bluk Berry appeared in Fussing and Fighting as a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. The bag description for a Bluk Berry in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire and the Generation VII games state that the Berry is sour. This was fixed in Pokémon Sword and Shield, where it is correctly translated as dry. The Bluk Berry is present in the game data of Pokémon GO, but is unused. The Bluk Berry's design and name may be based on blackberries.

Title: Nanab Berry

A Nanab Berry (Japanese: ナナのみ Nana Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Nanab Berry also has two variants: the Silver Nanab Berry and the Golden Nanab Berry. In the Generation V games, the Nanab Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. In all core series games apart from Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Nanab Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, a Nanab Berry can be used from the Bag to reduce the chances of a wild Pokémon moving when catching. This consumes the Nanab Berry. If the wild Pokémon breaks out of a Poké Ball, the Berry's effect disappears. A wild Pokémon cannot eat a Berry while another Berry is still in effect. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by 1/3 of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that consumes a Nanab Berry will move slower in the overworld. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Nanab Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Nanab Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Nanab Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: The Nanab Berry was added to Pokémon GO on February 16, 2017. Prior to December 2, 2020, using a Nanab Berry on a wild Pokémon made it only 5% as likely to attack or dodge, making it easier to hit it with a Poké Ball. From December 2, 2020, onward, the Nanab Berry fully removes any possibility that the Pokémon might deflect or dodge the Poké Ball. The Berry's effect lasts until the Pokémon breaks out of a thrown ball. When fed to a Gym defender, a Nanab Berry restores motivation 25% more than a Razz or Pinap Berry does. Nanab Berries are obtainable starting at level 4. They are rewarded for leveling up every 4 levels, starting from level 23. Nanab Berries can also be repeatably obtained from In Pokémon UNITE, Nanab Berries appear in the pile of Berries that Greedent crashes into during its Unite Move, Berry Belly Flop. Nanab Berries debuted in Slaking Kong, where they were among the Berries that Team Rocket made a group of wild Aipom bring them. In Ka Boom with a View!, Spenser's Venusaur knocked a Nanab Berry off a tree after it slid into it. Later, Spenser offered some of the Nanab Berries from the same tree for Ash, Pikachu, and Swellow to eat. In Cooking Up a Sweet Story!, Nanab Berries were in Abigail's Berry basket. Nanab Berries appeared in Hungry for the Good Life!. In The Name's N!, Nanab Berries were briefly seen on top of some special Pokémon food that Cilan had whipped up. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Nanab Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In So You're Having a Bad Day!, Bonnie and Meowth found a Nanab Berry tree. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Nanab Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Nanab Berries while making a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. In Episode 4 of Where Are You Going, Eevee?, an Eevee found a Nanab Berry tree soon after arriving on Melemele Island. It climbed up to it and shook its trunk, subsequently shaking down several Nanab Berries for it to eat. Multiple other Nanab trees appeared in Episode 6 of Where Are You Going, Eevee?, where Eevee shared some Nanab Berries with Pikachu and his friends. In A Snow Day for Searching!, Ash and Goh used a Nanab Berry as a bait to lure in a group of wild Mankey. In Healing the Healer!, Nanab Berries were among the Berries Goh gathered for a Suicune and several forest Pokémon to eat. In The Dusk Ball That Wouldn't Open, Ult and Ryan got into an argument over which of them would get to have the Nanab Berries from a tree, since Ult wanted to eat them and Ryan needed them for his Grafaiai, but they were soon both driven away by the owner's Mabosstiff. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Nanab Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. The Nanab Berry's design and name may be based on bananas.

Title: Wepear Berry

A Wepear Berry (Japanese: セシナのみ Seshina Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Wepear Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Wepear Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Wepear Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Wepear Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Wepear Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out a Wepear Berry from Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. The Wepear Berry is present in the game data of Pokémon GO, but it is unused. The Wepear Berry's design and name may be based on the common pear.

Title: Pinap Berry

A Pinap Berry (Japanese: パイルのみ Pairu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Pinap Berry also has two variants: the Silver Pinap Berry and the Golden Pinap Berry. In the Generation V games, the Pinap Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. In all core series games apart from Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Pinap Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, a Pinap Berry can be used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon to increase the chances of getting more item rewards for catching Pokémon. This consumes the Pinap Berry. If the wild Pokémon breaks out of a Poké Ball, the Berry's effect disappears. A wild Pokémon cannot eat a Berry while another Berry is still in effect. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it restores the Pokémon's HP by 1/3 of its maximum HP. A wild Pokémon that consumes a Pinap Berry will yield more Exp. Points when caught. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Pinap Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Pinap Berries. The Pinap Berry was added to Pokémon GO on February 16, 2017. Using a Pinap Berry on a wild Pokémon will make it give twice as much Candy if it is caught. The Berry's effect lasts until the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball. Feeding a Pinap Berry to a Gym defender increases its motivation by the same amount as a Razz Berry does. Pinap Berries can be obtained starting at level 18. They are also rewarded for leveling up every 4 levels starting at level 21. Pinap Berries have also appeared in limited-time boxes in the Shop. In addition, Pinap Berries can be repeatably obtained from Completing certain Field Research or Special Research tasks Pinap Berries debuted in Mallow and the Forest Teacher!, where they were used by Abe and a wild Oranguru to make Pinap Juice. In SM064, a Pinap Berry was at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In That New Old Gang of Mine!, Mallow was seen holding a Pinap Berry along with some Honey. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Pinap Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. The Pinap Berry has been featured in the illustration of the Brilliant Stars Chimchar card. The Pinap Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The Pinap Berry's design and name may be based on a pineapple.

Title: Pomeg Berry

A Pomeg Berry (Japanese: ザロクのみ Zaroku Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Pomeg Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Pomeg Berry cannot be used directly and only has a use as an ingredient for Pokéblocks. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, excluding Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the Pomeg Berry can be used from the Bag on a Pokémon to increase the Pokémon's friendship (+10 at friendship 0-99, +5 at friendship 100-199, +1SwSh-/+2E-USUM at friendship 200-254) and lowers its HP EVs by ten points (but not below 0). In Generation IV only, this Berry reduces the EV to 100 if it was above 110 when used. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Pomeg Berries. While the Pomeg Berry itself has never been featured in animation, its flowers appeared in The Grass-Type is Always Greener!. Ash, his friends, and Cheryl found a Combee residing near them, thus giving them their first lead to the Amber Castle. In A Conk on Cranidos's Cranium, a Pomeg Berry was a part of Diamond and Pearl's manzai routine. In the Chuang Yi translation, it was referred to as a Rowap Berry instead. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Pomeg Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. Due to its ability to lower a Pokémon's HP EVs, it is famous for the Pomeg glitch, which can lower the HP of a Pokémon which has low HP so that it underflows. The glitch occurs in Pokémon Emerald, Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. The Pomeg Berry's design and name may be based on a pomegranate.

Title: Kelpsy Berry

A Kelpsy Berry (Japanese: ネコブのみ Nekobu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Kelpsy Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Kelpsy Berry cannot be used directly and only has a use as an ingredient for Pokéblocks. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, excluding Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the Kelpsy Berry can be used from the Bag on a Pokémon to increase the Pokémon's friendship (+10 at friendship 0-99, +5 at friendship 100-199, +1SwSh-/+2E-USUM at friendship 200-254) and lowers its Attack EVs by ten points (but not below 0). In Generation IV only, this Berry reduces the EV to 100 if it was above 110 when used. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Kelpsy Berry for an Iron if the Favor Lady asks for 'something whamish' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Kelpsy Berries. A Kelpsy Berry debuted in The Brockster Is In!, where Ash found it while looking for a Pecha Berry needed to cure a group of poisoned Pokémon. Kelpsy Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Kelpsy Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. The Kelpsy Berry's name may be based on kelp, and its design may be based on kelp, vanilla, or tick clover fruit.

Title: Qualot Berry

A Qualot Berry (Japanese: タポルのみ Taporu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Qualot Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Qualot Berry cannot be used directly and only has a use as an ingredient for Pokéblocks. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, excluding Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the Qualot Berry can be used from the Bag on a Pokémon to increase the Pokémon's friendship (+10 at friendship 0-99, +5 at friendship 100-199, +1SwSh-/+2E-USUM at friendship 200-254) and lowers its Defense EVs by ten points (but not below 0). In Generation IV only, this Berry reduces the EV to 100 if it was above 110 when used. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Qualot Berries. Qualot Berries appeared in Another Day with Gardevoir. Qualot Berries have been featured in the artwork of the following cards: The Qualot Berry's name may be based on a loquat, and its design may be based on a loquat or a kumquat.

Title: Hondew Berry

A Hondew Berry (Japanese: ロメのみ Rome Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Hondew Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Hondew Berry cannot be used directly and only has a use as an ingredient for Pokéblocks. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, excluding Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the Hondew Berry can be used from the Bag on a Pokémon to increase the Pokémon's friendship (+10 at friendship 0-99, +5 at friendship 100-199, +1SwSh-/+2E-USUM at friendship 200-254) and lowers its Sp. Atk EVs by ten points (but not below 0). In Generation IV only, this Berry reduces the EV to 100 if it was above 110 when used. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Hondew Berries. In Sneaky Like Shedinja II, Emerald's Sceptile sliced some Hondew Berries with Leaf Blade so its Trainer could eat them. In The Final Dimensional Duel VII, Jupiter used a Hondew Berry to turn her Tangrowth's Natural Gift into a Ground-type move while battling against Marley's Arcanine. The Hondew Berry's design and name may be based on the honeydew melon.

Title: Grepa Berry

A Grepa Berry (Japanese: ウブのみ Ubu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Grepa Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Grepa Berry cannot be used directly and only has a use as an ingredient for Pokéblocks. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, excluding Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the Grepa Berry can be used from the Bag on a Pokémon to increase the Pokémon's friendship (+10 at friendship 0-99, +5 at friendship 100-199, +1SwSh-/+2E-USUM at friendship 200-255) and lowers its Sp. Def EVs by ten points (but not below 0). In Generation IV only, this Berry reduces the EV to 100 if it is above 110 when used. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Grepa Berry for a Protein if the Favor Lady asks for 'something slippery' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. A Grepa Berry can also be exchanged for a Calcium if the Favor Lady asks for 'something roundish'. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Grepa Berries. The Grepa Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Grepa Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Grepa Berries can be gathered by Electric-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Grepa Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. In Three Sides to Every Story!, Lulu was seen growing Grepa Berries in her garden along with several other kinds of Berries. The Spiky-eared Pichu, who appeared in Arceus and the Jewel of Life, is known to love Grepa Berries, as demonstrated in the Get Fired Up, Spiky-eared Pichu! ending song. In One Journey Ends, Another Begins..., Grepa Berries were among the Berries Anela had at her market in Hau'oli City. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Pikachu found Grepa Berries, along with other kinds of Berries, inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while searching for a Miracle Seed that could be used as a dish ingredient. In Acting True to Form!, Grepa Berries were seen in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den. In the banned episode SM064, Grepa Berries were at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In The Young Flame Strikes Back!, a Grepa Berry was included in Pikachu, Poipole, and Togedemaru's meal. In Sours for the Sweet!, Grepa Berries were used as a key ingredient in Ulu's bread. Multiple Grepa Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. A Grepa Berry appeared in Chancing Upon Chingling, being one of the Berries that Diamond and Lax used to slip a Team Galactic Grunt at the Team Galactic HQ so that Diamond could take his clothes and disguise himself as a Grunt. The Grepa Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The Grepa Berry's name may be based on a grape, but its design may be based on a radish.

Title: Tamato Berry

A Tamato Berry (Japanese: マトマのみ Matoma Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Tamato Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Tamato Berry cannot be used directly and only has a use as an ingredient for Pokéblocks. From Pokémon Emerald onwards, excluding Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, the Tamato Berry can be used from the Bag on a Pokémon to increase the Pokémon's friendship (+10 at friendship 0-99, +5 at friendship 100-199, +1SwSh-/+2E-USUM at friendship 200-255) and lowers its Speed EVs by ten points (but not below 0). In Generation IV only, this Berry reduces the EV to 100 if it was above 110 when used. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Tamato Berry for an HP Up if the Favor Lady asks for 'something pointy' in the Lilycove Pokémon Center. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Tamato Berries. Tamato Berries served a comical purpose in The Lotad Lowdown and Berry, Berry Interesting, where several characters, including Team Rocket and Ash, would come across one and try to eat it, only to be overwhelmed by its extreme spiciness, which resulted in swollen lips for a while. In Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, Tamato Berries were seen among the many other Berries sold at the Lilycove Berry Market. In Shocks and Bonds, Brock mentioned that an Ace Trainer named Katie, who battled Ash in the Ever Grande Conference, likes Tamato Berries in her spaghetti. In Cooking Up a Sweet Story!, some Tamato Berries were seen in Abigail's Berry basket. In Three Sides to Every Story!, Lulu was seen growing some Tamato Berries in her garden along with several other kinds of Berries. In Double-Time Battle Training!, Candice said a treat called the "Snowpoint Tamato Berry Ice Cream Bar" had cold ice cream outside and spicy Tamato Berry jelly on the inside. Ash accidentally ate the bar whole, while Dawn based her Flame Ice combination on it. In PK23, Piplup showed Meloetta, Pikachu, and Snivy a Tamato Berry plant during their search for a Rinka Berry, certain that it was a Rinka plant. When they told Piplup it was the wrong plant, Piplup stubbornly ate a Tamato Berry on it, only to find that it was too spicy. Meowth and Wobbuffet, who were following Meloetta, found the Berries and decided to eat them, only to be overwhelmed by its spiciness as well. In Grooming Furfrou!, Tamato Berries were seen at Sherman's Furfrou grooming salon. In To Find a Fairy Flower!, a Tamato Berry was pictured in a newspaper that Jessie was using to hide from Ash and his friends. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Tamato Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In Performing with Fiery Charm!, Jessie used Tamato Berries as a part of her Dendemille Town Showcase performance. In Hoopa and the Clash of Ages, Hoopa replaced a donut that it took with a Tamato Berry. It was then blindly picked up and tasted by Chespin, who was immediately overwhelmed by the Berry's extremely spicy taste. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Tamato Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!, a Tamato Berry was seen among the Berries Anela offered to Litten. Tamato Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. Tamato Berries appeared in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, when Lana was on her first hunt for treasure on Akala Island. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Pikachu found Tamato Berries, along with other kinds of Berries, inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. In Acting True to Form!, an Alolan Meowth shoved a Tamato Berry into Team Rocket's Meowth's mouth to shut him up, immediately overwhelming him with its spiciness and causing him to wind up with swollen lips for a moment. Tamato Berries appeared in A Recipe for Success!, where Meowth accidentally ate one of them. In Crowning the Chow Crusher!, Goh had his Skwovet pull a Tamato Berry from its tail and squeeze the juice over its Pecha Tart so that it could finish the meal and move on in the Pokémon Grand Eating Contest. Multiple Tamato Berries appeared in The Future I Choose. In Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun II, Courtney used the Tamato Berry juice she had put on her gloves to temporarily blind Sapphire. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Tamato Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass dug out of Lax's fur with its Mini-Noses while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. In Grumpy Gliscor, a Tamato Berry was one of the Berries that Lax threw at a wild Gliscor attacking the S.S. Sinnoh in order to distract it. In Lucky Lucario II, Tamato Berries was seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. A Tamato Berry appeared in Fussing and Fighting as a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. In Homecoming and the Brilliant Professional Golfer, multiple Tamato Berries appeared in the pile of Berries gathered by a group of Pokémon at Lush Jungle while helping Moon in her search for a special Mirage Berry. The Tamato Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The Tamato Berry is the only one of the EV-reducing Berries that did not have the same growth time or Berry yield as the rest in Generation III. The Tamato Berry's design and name may be based on a tomato. Its design may also be based on a horned melon, or the texture seen on some chili pepper cultivars such as the Carolina Reaper.

Title: Cornn Berry

A Cornn Berry (Japanese: モコシのみ Mokoshi Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Cornn Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Cornn Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Cornn Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Cornn Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Cornn Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Stunning Staravia & Stinky Skuntank I, a Cornn Berry fell out of Lax's fur when the Advanced level Grunt's Gible hit him with Dragon Rush. The Cornn Berry's design and name may be based on corn or broomcorn.

Title: Magost Berry

A Magost Berry (Japanese: ゴスのみ Gosu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Magost Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Magost Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Magost Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Magost Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Magost Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: Multiple Magost Berries debuted in Currying Favor and Flavor!. Ash and Pikachu found them stashed inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. Multiple Magost Berries appeared in A Pokémon to Help Me!. Haru uses them as cooking ingredients by roasting them to Pansear's preferred doneness. Later, Haru enlists the help of Shinx and Luxray in cooking the Berries, which they accomplish using their electric powers. In Sneaky Like Shedinja II, Emerald's Sudowoodo made some Magost Berry juice for her Trainer to drink. In Stunning Staravia & Stinky Skuntank I, a Magost Berry was one of the Berries that fell out of Lax's fur when the Advanced level Grunt's Gible hit it with Dragon Rush. In The Final Dimensional Duel VII, Jupiter used a Magost Berry to turn her Tangrowth's Natural Gift into a Rock-type move while battling against Marley's Arcanine. In Fussing and Fighting, a Magost Berry was a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. The Magost Berry grows on the tree atop the belly of Gigantamax Snorlax, along with the Sitrus Berry and Haban Berry. The Magost Berry's design and name may be based on mangosteen.

Title: Rabuta Berry

A Rabuta Berry (Japanese: ラブタのみ Rabuta Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Rabuta Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Rabuta Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Rabuta Berry for an HP Up if the Favor Lady asks for 'something pointy' in the Lilycove Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Rabuta Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Rabuta Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Rabuta Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Chancing Upon Chingling, Diamond and Lax slipped a Rabuta Berry to a Team Galactic Grunt at the Team Galactic HQ so that Diamond could take his clothes and disguise himself as a Grunt. The Rabuta Berry's design and name may be based on rambutans.

Title: Nomel Berry

A Nomel Berry (Japanese: ノメルのみ Nomel Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Nomel Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Nomel Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Nomel Berry for an Iron if the Favor Lady asks for 'something wham-ish' in the Lilycove City Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Nomel Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Nomel Berries. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can exchange Nomel Berries for Stickers at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop: In Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry, slices of a Nomel Berry were handed out as free samples. Pikachu liked it, but Ash was overwhelmed by its sourness. In PK23, Oshawott showed Meloetta, Pikachu, and Snivy a Nomel Berry plant in their search for a Rinka Berry, certain that it was a Rinka plant. When they told Oshawott it was the wrong plant, Oshawott stubbornly ate a Nomel Berry, only to find it was too sour. Meowth and Wobbuffet, who were following Meloetta, found the Berries and decided to eat them, only to be overwhelmed by its sourness. In The Ol' Raise and Switch!, Nomel Berries were a part of a meal Lillie gave to Pikachu. In SM064, a Nomel Berry was at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. A Nomel Berry appeared in Chancing Upon Chingling, being one of the Berries that Diamond and Lax used to slip a Team Galactic Grunt at the Team Galactic HQ so that Diamond could take his clothes and disguise himself as a Grunt. A Nomel Berry appeared in Fussing and Fighting as a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. The Nomel Berry's design and name may be based on lemons.

Title: Spelon Berry

A Spelon Berry (Japanese: ノワキのみ Nowaki Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Spelon Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Spelon Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Spelon Berry for an HP Up if the Favor Lady asks for 'something pointy' in the Lilycove Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Spelon Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Spelon Berries. In Celebrating the Hero's Comet!, Meowth ate a Spelon Berry that Alexa had intended to give to her Noivern, causing a similar mouth-burning effect as a Tamato Berry. She also fed one to Noivern, who seemed to enjoy its spicy flavor. She was also seen feeding Noivern a Spelon Berry in The Dream Continues!. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Spelon Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In Performing with Fiery Charm!, Jessie used Spelon Berries as a part of her Dendemille Town Showcase performance. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Spelon Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In One Journey Ends, Another Begins..., Spelon Berries were among the Berries Anela had at her market in Hau'oli City. In The Ol' Raise and Switch!, Spelon Berries were a part of a meal Lillie gave to Pikachu. Multiple Spelon Berries appeared in Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun I, being one of the many kinds of Berries growing on the Abandoned Ship. Ruby tried to send Mumu to pick up some of them, but the Mudfish Pokémon was attacked by a wild Plusle and Minun living on the ship while trying to do so. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Spelon Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. The Spelon Berry's design and name may be based on a horned melon, also known as a spiked melon.

Title: Pamtre Berry

A Pamtre Berry (Japanese: シーヤのみ Shīya Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Pamtre Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Pamtre Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Pamtre Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Pamtre Berries. The Pamtre Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Pamtre Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Pamtre Berries can be gathered by Flying-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Pamtre Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. Pamtre Berries appear in the Pokémon Concierge episode Is That Really the Best Option?. They are prepared as drinks by cutting them open, revealing their hollow husks. A Pamtre Berry plant also appears in the same episode, having the appearance of a real-world palm tree, unlike in the core series games. In Dramatic Drapion & Crafty Kricketune II, a Pamtre Berry was one of the Berries that Lax flung at the two Scientists chasing the group, but the Scientists' Kricketune and Drapion sliced through every single Berry without effort. The Pamtre Berry's tag in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald states that it is thought to grow somewhere other than Hoenn. However, to this day, naturally occuring Pamtre Berries cannot be found in any game. The Pamtre Berry's design and name may be based on a palm nut and a palm tree, respectively.

Title: Watmel Berry

A Watmel Berry (Japanese: カイスのみ Kaisu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Watmel Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Watmel Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Watmel Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Watmel Berries. In PK23, Snivy used a Watmel Berry from a Watmel Berry plant to lead a Snorlax away from the hole which the Rinka Berry fell into, as it had rolled on top of the hole. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Watmel Berries while making a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. In One Journey Ends, Another Begins..., Watmel Berries were among the Berries Anela had at her market in Hau'oli City. In Mallow and the Forest Teacher!, Watmel Berries were seen at a wild Oranguru's house. In Sneaky Like Shedinja II, a Watmel Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Emerald's Sceptile sliced with Leaf Blade for its Trainer to eat. In Stunning Staravia & Stinky Skuntank I, a Watmel Berry was one of the Berries that fell out of Lax's fur when the Advanced level Grunt's Gible hit it with Dragon Rush. When the Grunt stepped down from the shelf he was standing on, he accidentally stepped on the Watmel Berry and slipped, causing him to drop Platinum's Pokédex he had tried to steal. In Dramatic Drapion & Crafty Kricketune II, a Watmel Berry was one of the Berries that Lax flung at the two Scientists who were chasing the group, but the Scientists' Kricketune and Drapion sliced through every single Berry without effort. In Lucky Lucario II, a Watmel Berry was seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. Its description claims that it can grow over 20 inches (50 cm), making it the largest Berry; however, ones the player obtains are only 9.8 inches (25 cm), behind several Berries such as the Belue Berry—the largest Berry, at 11.8 inches (30.0 cm). The Watmel Berry's design and name may be based on a watermelon.

Title: Durin Berry

A Durin Berry (Japanese: ドリのみ Dori Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Durin Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Durin Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can exchange a Durin Berry for an HP Up if the Favor Lady asks for 'something pointy' in the Lilycove Pokémon Center. A Durin Berry can also be exchanged for an Iron if the Favor Lady asks for 'something wham-ish'. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Durin Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Durin Berries. The Durin Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Durin Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Durin Berries can be gathered by Grass-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Durin Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. In The Brockster Is In!, Dawn found a Durin Berry while looking for a Pecha Berry. Later, Brock used Durin Berries and Oran Berries to make an energy drink for a poisoned Pichu. In Battling With a Clean Slate!, Ash and his friends used Durin Berries while making a feast at Professor Sycamore's laboratory. Durin Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. Durin Berries have made multiple appearances in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den, including The Sun, the Scare, the Secret Lair!, Getting to Know You!, Mimikyu Unmasked!, and Acting True to Form!. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Pikachu found Durin Berries, along with other kinds of Berries, inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. In SM064, Durin Berries were at the nest of a group of wild Passimian. In Real Life...Inquire Within!, Durin Berries were included in the basket of Berries given to Ash and his classmates' Pokémon by Anela. In A Recipe for Success!, Mallow served a group of Fearow a meal consisting of Durin and Belue Berries whilst helping out at Oranguru's place. A Durin Berry appeared in Chancing Upon Chingling, being one of the Berries that Diamond and Lax used to slip a Team Galactic Grunt at the Team Galactic HQ so that Diamond could take his clothes and disguise himself as a Grunt. In The Final Dimensional Duel VII, Jupiter used a Durin Berry to turn her Tangrowth's Natural Gift into a Water-type move while battling against Marley's Arcanine. The Durin Berry's design and name may be based on a durian.

Title: Belue Berry

A Belue Berry (Japanese: ベリブのみ Beribu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Belue Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $500. Belue Berries cannot be used directly and only have a use as an ingredient, such as for Pokéblocks and Poffins. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the player can exchange Belue Berries for accessories at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the player can exchange: In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Belue Berries. The Belue Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Belue Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Belue Berries can be gathered by Steel-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Belue Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. The Belue Berry debuted in Aipom and Circumstance!, where Hank was holding it in his pack. He used its sourness to help Ash's Aipom remove a crown that was stuck on her head. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Belue Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. A Belue Berry appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. In Acting True to Form!, a Belue Berry was seen in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den. In A Recipe for Success!, Mallow realized that a group of Fearow liked a Belue Berry whilst helping out at Oranguru's place. Afterwards, Mallow prepared them a meal of Belue and Durin Berries. In A Test in Paradise!, two Dragonite were seen gathering Belue Berries on Dragonite Island. In Lucky Lucario II, Belue Berries were seen amongst the Berries that Diamond used while making food for himself, his Pokémon, and Riley while training at Iron Island. Tru used Razor Leaf to cut them into small pieces, after which Lax dumped the pieces into a pot. The Belue Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. Belue Berries are seen on the Poké Lid #125 located in Tomiya, Japan. At a size of 11.8 inches (30.0 cm), it is the largest Berry the player can obtain. However, while Watmel Berries are listed as 9.8" (25.0 cm) on their tags, the Watmel Berry tag descriptions mention that some have been found to grow to 20" (50 cm) The Belue Berry's name may be based on a blueberry, although the design's shape may be based on Solanum melongena (called eggplant or aubergine depending on region).

Title: Occa Berry

An Occa Berry (Japanese: オッカのみ Occa Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Occa Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Fire-type attack, it will consume its held Occa Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Occa Berries. Occa Berry is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Stellar Miracle expansion and the English Stellar Crown expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The Occa Berry card has a one-time effect of reducing attack damage from an opponent's (Fire-type) Pokémon done to the Pokémon it is attached to by 60. After its effect is applied, the Occa Berry is discarded. The Occa Berry has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The Occa Berry's design and name may be based on cacao, specifically, the cacao fruit pod.

Title: Passho Berry

A Passho Berry (Japanese: イトケのみ Itoke Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Passho Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Water-type attack, it will consume its held Passho Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Passho Berries. Passho Berries debuted in A Battle by Any Other Name!. Ash, his friends, and Miette picked some up to be used as Poké Puff ingredients in the Poké Puff Contest. In To Find a Fairy Flower!, a Passho Berry was pictured in a newspaper that Jessie was using to hide from Ash and his friends. In The Forest Champion!, an Ursaring stole Passho and Liechi Berries from a group of forest Pokémon. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Passho Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Passho Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. Passho Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. In the banned episode SM064, a Passho Berry was in a Passimian nest. In Tackling Tangrowth, Jupiter used a Passho Berry to turn her Tangrowth's Natural Gift into a Water-type move, allowing it to swiftly defeat Platinum's Rapidash. Passho Berry is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Paradise Dragona subset and the English Surging Sparks expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The Passho Berry card has a one-time effect of reducing attack damage from an opponent's (Water-type) Pokémon done to the Pokémon it is attached to by 60. After its effect is applied, the Passho Berry is discarded. The Passho Berry's design and name may be based on a passion fruit.

Title: Wacan Berry

A Wacan Berry (Japanese: ソクノのみ Sokuno Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Wacan Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Electric-type attack, it will consume its held Wacan Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Wacan Berries. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Wacan Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Wacan Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. The following gallery is of cards named or holding a Wacan Berry. The Wacan Berry's design may be based on a candle tree. Its name may be based on a candle tree or a wax candle.

Title: Rindo Berry

Rindo redirects here. For the character whose Japanese name is Rindō, see Florinda Showers. A Rindo Berry (Japanese: リンドのみ Rindo Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Rindo Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Grass-type attack, it will consume its held Rindo Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Rindo Berries. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Rindo Berries can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. The Rindo Berry's design may be based on a loment or the pod of a tamarind, a pea or a soy bean. Its name may be based on a tamarind.

Title: Yache Berry

A Yache Berry (Japanese: ヤチェのみ Yache Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Yache Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Ice-type attack, it will consume its held Yache Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Yache Berries. The Yache Berry is available in Pokémon Sleep as one of the Berries that can be gathered by helper Pokémon and fed to Snorlax. Yache Berries raise Snorlax's Strength, doubling the effect if the Berry is Snorlax's favorite. The base amount of Strength raised by the Berry is determined by the level of the helper Pokémon that gathered it. Yache Berries can be gathered by Dragon-type helper Pokémon in the player's team. Like all Berries in the game, gathered Yache Berries do not go into the player's inventory and instead are immediately eaten by Snorlax. The Yache Berry's design and name may be based on a cherimoya.

Title: Chople Berry

A Chople Berry (Japanese: ヨプのみ Yop Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Chople Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Fighting-type attack, it will consume its held Chople Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Chople Berries. A Chople Berry is one of the Berries featured on the Naughty Mimikyu card sleeves. The Chople Berry's design and name may be based on a wax apple.

Title: Kebia Berry

A Kebia Berry (Japanese: ビアーのみ Biah Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Kebia Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Poison-type attack, it will consume its held Kebia Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Kebia Berries. In Grumpy Gliscor, a Kebia Berry was one of the Berries that Lax threw at a wild Gliscor attacking the S.S. Sinnoh in order to distract it. The Kebia Berry's design and name may be based on an akebia.

Title: Shuca Berry

A Shuca Berry (Japanese: シュカのみ Shuca Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Shuca Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Ground-type attack, it will consume its held Shuca Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Shuca Berries. In The Guardian's Challenge!, a Shuca Berry was seen as a part of the meal Mallow made for Ash and his classmates' Pokémon. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Shuca Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. In Fussing and Fighting, a Shuca Berry was a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. The Shuca Berry's design and name may be based on a cashew.

Title: Coba Berry

A Coba Berry (Japanese: バコウのみ Baco Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Coba Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Flying-type attack, it will consume its held Coba Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Coba Berries. In The Guardian's Challenge!, a Coba Berry was seen as a part of the meal that Mallow made for Ash and his classmates' Pokémon. The Coba Berry's design and name may be based on a babaco.

Title: Payapa Berry

A Payapa Berry (Japanese: ウタンのみ Utan Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Payapa Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Psychic-type attack, it will consume its held Payapa Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Payapa Berries. In The Guardian's Challenge!, a Payapa Berry was seen as a part of the meal Mallow made for Ash and his classmates' Pokémon. Multiple Payapa Berries appear in the I'm a Role Model Now?. They were collected in a basket, but a headache from Haru's Psyduck caused them to be levitated in the air, and Haru had to catch them all as they fall back down. In Rrmbll!! Serious Tower Battle, Henry gave Kubfu a Payapa Berry to hold while challenging the Tower of Waters, allowing it to survive a super effective Zen Headbutt from a Psyduck and then defeat it. Payapa Berry is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Stellar Miracle expansion and the English Stellar Crown expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The Payapa Berry card has a one-time effect of reducing attack damage from an opponent's (Psychic-type) Pokémon done to the Pokémon it is attached to by 60. After its effect is applied, the Payapa Berry is discarded. While the Payapa Berry's name in most languages evoke the papaya, its design and names in Japanese and Chinese suggest it may be based on the calabash instead.

Title: Tanga Berry

A Tanga Berry (Japanese: タンガのみ Tanga Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Tanga Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Bug-type attack, it will consume its held Tanga Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Tanga Berries. A Tanga Berry is one of the Berries featured on the Naughty Mimikyu card sleeves. The Tanga Berry's design and name may be based on a pitanga.

Title: Charti Berry

A Charti Berry (Japanese: ヨロギのみ Yorogi Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Charti Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Rock-type attack, it will consume its held Charti Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Charti Berries. In Grumpy Gliscor, a Charti Berry was one of the Berries that Lax threw at a wild Gliscor attacking the S.S. Sinnoh in order to distract it. The Charti Berry's design and name may be based on a Chinese artichoke.

Title: Kasib Berry

A Kasib Berry (Japanese: カシブのみ Kasib Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Kasib Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Ghost-type attack, it will consume its held Kasib Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Kasib Berries. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring a Kasib Berry in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Kasib Berry's design may be based on a Buddha's hand.

Title: Haban Berry

A Haban Berry (Japanese: ハバンのみ Haban Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Haban Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Dragon-type attack, it will consume its held Haban Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Haban Berries. Haban Berries debuted in Tasting the Bitter with the Sweet!, where they played a notable role. As children, Mallow and Lana had gotten lost in a forest, but they were found by a Drampa named Grandpa Forest, who gave them Haban Berries to eat. In the present day, Harper and Sarah also encountered Drampa and brought some Haban Berries home for Lana to see, reminding Mallow and Lana of their experience. Ash, Mallow, and Lana went looking for Drampa to thank it, and eventually found it near a Haban tree. After dealing with Team Rocket trying to capture Drampa, the group ate some Haban Berries from the tree, despite being aware of their bittersweet taste. In Why Not Give Me a Z-Ring Sometime?, a Drampa on Ula'ula Island was seen gathering Haban Berries, only to have them stolen by an item-stealing Gengar called the Greedy Rapooh. In A Recipe for Success!, Mallow made some Haban Berry juice for Grandpa Forest when it came to visit Oranguru's place. In Grumpy Gliscor, a Haban Berry was one of the Berries that Lax threw at a wild Gliscor attacking the S.S. Sinnoh in order to distract it. Main article: Haban Berry (Prismatic Evolutions 111) Haban Berry is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Terastal Fest ex subset and the English Prismatic Evolutions special expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The Haban Berry card has a one-time effect of reducing attack damage from an opponent's (Dragon-type) Pokémon done to the Pokémon it is attached to by 60. After its effect is applied, the Haban Berry is discarded. The Haban Berry grows on the tree atop the belly of Gigantamax Snorlax, along with the Sitrus Berry and Magost Berry. The Haban Berry's design and name may be based on a strawberry guava.

Title: Colbur Berry

A Colbur Berry (Japanese: ナモのみ Namo Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Colbur Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Dark-type attack, it will consume its held Colbur Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Colbur Berries. Colbur Berry is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Super Electric Breaker expansion and the English Surging Sparks expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The Colbur Berry card has a one-time effect of reducing attack damage from an opponent's (Darkness-type) Pokémon done to the Pokémon it is attached to by 60. After its effect is applied, the Colbur Berry is discarded. The Colbur Berry's design and name may be based on a cocklebur.

Title: Babiri Berry

A Babiri Berry (Japanese: リリバのみ Ririba Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Babiri Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Steel-type attack, it will consume its held Babiri Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Babiri Berries. In Dealing with Dragonite, Platinum's Froslass was seen holding a Babiri Berry, which subsequently allowed it to withstand a Steel Wing attack from Argenta's Dragonite and then defeat it with Ice Shard. Babiri Berry is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Super Electric Breaker expansion and the English Surging Sparks expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The Babiri Berry card has a one-time effect of reducing attack damage from an opponent's (Metal-type) Pokémon done to the Pokémon it is attached to by 60. After its effect is applied, the Babiri Berry is discarded. A Babiri Berry is one of the Berries featured on the Naughty Mimikyu card sleeves. The Babiri Berry's name and design may be based on a biriba.

Title: Chilan Berry

If you were looking for the e-Reader-exclusive Berry in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, see Chilan Berry (Generation III). A Chilan Berry (Japanese: ホズのみ Hozu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Chilan Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. If the holder is hit by a Normal-type attack, it will consume its held Chilan Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. In Generation IV, it also activates for Struggle as well as when the holder hits itself in confusion despite dealing typeless damage. The Chilan Berry no longer activates for Struggle in Generation V onward. In the Pokémon Dream World, the player could exchange Berries for Décor. The following Décor required Chilan Berries. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, a Chilan Berry was seen among the many Berries that Cyrus's Probopass's Mini-Noses dug out of Lax's fur while trying to retrieve Cyrus's camera. Unlike the other damage-reducing Berries, the Chilan Berry weakens attack damage (except by moves that deal direct damage) regardless of type effectiveness, instead of super effective damage only. This may be because Normal-type moves cannot normally be super effective. The Chilan Berry does not weaken Present if it heals the target. This is the only Berry which, when held, allows the move Natural Gift to be Normal-type. Another Berry in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire has the same name. It is the only Berry whose name has been reused for others. However, this Generation III version of the Berry is exclusive to its relevant e-Reader card, hence it is unavailable in Generation IV games and will become an Enigma Berry if traded over. When buying Chilan Berries in Join Avenue, the English and German descriptions incorrectly state that they "weaken a supereffective Normal-type attack" like the other damage-reducing Berries. This error is not present in the original Japanese version or in other languages. The Chilan Berry's design and name may be based on a Chinese lantern.

Title: Liechi Berry

A Liechi Berry (Japanese: チイラのみ Chyla Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Liechi Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Liechi Berry raises the holder's Attack by one stage when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Liechi Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. If the holder has Ripen, then its Attack rises by two stages. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, Teatime, or Item Urge, it raises the Attack of the consumer by one stage. In Who, What, When, Where, Wynaut?, Liechi Berries were the main food source for Mirage Island's Wynaut population. At the end of the episode, May received a basket of the rare Berries as a parting gift. In The Forest Champion!, an Ursaring stole Liechi and Passho Berries from a group of forest Pokémon. In Under the Pledging Tree!, Ash gave Liechi Berries to his Pokémon as a gift. In A Performance Pop Quiz!, Liechi Berries were used as a part of the Anistar City Pokémon Showcase. In Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, Liechi Berries were at the Nebel Plateau. Liechi Berries appeared in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!. Liechi Berries have made multiple appearances in the pile of Berries in Bewear's den, including The Sun, the Scare, the Secret Lair!, Getting to Know You!, Mimikyu Unmasked!, and Acting True to Form!. Liechi Berries appeared in A Team-on-Team Tussle!. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Pikachu found Liechi Berries, along with different types of Berries, inside a hollowed-out stump in Lush Jungle while looking for a Miracle Seed to be used as a dish ingredient. Liechi Berries briefly appeared in With a Spoink in Your Step I, where Plusle and Minun were seen hiding behind a Liechi Berry plant on Mirage Island. A Liechi Berry appeared in Fussing and Fighting as a part of Professor Juniper's dinner. The Liechi Berry's design and name may be based on a lychee.

Title: Ganlon Berry

A Ganlon Berry (Japanese: リュガのみ Ryuga Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Ganlon Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Ganlon Berry raises the holder's Defense by one stage when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Ganlon Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. If the holder has Ripen, then its Defense rises by two stages. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, Teatime, or Item Urge, it raises the Defense of the consumer by one stage.

Title: Salac Berry

A Salac Berry (Japanese: カムラのみ Camula Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Salac Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Salac Berry raises the holder's Speed by one stage when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Salac Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. If the holder has Ripen, then its Speed rises by two stages. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, Teatime, or Item Urge, it raises the Speed of the consumer by one stage. In Pokémon UNITE, Salac Berries appear on all of the game's stages except for Shivre City. Typically, they appear closer to the center of the map than to the base of each team. Eating a Salac Berry increases the movement speed of the player's Pokemon for a certain duration. Salac Berries respawn after being used when a certain amount of time has passed. In Once More into the Unown, Blue used a Salac Berry on his Porygon2 so it could quickly infiltrate R's systems and free his grandfather and Green's parents from their shackles. It later reused the Berry's effect by using Recycle. In Going Ashore and Neighboring Akala Island, Moon used a Salac Berry on her Rowlet to increase his speed, allowing him to escape from Team Skull. The Salac Berry's name may be based on a salak. Its design may be based on a cactus.

Title: Petaya Berry

A Petaya Berry (Japanese: ヤタピのみ Yatapi Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Petaya Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. A Petaya Berry raises the holder's Special Attack by one stage when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Petaya Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. If the holder has Ripen, then its Special Attack rises by two stages. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, Teatime, or Item Urge, it raises the Special Attack of the consumer by one stage. The Petaya Berry's design and name may be based on a pitaya.

Title: Apicot Berry

An Apicot Berry (Japanese: ズアのみ Zua Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Apicot Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $20. An Apicot Berry raises the holder's Special Defense by one stage when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Apicot Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. If the holder has Ripen, then its Special Defense rises by two stages. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, Teatime, or Item Urge, it raises the Special Defense of the consumer by one stage. The Apicot Berry's design and name may be based on an apricot.

Title: Lansat Berry

A Lansat Berry (Japanese: サンのみ Sang Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Lansat Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. A Lansat Berry raises the holder's critical-hit ratio by two stages when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Lansat Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. The Lansat Berry's effect is not affected by Ripen. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it raises the critical-hit ratio of the consumer by two stages. In Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, Mallow found a Lansat Berry during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for Ash and his classmates by Olivia. This Berry was noted to be larger than normal Lansat Berries. Two Lansat Berries also appeared on a holographic screen during Sophocles's first hunt for treasure. The Lansat Berry's name may be based on a langsat. Its design may be based on the Sun.

Title: Starf Berry

A Starf Berry (Japanese: スターのみ Star Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In the Generation V games, the Starf Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. A Starf Berry randomly raises the holder's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, or Speed by two stages when the holder's HP drop to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Starf Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. If the holder has Ripen, then the chosen stat rises by four stages. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it randomly raises the Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, or Speed of the consumer by two stages. In Generation III, the colors of the Starf Berry's star match the five flavors: red for spicy, blue for dry, pink for sweet, green for bitter, and yellow for sour. For unknown reasons, the pink was changed to orange in Generation IV. The Starf Berry's design and name may be based on a starfruit.

Title: Enigma Berry

An Enigma Berry (Japanese: ナゾのみ Nazo Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation III. In Generation III, it refers to the Berries that can only be obtained by scanning Pokémon Battle e cards with the e-Reader. In Generation IV, it became a normal Berry, but retained its rarity. In Generation V, it can also be found as a Battle Subway NPC partner's occasional held item. In the Generation V games, the Enigma Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. In the Generation III games, the term "Enigma Berry" is used to refer collectively to all of the Berries that can be obtained in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire by scanning the Pokémon Battle e Berry cards with the e-Reader. These include the Pumkin, Drash, Eggant, Strib, Chilan, and Nutpea Berries in Pokémon Battle e: Series 1, and the Japan-exclusive Ginema, Kuo, Yago, Touga, Niniku, and Topo Berries in Pokémon Battle e: Series 2. After an Enigma Berry card is scanned for the first time, the player can obtain one Berry from Norman at the Petalburg Gym. This can be repeated if an Enigma Berry card is scanned again, and the player has no e-Reader Berries in the Bag or PC when talking to him. If the player scans another card, all instances of that Berry in the game (including in the Bag, in the PC, held by a Pokémon, or planted in soft soil) are transformed into the new Berry. Existing Berry plants that have not yet fruited will reflect the new Berry's growth rate and yield after reaching their next stage of growth. If held by a Pokémon transferred through Pal Park to the Generation IV games, it will become an Enigma Berry, regardless of which card was scanned. In most cases, the Berry will use the name specified by the Enigma Berry card, such as in the Bag or while Berry Blending. However, there are some cases where its name will be displayed as "Enigma Berry" instead: when a held Berry is shown in the PKMN Data view of the Pokémon Storage System, and when a Berry is held or consumed by another player's Pokémon in the Pokémon Cable Club Colosseum. Due to an oversight, the Japanese version of Pokémon Box Ruby & Sapphire allows Pokémon holding these Berries to be deposited in Pokémon Box and withdrawn to another game. If the receiving game has never scanned an Enigma Berry card, it will use the default placeholder data for the Enigma Berry, which is otherwise never used in normal gameplay. This was patched in the Western versions of Pokémon Box. In the Generation III games, an Enigma Berry cannot be stolen by Thief or Covet, or exchanged by Trick. The player will not be permitted to enter the Pokémon Cable Club Trade Center, the Pokémon Wireless Club Union Room, or the Pokémon Wireless Club Direct Corner Trade Center if a Pokémon in their party is holding this Berry. A Pokémon holding this Berry cannot be traded to Pokémon Colosseum or Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, nor can it be stored in the Western versions of Pokémon Box Ruby & Sapphire. An Enigma Berry restores ¼ of the holder's max HP when the Pokémon is hit by a super effective move. When forcibly consumed via Fling, Pluck, Bug Bite, or Item Urge, it restores ¼ of the holder's max HP. The following is a list of cards named or holding an Enigma Berry. The Enigma Berry's name may be based on an enigma. Its design may be based on a question mark or a sunflower seed.

Title: Micle Berry

A Micle Berry (Japanese: ミクルのみ Micle Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Micle Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. A Micle Berry multiplies the accuracy of the holder's next move by 1.2 (approximated as 4915/4096 from Gen V onward) when the holder's HP drops to ¼ or below. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Micle Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. In A Heated Battle Begins!!, Yū had his Shaymin hold a Micle Berry during a battle with his rival, Shin, allowing it to land an accurate Leaf Storm on Shin's Empoleon, causing it to faint and giving Yū the victory. The Micle Berry's design and name may be based on Miracle fruit, with which it also shares the trait of making other food taste sweeter.

Title: Custap Berry

A Custap Berry (Japanese: イバンのみ Iban Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Custap Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. A Custap Berry allows the holder to move first in its priority bracket when HP is below ¼. If the holder has Gluttony, then it eats its Custap Berry when its HP drops to ½ or below. When at the requisite HP the holder will eat the Custap Berry at the very start of a turn, before Pokémon can be recalled. Because of this a Pokémon holding it whilst under the effect of Unnerve will not be able to eat it until the turn after all opposing Pokémon with Unnerve have been recalled, and conversely can eat it on the turn an opposing Pokémon with Unnerve is sent out. The Custap Berry's design and name may be based on a custard apple.

Title: Jaboca Berry

A Jaboca Berry (Japanese: ジャポのみ Japo Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Jaboca Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. When a Pokémon holds a Jaboca Berry and is hit by a physical attack, the attacker will lose 1/8 of its max HP. If the holder has Ripen, the attacker will instead lose 1/4 of its maximum HP. In The Guardian's Challenge!, a Jaboca Berry was seen as a part of the meal that Mallow made for Ash and his classmates' Pokémon. The Jaboca Berry's design may be based on a bunch of grapes. Its name may be based on a jabuticaba.

Title: Rowap Berry

A Rowap Berry (Japanese: レンブのみ Renbu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation IV. In the Generation V games, the Rowap Berry can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $30,000. When a Pokémon holds a Rowap Berry and is hit by a special attack, the attacker will lose 1/8 of its max HP. If the holder has Ripen, the attacker will instead lose 1/4 of its maximum HP. The Rowap Berry's design may be based on a Syzygium species berry. Its name may be based on a rose apple or a water apple.

Title: Bright Powder

The Bright Powder (Japanese: ひかりのこな Light Powder), formatted BrightPowder prior to Generation VI, is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that decreases the opponent's accuracy. Moves targeted at the holder have an additional 20/256 (~8%) chance to miss, including for one-hit knockout moves. Bright Powder now reduces accuracy of moves targeting the holder by 10% of what their accuracy would be otherwise. Bright Powder no longer affects one-hit knockout moves. In Pokémon Colosseum, during the cutscene battle between Eagun and Cipher Peon Skrub at the Relic Stone, Skrub's Shadow Hitmontop is holding a Bright Powder. However, when the player immediately afterwards battles Skrub and has a chance to snag Hitmontop, it's holding a Black Belt instead. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, when pluralized or prefixed with the indefinite article, this item's name is rendered with a lowercase 'p' ("Brightpowders" and "a Brightpowder", respectively). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, both of these instances are corrected to display with a capital 'P' ("BrightPowders" and "a BrightPowder", respectively), matching how the item's name would normally be rendered. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: White Herb

The White Herb (Japanese: しろいハーブ White Herb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It restores all of the holder's decreased stats. If the stat stages of any of the holder's stats are negative, it consumes the White Herb and all negative stat stages are reset to be neutral. If a multistrike move activates Tangling Hair, Gooey, or Weak Armor, a Pokémon will not consume the White Herb until after the final strike. If a Pokémon holding a White Herb activates multiple Pokémon's Tangling Hair or Gooey, it will not consume its White Herb until all of the Abilities have activated for that attack. If a Pokémon with Weak Armor is hit by Knock Off, Thief, Covet, or a physical move from a Pokémon with Magician, its held White Herb will be knocked off or stolen before it has a chance to activate. If a Pokémon with Weak Armor is hit by Fling using a White Herb, the White Herb's effect will be applied before Weak Armor lowers its Defense. If a Pokémon uses a contact move that lowers its own stats (such as Superpower) on a Pokémon with Pickpocket, its held White Herb will be stolen before it has a chance to activate. If the Pokémon with Defiant or Competitive is holding a White Herb, Defiant or Competitive will trigger before the White Herb, so the user will receive the Attack or Special Attack boost and then the lowered stat will be restored; if the same stat boosted by the Ability is lowered, the White Herb never has a chance to activate. If a Pokémon with Contrary has one of its stats lowered by an O-Power, its held White Herb will not be activated until after a Pokémon uses a move. In Crisis at Ferroseed Research!, Professor Malveaux ordered Case to prepare a treatment for Pikachu, which included White Herb extract.

Title: Macho Brace

The Macho Brace (Japanese: きょうせいギプス Coercive Cast) is a held item introduced in Generation III. It doubles all effort values gained by the holder during a battle. It is an unobtainable held item in Generation VII and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Doubles any effort values that are obtained by the Pokémon holding it during a battle. Stacks with Pokérus. It does not affect effort values gained from vitamins and feathers. The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved during battle. In Under the Pledging Tree!, a set of Macho Braces was one of the items offered to Ash by a market vendor in Coumarine City after Ash had wondered out loud what presents he should buy for an upcoming festival. The Macho Brace is the held item featured alongside Machamp in the Pokémon Held Item Pins line by The Pokémon Company International. In The Path to the Pokémon League, A.J.'s Pokémon are shown to wear something called a "Strength Intensifier" which looks like a Macho Brace.

Title: Quick Claw

The Quick Claw (Japanese: せんせいのツメ Head-Start Claw) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that increases the holder's chance of moving first. Quick Claw gives the holder a ~23% (60/256) chance of going first in its priority bracket. Quick Claw gives the holder a 20% chance of going first in its priority bracket (regardless of Trick Room and Stall). If a Quick Claw is gained, lost, or suppressed, then it will not affect turn order until the beginning of the next turn. From Generation IV onward, Quick Claw plays an animation at the start of the turn if it is activated. From Generation V onward, the Quick Claw activation message will be displayed before a player flees or forfeits. In Interesting Interactions Involving Illumise, a Quick Claw was listed as the held item of a rental Skarmory that Emerald used at the Battle Factory. A Quick Claw was held by the Metagross that Emerald borrowed from Crystal for his battle against Tucker in A Cheeky Charizard Change-Up I, allowing it to outspeed Tucker's Charizard and trap it in a supereffective Rock Tomb. This proved to be not enough to knock the Flame Pokémon out, however, and Charizard was able to defeat Metagross with Overheat. The Japanese name of Quick Claw can also be read as "Teacher's Claw", which explains the Quick Claw gift from the teacher of Pokémon Trainers' School in Hoenn. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Soothe Bell

The Soothe Bell (Japanese: やすらぎのすず Peace Bell) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It amplifies increases to the holder's friendship. When held by a Pokémon, increases to that Pokémon's friendship are increased by 50%. The Soothe Bell increases only the original friendship boost, not bonuses from the Luxury Ball and met location. The Soothe Bell increases the friendship boost after applying bonuses from the Luxury Ball and met location. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Soothe Bell is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 500. It summons Eevee as a helper Pokémon. A Soothe Bell first appeared in Showdown At Linoone as one of the items Tokin had picked up. A pair of Soothe Bells appeared in Tag! We're It...! as the prize promised for the winners of the Hearthome City Tag Battle Competition, one for each member of the winning pair of Trainers. In Smells Like Team Spirit!, the competition ended in Ash and Paul's victory, earning each of them one of the Soothe Bells. However, Paul did not want his, so he gave it to Ash instead. Ash's Soothe Bells briefly reappeared at the start of In The Shadow of Zekrom!, where they were seen on Ash's desk, along with various other gifts and prizes he had received during his journey in the Sinnoh region. Virgil used a Soothe Bell in Lost at the League! to calm down a Garbodor and a group of Trubbish. In Suffering Psyduck, one of Mr. Backlot's Maids gave Platinum a Soothe Bell as thanks for visiting his mansion. A Soothe Bell appears in the artwork of Pikachu (BW-P Promo 120). The Soothe Bell has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Mental Herb

The Mental Herb (Japanese: メンタルハーブ Mental Herb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It cures the holder of infatuation, and from Generation V onward, other mental effects. If the holder is infatuated, it consumes the Mental Herb and is cured of infatuation. If a Pokémon with Oblivious and holding a Mental Herb is infatuated, Oblivious will cure the Pokémon of infatuation before the Mental Herb has a chance to be consumed. If the holder is infatuated or affected by Taunt, Encore, Torment, Heal Block, or Disable (including from Cursed Body), it consumes the Mental Herb and is cured of all these effects. If a Pokémon with Oblivious and holding a Mental Herb is infatuated or affected by Taunt, the Mental Herb will be consumed before Oblivious cures the Pokémon of infatuation or the Taunt. If a Pokémon holding a Mental Herb triggers Cursed Body or Cute Charm of multiple Pokémon with a single attack, the Mental Herb will be consumed immediately after the first Ability activates, so by the time the second Ability activates the holder no longer has a Mental Herb.

Title: Choice Band

The Choice Band (Japanese: こだわりハチマキ Fixation Headband) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It boosts the holder's Attack, but locks it into only using one move. It has two counterparts that boost different stats: Choice Scarf and Choice Specs. When held by a Pokémon, it boosts the Pokémon's Attack by 50%, but only allows the use of the first move selected. This effect resets when the holder is withdrawn. The Choice Band's Attack boost also applies to confusion damage. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, due to a glitch, if a Pokémon uses U-turn and switches into a Pokémon holding a Choice Band that also knows U-turn, that Pokémon will be locked into U-turn. This was fixed in subsequent games. From Generation V onward, if a Pokémon is already locked into a move due to a held Choice Band, if the held Choice Band is removed while its effect is negated, the Pokémon will be affected by the Choice item lock glitch. The Choice Band no longer boosts confusion damage. If a Pokémon holding a Choice Band uses a move other than the one it's locked into (such as through Instruct or Dancer), the move will fail and no PP will be deducted. If a Pokémon holding a Choice Band Dynamaxes, the item will temporarily have no effect; the stat boost will be disabled, and the Pokémon will no longer be subject to move locks. After the Dynamax ends, the stat boost is restored, and any previous move lock will be re-enabled. Emerald rented a Linoone holding a Choice Band from the Battle Factory in Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming. It was used to strengthen its Frustration in some of its matches. This item later proved to be instrumental in taking down Noland's Mawile, when Linoone used Trick to switch items with Mawile and lock it into using Iron Defense. In Deduction Time, Hugh had his Pidove use Bestow to pass a Choice Band on to a Team Plasma Grunt's Klang, locking it into using Protect and thus preventing it from attacking. The following is a list of cards featuring the Choice Band in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Choice Band has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. One of Pikachu's alternate costumes in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U shows Pikachu wearing a Choice Band on its head.

Title: Silver Powder

The Silver Powder (Japanese: ぎんのこな Silver Powder), formatted SilverPowder prior to Generation VI, is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Bug-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Bug-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Bug-type moves by 20%. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Amulet Coin

The Amulet Coin (Japanese: おまもりこばん Amulet Koban) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that increases the amount of prize money earned from Trainer battles. The Amulet Coin doubles the amount of prize money received after battle if the holder takes part in the battle. It also doubles the number of coins picked up from Pay Day, G-Max Gold Rush, and Make It Rain. In Pokémon Colosseum's Story Mode and Pokémon XD's colosseums, this bonus can be applied to the prize money earned after clearing a set. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire only, due to a minor glitch, when collecting money dropped by Pay Day, the amount displayed will be incorrect if it was boosted by an Amulet Coin (the correct amount will still be obtained). Amulet Coin does not stack with Luck Incense or other Amulet Coins; however, it does stack with Happy Hour, Prize Money Power, and Roto Prize Money. Once the Pokémon has participated in battle while holding it, it takes effect; it is unaffected by Klutz and takes effect even if the holding Pokémon faints or the Amulet Coin is removed or negated. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, the Amulet Coin is a Friendship Item that is obtained as a prize for beating the Great League. It summons Meowth as a helper Pokémon. In Pokémon the Series, the Amulet Coin is regarded as a good luck charm. An Amulet Coin appeared in Capacia Island UFO!, where it was found by Ash. Later, when he and Team Rocket entered a UFO belonging to a group of Beheeyem, the Beheeyem told them that they lost an item looking like the Amulet Coin that was a vital part in getting the UFO to fly. Ash gave them the Amulet Coin he found, but it was not the right item. Instead, the Beheeyem sought a similar-looking item, which had been found by James earlier on. Amulet Coin was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Diamond & Pearl Series (the Japanese DP Era) in the Great Encounters expansion. When a player attaches this Trainer card to their Active Pokémon, they can draw an additional card at the end of their turn. An Amulet Coin is also seen in the illustration of the Pokémon Collector card from the HeartGold & SoulSilver expansion. The Amulet Coin has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Cleanse Tag

The Cleanse Tag (Japanese: きよめのおふだ Purification Ofuda) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It decreases the wild Pokémon encounter rate if held by the player's Pokémon. If held by any member in the player's party, it halves the encounter rate of wild Pokémon. If held by the first member in the player's party, it decreases the encounter rate of wild Pokémon by one third. It also works if the holder has fainted. Cleanse Tag's encounter rate reduction does not apply if it is held by a Pokémon with Illuminate, Arena Trap, No Guard, Stench, White Smoke, or Quick Feet, or if the Pokémon has Sand Veil or Snow Cloak and the appropriate weather condition is in effect. However, Cleanse Tag is still cumulative with the overworld effects of Intimidate and Keen Eye.

Title: Soul Dew

A Soul Dew (Japanese: こころのしずく Soul Dew) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. From Generation III to VI, it boosts the Special Attack and Special Defense of Latios and Latias; from Generation VII onwards, it boosts the power of their Psychic- and Dragon-type moves instead. Prior to Generation VII, it was banned from official tournaments, Random Matchup, the Battle Subway, the Battle Institute, almost all PWT tournaments, and the Battle Maison. In Generation III and IV, if used in the Battle Tower or Battle Frontier, Soul Dew's effect is nullified. With the change in effect in Generation VII, it is now allowed to be used in official tournaments, Battle Spot, and battle facilities. If held by Latios or Latias, it increases its Special Attack and Special Defense by 50% each. If held by Latios or Latias, it increases the power of its Psychic- and Dragon-type moves by approximately 20% (the specific power multiplier is 4915/4096). The Soul Dew appeared in the movie Pokémon Heroes: Latios & Latias, where it is used to guard Johto's Alto Mare. It was given to an old couple in Alto Mare long ago after a Latios and a Latias saved the city from an evil force attacking it, and was subsequently hidden in the Secret Garden. In the movie, Annie and Oakley searched for the Soul Dew as well as the two current Legendary guardians of the city, Latios and Latias. If the Soul Dew is attached to the Defense Mechanism of Alto Mare, anyone using the device can drown the city in water, block all exits in the city, and awaken the Fossil Pokémon Kabutops and Aerodactyl in the city museum. However, if it is used by someone with an evil heart, it will grow dark and eventually break. During the climax of the movie, the original Soul Dew was destroyed, but a new one was created when Latios sacrificed his life to save Alto Mare from a massive tidal wave, using his own spirit to create a replacement for the destroyed gemstone. Soul Dew was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese e-Card Era. Released in the Theater Limited VS Pack half deck, it features an illustration by Hiromichi Sugiyama. This Trainer card allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon with Alto Mare in its name and add it to their Bench; they may also move an Energy card from another of their Pokémon to the new Pokémon before shuffling their deck. The Soul Dew has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. In the final Japanese trailer of the fifth movie, Bianca explains to Ash that the Soul Dew is crystallized tears of Latios and Latias.

Title: Deep Sea Tooth

The Deep Sea Tooth (Japanese: しんかいのキバ Deep-Sea Fang), formatted DeepSeaTooth prior to Generation VI and Deepseatooth in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series, is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It allows Clamperl to evolve into Huntail, and also boosts the Special Attack of a Clamperl that holds it. Causes Clamperl to evolve into Huntail when traded while holding it. This consumes the Deep Sea Tooth. The Deepseatooth appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Deepseatooth at Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring, Clamperl can be evolved into Huntail. This consumes the Link Cable and Deepseatooth. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. A Deep Sea Tooth and a Deep Sea Scale appeared in The Evolutionary War. They were used to evolve Keith and Nancy's Clamperl into a Huntail and a Gorebyss, respectively. In this episode, Deep Sea Teeth were revealed to be found on Island C of the A-B-C Islands. Two Deep Sea Teeth appeared in Showdown At Linoone as some of the items Tokin had picked up. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, when pluralized or prefixed with the indefinite article, this item's name is rendered with a lowercase 's' ("DeepseaTeeth" and "a DeepseaTooth", respectively). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, both of these instances are corrected to display with a capital 'S' ("DeepSeaTeeth" and "a DeepSeaTooth", respectively), matching how the item's name would normally be rendered.

Title: Deep Sea Scale

The Deep Sea Scale (Japanese: しんかいのウロコ Deep-Sea Scale), formatted DeepSeaScale prior to Generation VI and Deepseascale in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series, is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It allows Clamperl to evolve into Gorebyss, and also boosts the Special Defense of a Clamperl that holds it. Causes Clamperl to evolve into Gorebyss when traded while holding it. This consumes the Deep Sea Scale. The Deepseascale appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Deepseascale at Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring, Clamperl can be evolved into Gorebyss. This consumes the Link Cable and Deepseascale. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. A Deep Sea Tooth and a Deep Sea Scale appeared in The Evolutionary War. They were used to evolve Keith and Nancy's Clamperl into a Huntail and a Gorebyss, respectively. In this episode, Deep Sea Scales were revealed to be found on Island B of the A-B-C Islands. A Deep Sea Scale appeared in Showdown At Linoone as one of the items Tokin had picked up. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, when pluralized or prefixed with the indefinite article, this item's name is rendered with a lowercase 's' ("DeepseaScales" and "a DeepseaScale", respectively). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, both of these instances are corrected to display with a capital 'S' ("DeepSeaScales" and "a DeepSeaScale", respectively), matching how the item's name would normally be rendered. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, it is possible to obtain a DeepSeaScale before obtaining the National Pokédex, by either catching a wild Chinchou holding the item, or stealing one from it with a move such as Thief or Covet, despite there being no use for it at that point (outside of trading), as the item's effects only benefit Clamperl, which cannot be obtained before obtaining the National Pokédex. As the item's description mentions Clamperl, this is the only way to see the name of a Pokémon not present in the Johto Pokédex before obtaining the National Pokédex, outside of the Battle Frontier (which only requires entering the Hall of Fame, not obtaining the National Pokédex) and external communication with other games.

Title: Smoke Ball

This article is about the held item introduced in Generation II. For the consumable item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, see Smoke Bomb. The Smoke Ball (Japanese: けむりだま Smoke Ball) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It guarantees the holder can flee from wild Pokémon. If held by the player's Pokémon, fleeing from a wild Pokémon is guaranteed to succeed. It does not ignore trapping moves. If held by a Pokémon, it can flee and Teleport successfully, regardless of trapping moves and Abilities. If the player's Pokémon holding a Smoke Ball faints, if the player attempts to flee instead of sending out another Pokémon, they will escape without fail. In Generation III only, the Smoke Ball plays a special animation when used. Wild Pokémon cannot successfully Teleport while trapped, even if they hold a Smoke Ball. If the player's Pokémon holding a Smoke Ball faints, the player is no longer guaranteed to flee successfully. If held by a Pokémon, it can Teleport successfully, regardless of trapping moves and Abilities. If the Nihilego encountered at Aether Paradise is given a Smoke Ball, it will be able to flee on turn 5 of the battle even if it is trapped. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, despite its effect not being applicable in most battles due to the inability to flee, it does still have its effect. If a wild Trapinch encountered at a Poké Spot has Arena Trap, the player can successfully use Teleport if the user holds a Smoke Ball.

Title: Everstone

The Everstone (Japanese: かわらずのいし Unchanging Stone) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It prevents the holder from evolving. In the Generation V games, the Everstone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $1000. A Pokémon holding an Everstone is prevented from evolving using certain methods depending on the games. In all games where the Everstone is available, this item prevents any of the methods of Evolution triggered by gaining a level in battle or by consuming a Rare Candy. This includes but is not limited to leveling up at or above a certain level, or with high friendship, or in certain locations, or knowing a certain move, and so on. If a Pokémon is able to evolve by trade with no held item, then it is possible to prevent this Evolution by trading it with a held Everstone unless it is traded to a Generation I game. In Generation II and III, the Everstone is able to prevent Kadabra from evolving into Alakazam. From Generation IV onwards, a Kadabra still evolves into Alakazam while holding an Everstone due to an explicitly programmed exception. If either Karrablast or Shelmet holds an Everstone when traded for the other, neither will evolve. In Generations II, III, and VI to VIII, a Pokémon holding an Everstone is unable to evolve by using an Evolution stone. In Generation VIII, the text "Cannot use" appears when attempting to use an Evolution stone to evolve a Pokémon that is holding an Everstone, even if it would otherwise be compatible. If Kubfu is holding an Everstone when the player interacts with the scroll at the Tower of Waters or Tower of Darkness for the first time, Mustard will notice and allow the player to not evolve it. If Galarian Yamask or Galarian Farfetch'd are holding an Everstone when their Evolution requirements are met, they will not evolve. If Applin or Sinistea are holding an Everstone, they will not evolve if they are exposed to their respective evolutionary items. In Pokémon Emerald and Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, if held by a female Pokémon or Ditto in Pokémon Day Care, bred Pokémon have a 50% chance of having the same Nature as that parent. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and Pokémon Black and White, this is changed so that either parent will have a 50% chance of having its Nature passed down, if that parent holds an Everstone. In either case, in Generation IV, this does not work if the parents come from games in different languages (due to the Masuda method). In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 and Generation VI onward, if held by either parent in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery, bred Pokémon are guaranteed to have the same Nature as the parent holding the Everstone. If both parents hold an Everstone, each parent has an equal chance of passing down their Nature. At the Pokémon Nursery, when breeding Pokémon who would produce offspring that has a regional form, if a parent that is part of the same evolutionary line as the offspring holds an Everstone, bred Pokémon will be the same regional form as the parent that is holding the Everstone, regardless of the region they are bred in. (Normally, bred Pokémon with regional forms are always in the form corresponding to the region in which they were bred.) If both parents hold an Everstone, the form will correspond to the female parent. However, in Pokémon Sword and Shield, due to an oversight, breeding a Unovan Stunfisk and a Galarian Stunfisk that both hold Everstones will always result in Unovan Stunfisk offspring, regardless of the parents' genders. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, the player carries an Everstone from start that keeps Magikarp from evolving into Gyarados. It cannot be thrown away but can be broken by tapping Magikarp repeatedly. In Pokémon Quest, the Everstone can be toggled on and off when editing any Pokémon's Power Charm. While holding an Everstone, a Pokémon will not evolve. In Stopped in the Name of Love!, Dawn received an Everstone from Sandalstraw Town's Nurse Joy to assist in her Piplup's desire to not evolve yet, for he wanted to preserve his memories of him and Dawn as a Piplup in the English dub (or was afraid of behaving like Dawn's Mamoswine and attacking her upon evolving in the original Japanese version). She then gave it to Piplup to stop him from evolving into Prinplup. Despite this, however, Piplup has never been shown holding the Everstone later. In No Stone Unturned!, Ash's Rowlet found an Everstone, which it ate, taking away its ability to ever evolve into Dartrix. With it, it also learned how to use Seed Bomb when Ash was trying to teach it the then unlearnable attack Bullet Seed. An Everstone appeared in The Pancham Who Wants to Be a Hero. A Pancham wore it for most of the short until finally throwing it away, allowing itself to evolve into Pangoro. In (Violent) Earthquake! Cyrus's Consuming Ambition!!, it was revealed that Mitsumi had secretly attached an Everstone to Hareta's Piplup before he started his journey, because she had thought Hareta would learn faster with weaker Pokémon. After Mitsumi removed the Everstone, Piplup immediately evolved into Prinplup, and then into Empoleon. The Everstone has been released as a plush accessory/keychain that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center. In Generation I, Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, and Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Everstone is unavailable due to the lack of the held item feature. In those games, there is no way to prevent a Pokémon's Evolution from being triggered. However, depending on the method of Evolution used, it is still possible to cancel it by pressing B during the Evolution cutscene. Since it is not possible to press B to cancel an Evolution by trade, then the player is unable to simply trade the unevolved Pokémon in the games with no held item feature. Similarly, in all games other than in Generation II and Generation III, it is not possible to trade a Kadabra without evolving it into Alakazam. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, Mindy offers the player a Haunter as an in-game trade in Snowpoint City. Since this Haunter is holding an Everstone, it does not evolve into Gengar. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, a question on the Biology class's Final Exam references this item, specifically its interaction with Evolution stones: "If a Pokémon is holding an Everstone, will using an item that induces Evolution, such as a Fire Stone, cause it to evolve?". In earlier versions of the games, the "correct" answer (as indicated by the score received after the exam) is that holding an Everstone will prevent an eligible Pokémon from evolving using its corresponding stone, even though this has not been an effect of the Everstone since Generation IV. This was changed in an update, changing the correct answer to "Yes, it will [evolve]."

Title: Focus Band

The Focus Band (Japanese: きあいのハチマキ Fighting Spirit Headband) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that sometimes prevents fainting. If the Pokémon holding a Focus Band is hit by a damaging move that would cause it to faint, there is a ~12% (30/256) chance the Focus Band will activate and cause its holder to survive with 1 HP. If Focus Band activates on any strike of a multistrike move, the holder will survive every subsequent strike of the attack. Focus Band can allow the holder to survive Future Sight. It cannot activate as a result of self-inflicted confusion damage. The Focus Band now has a 10% chance to activate. Focus Band now allows its holder to endure self-inflicted confusion damage. Focus Band can allow the holder to survive Doom Desire. If Focus Band activates on a multistrike move, the holder will now only survive the strike that activated it, and the Focus Band will have to activate independently on each subsequent hit. In Pokémon UNITE, the Focus Band is a held item that recovers user's HP for 3s when below 25%; specifically by 8/11/14% of missing HP with 100/90/80s cooldown at Grade 1, 10, and 20 respectively. It also increases the user's Defense and Sp. Defense: by 2 and 0 respectively at Grade 1 and by 30 each at Grade 30. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Pichu seems to be wearing a Focus Band in one of its palette swaps. In The Journalist from Another Region!, a Pokémon Sumo Tournament was held during the Grand Harvest Festival on Harvest Island, with the prize for winning being a Focus Band. Eventually, it was won by Ash, who gave it to his Pignite to wear as a trophy. In The Last Battle VI, Gold gave each of his team members a Focus Band to hold during the final battle against the Masked Man. The Focus Band was introduced as a Pokémon Tool Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Neo Series (the Japanese Neo Era) in the Neo Genesis expansion. It has never been reprinted. If a Pokémon with a Focus Band would be Knocked Out, its owner may flip a coin. If heads, the Pokémon survives with 10 HP and Focus Band is discarded. The Focus Band has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. In Bibarel Gnaws Best!, an expert stonecutter and his Bibarel wore headbands resembling Focus Bands. He also gave the same kind of headbands to Ash, Brock, and Dawn at the end of the episode. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Pichu can wear a Focus Band as one of its palette swaps. In My Pokémon Ranch, Golgo's Octillery has a unique model where it wears its Focus Band. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Lucky Egg

The Lucky Egg (Japanese: しあわせタマゴ Lucky Egg) is a type of item introduced in Generation II. In the Generation V games, the Lucky Egg can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $200. The holding Pokémon gains 150% the experience it would otherwise gain. This effect stacks with other experience-increasing effects, such as different-OT Pokémon's naturally boosted experience gain. It does not affect experience gained from Auto Battles. Using a Lucky Egg doubles the experience points earned by the player for the next 30 minutes. Lucky Eggs can be purchased at any time from the in-game Shop with PokéCoins. The player will also receive a Lucky Egg at level 9 and every 5 levels starting from level 10. In First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style!, Rotom Pokédex mentioned the Lucky Egg when giving Blissey's Pokédex entry. The Lucky Egg was introduced as a Pokémon Tool Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Platinum Series (the Japanese Platinum Era) in the Arceus expansion. It was first reprinted in Sword & Shield. If the Pokémon it is attached to is Knocked Out and put in the discard pile by damage from an opponent's attack, the player draws cards until they have 7 cards in their hand.

Title: Scope Lens

The Scope Lens (Japanese: ピントレンズ Focus Point Lens) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It increases the holder's critical hit ratio. Raises the critical hit ratio of the holder by one stage. In Pokémon UNITE, the Scope Lens is a held item that increases the damage of basic attack critical hits by % of user's Attack; specifically, 45/60/75% of user's Attack at Grade 1, 10, and 20 respectively. It also increases the user's critical hit rate and damage; by 0.4% and 0.8% respectively at Grade 1, and 6% and 12% at Grade 30. The Scope Lens appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Sky, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Keep Going! Blazing Adventure Squad, and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity. If held by a Pokémon, the Scope Lens increases the Pokémon's critical hit probability by flat 30%/15%. In Interesting Interactions Involving Illumise, a Scope Lens was listed as the held item of a rental Ludicolo that Emerald used at the Battle Factory. The Magnifier, which has the same Japanese name as the Scope Lens, was released as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Neo Series (the Japanese Neo Era) in Neo Destiny. The card has never been reprinted. It attaches to a Pokémon for one turn; if a Pokémon attached with a Magnifier attacks, it ignores Resistance. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Metal Coat

The Metal Coat (Japanese: メタルコート Metal Coat) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It allows Onix and Scyther to evolve into Steelix and Scizor, respectively, and also increases the power of the holder's Steel-type moves. Increases the power of Steel-type moves used by the holder by 10%. Increases the power of Steel-type moves used by the holder by 20%. Causes Onix to evolve into Steelix and Scyther to evolve into Scizor when traded while holding it, which consumes the Metal Coat. They will not evolve if linking to a Generation I game. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, due to the absence of held items, the Metal Coat simply needs to be used on Onix or Scyther to trigger the Evolution, though the item is still consumed. The Metal Coat appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Metal Coat at Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring, Onix or Scyther can be evolved into Steelix or Scizor, respectively. This consumes the Link Cable and Metal Coat. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Onix or Scyther evolves into Steelix or Scizor, respectively, if it knocks out a Warrior's Pokémon in a manner that allows recruitment while its own Warrior is equipped with a Metal Coat. The Metal Coat also increases the Attack of Steel-type Pokémon by one stage. Metal Coat can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. The Metal Coat was added to Pokémon GO on February 16, 2017. The Metal Coat is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon GO: Onix requires 50 Onix Candy and a Metal Coat to evolve into Steelix. Scyther requires 50 Scyther Candy and a Metal Coat to evolve into Scizor. Starting at level 10, Metal Coats can be rarely obtained from While normally rare, from March 21, 2017, onward, the player is guaranteed to find an Evolution item when obtaining the bonus for spinning a Photo Disc for the seventh day in a row. Additionally, the player receives a Metal Coat from these Special Research tasks: The Metal Coat is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Onix requires 80 Onix Candy, a Metal Coat, and a Linking Cord to evolve into Steelix. In Searching for Chivalry!, Wikstrom gave Goh's Scyther a Metal Coat, which was used to evolve it into Scizor by transferring it through a trade machine while holding it. In Vexing Vespiquen & Unmanageable Mothim II, Diamond found a Metal Coat in Byron's vacation home on Iron Island and subsequently gave it to his Shieldon to hold. is available both in Stow-on-Side's bargain shop and from the Digging Duo in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Leftovers

Leftovers (Japanese: たべのこし Leftovers) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It gradually restores the holder's HP over time. In the Generation V games, the Leftovers can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $200. Restores 1/16 of the holder's maximum HP (rounded down, but not less than 1) at the end of each turn. In Generation IV, Leftovers is able to heal the holder regardless of Heal Block. From Generation V onwards, Leftovers cannot heal Pokémon affected by Heal Block. Leftovers restores health once every 10 seconds, even outside of battle, as long as the holder is outside its Poké Ball. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Leftovers is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 500. It summons Snorlax as a helper Pokémon. In Pokémon UNITE, the Leftovers are a held item that heals the user when out of combat, and also increases their HP and HP recovery. 5s after leaving combat, the user will regenerate 1/1.5/2% of their health per second at Grade 1, 10, and 20 respectively. At Grade 1, this item increases user's HP and their HP recovery by 16 and 0; at grade 30 by 360 and 9. Leftovers were seen multiple times as a held item for various Pokémon in this arc. It was first mentioned in Interesting Interactions Involving Illumise as the held item of a rental Rhyhorn used by Emerald at the Battle Factory. Leftovers made their first proper appearance in Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, where it was used by a virtual Trainer's rental Aggron at the Battle Factory. A serving of Leftovers was also held by the Sceptile that Emerald rented for his battle with Noland in Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie. Lucy's Milotic was revealed to have a serving of Leftovers as its held item in Just My Luck...Shuckle, although it was never actually seen. Another serving of Leftovers was held by Greta's Umbreon in Sneaky Like Shedinja. Leftovers was introduced as a Pokémon Tool Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Diamond & Pearl Series (the Japanese DP Era) in the Great Encounters expansion. This print of Leftovers removes one damage counter from the attached Active Pokémon at the end of the user's turn. Leftovers was reintroduced as a Pokémon Tool card with a different effect during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era) in the 151 expansion. This print of Leftovers heals 20 damage from the attached Active Pokémon at the end of the user's turn. The Great Encounters print of Leftovers subsequently received an erratum so that its effect matches that of the 151 print. Leftovers has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, all Pokémon used by Cooks are holding Leftovers. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Dragon Scale

The Dragon Scale (Japanese: りゅうのウロコ Dragon Scale) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It allows Seadra to evolve into Kingdra. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, it increases the power of Dragon-type moves by 10% when held due to an oversight (while the Dragon Fang—the item which was intended to have this effect—has no effect). In Pokémon Stadium 2, both Dragon Fang and Dragon Scale boost the power of Dragon-type moves. From Generation III onward, Dragon Scale has no effect in battle. Causes Seadra to evolve into Kingdra when traded while holding it, which consumes the Dragon Scale. Seadra will not evolve if linking to a Generation I game. The Dragon Scale appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Dragon Scale at Luminous Cave or Luminous Spring, Seadra can be evolved into Kingdra. This consumes the Link Cable and Dragon Scale. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. The Dragon Scale is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon GO: Seadra requires 100 Horsea Candy and a Dragon Scale to evolve into Kingdra. The Dragon Scale was added to Pokémon GO on February 16, 2017. Starting at level 10, Dragon Scales can be rarely obtained from While normally rare, from March 21, 2017 onward, the player is guaranteed to find an Evolution item when obtaining the bonus for spinning a Photo Disc for the seventh day in a row. Additionally, the player receives a Dragon Scale when completing part 6 of the Special Research "A Ripple in Time". A Dragon Scale appeared in Looking Out for Number Two!, where Ash and Goh found it from a sunken ancient submersible. Goh subsequently gave it as a gift to a wild Seadra. In Ampharos Amore, Silver's Seadra evolved into a Kingdra while holding a Dragon Scale as she was temporarily traded to Gold. In Yikes, Yanmega! II, Roseanne revealed that she researched Evolution items while studying Pokémon Evolution, including the Dragon Scale. A Dragon Scale is featured in the artwork of the Unleashed Kingdra card. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Light Ball

The Light Ball (Japanese: でんきだま Electric Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It boosts the stats of a Pikachu that holds it. If held by a Pikachu, it doubles its Special Attack. If held by a Pikachu, it doubles the power of its moves. If held by a Pikachu, it doubles both its Attack and Special Attack. It is compatible with Cosplay Pikachu, Pikachu in a cap, and Gigantamax Pikachu. If held by either parent of a Pichu when the Egg is produced, the Pichu that hatches will know the move Volt Tackle. From Generation VI onward, if a Pichu knows Volt Tackle this way (and was bred in Generation VI onward), it can be taught Volt Tackle again at the Move Reminder if it forgets the move. For Pokémon distributed in Generation I games, the Pokémon must be traded to a Generation II game for the item to appear. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Light Ball is a Friendship Item that is received as a reward after beating the Friend League. It summons Pikachu as a helper Pokémon. With the revelation that Pibu's Super Rising Thunder is actually Volt Tackle in PSs2, that means either Pika or Chuchu was holding a Light Ball. Light Ball is introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Mega Evolution Series (the Japanese MEGA Series). It was first released in the Japanese MEGA Dream ex subset before debuting in the English Ascended Heroes expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. Like its video game counterpart, the Light Ball card benefits the Pikachu ex it is attached to, making its attacks do 50 more damage to the opponent's Active Pokémon ex. Because Pikachu cannot be found in the wild in Unova, Thief and similar moves no longer permanently steal items held by Trainers' Pokémon from Generation V onward, and Poké Transfer does not transfer held items, the Light Ball cannot be obtained in Generation V outside of events. However, it is coded to be an item held by wild Pikachu, with a 1%*/5% probability. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Soft Sand

The Soft Sand (Japanese: やわらかいすな Soft Sand) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Ground-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Ground-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Ground-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Soft Sand is a Friendship Item that is received as a reward after beating the Ultra League. It summons Mudkip as a helper Pokémon. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Hard Stone

The Hard Stone (Japanese: かたいいし Hard Stone) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Rock-type moves. In the Generation V games, the Hard Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $500. Boosts the power of the holder's Rock-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Rock-type moves by 20%. A Hard Stone was held by the rental Golem that Noland used during his battle against Emerald in Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming and Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Miracle Seed

The Miracle Seed (Japanese: きせきのタネ Miracle Seed) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Grass-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Grass-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Grass-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Miracle Seed is a Friendship Item that is received as a reward after beating the Luxury League. It summons Bulbasaur as a helper Pokémon. In Currying Favor and Flavor!, Ash and Mallow discovered a Miracle Seed in a hollowed-out stump full of Berries in Lush Jungle during a quest Olivia sent them on to collect ingredients for the "Akala Curry". Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Black Glasses

The Black Glasses (Japanese: くろいメガネ Black Glasses), formatted BlackGlasses prior to Generation VI, is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Dark-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Dark-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Dark-type moves by 20%. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Black Belt

For the Trainer class from the Pokémon games, see Black Belt (Trainer class) For the Pokéstar Studios opponent, see Pokéstar Studios opponents → Black Belt For the held item from the games, see Black Belt (item) For the Supporter card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game, see Black Belt (Triumphant 85)

Title: Magnet

The Magnet (Japanese: じしゃく Magnet) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Electric-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Electric-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Electric-type moves by 20%. In The Last Battle IV, during the final battle against the Masked Man, Lt. Surge used a Magnet to power up the moves of Raikou. Notably, the Magnet that appeared was a lodestone rather than a horseshoe magnet as seen in the games, due to the fact that this chapter was released before the Magnet was even given a proper sprite. A Magnet appears as a held item on the Stormfront Magnemite card. It causes Magnemite's retreat cost to be less for each Magnemite on the player's Bench. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Mystic Water

The Mystic Water (Japanese: しんぴのしずく Mysterious Droplet) is a type-enhancing item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Water-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Water-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Water-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Mystic Water is a Friendship Item that is received as a reward after beating the Quick League. It summons Piplup as a helper Pokémon. In The Perfect Match!, a Mystic Water was the prize given to the winner of the Whirl Cup. In Balloons, Brionne, and Belligerence!, Ida and Kanoa went on a treasure hunt for a Mystic Water in a sunken ship, with Ash, Lana, and Mallow tagging along. After Kanoa found it, he gave it to Ida as a necklace. In The Last Battle IV, during the final battle against the Masked Man, Misty used a Mystic Water to power up the moves of Suicune. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Sharp Beak

The Sharp Beak (Japanese: するどいくちばし Sharp Beak) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Flying-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Flying-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Flying-type moves by 20%. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Poison Barb

The Poison Barb (Japanese: どくバリ Poison Barb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Poison-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Poison-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Poison-type moves by 20%. Poison Barb was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sun & Moon Series (the Japanese Sun & Moon Era) in the Sun & Moon expansion. When this Trainer card is attached to the player's Active Pokémon, if an opponent deals damage to that Pokémon, the Attacking Pokémon is now Poisoned. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Spell Tag

This article is about the type-enhancing item. For the Pokémon-repelling item, see Cleanse Tag. The Spell Tag (Japanese: のろいのおふだ Cursed O-fuda) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Ghost-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Ghost-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Ghost-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Spell Tag is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 400. It summons Mimikyu as a helper Pokémon. In Pokémon Pokopia, Spell Tag appears as a small Lost Relic. The Spell Tag has been introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Lost Thunder expansion of the Sun & Moon Series of the Pokémon Trading Card Game (the Sun & Moon Era in Japan). When the -Pokémon the Spell Tag is attached to is Knocked Out by damage from an opponent's attack, it allows the owner of the K.O.'d Pokémon to put 4 damage counters on their opponent's Pokémon in any way they like. There is also a Secret print of this card in the same expansion. The Spell Tag has been featured with the "Looming Shadows" statue by First 4 Figures alongside the Gastly evolutionary line; on merchandise from the YonayonaGhost collection exclusive to the Pokémon Center; as well as on the Item Mania card sleeves. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Twisted Spoon

The Twisted Spoon (Japanese: まがったスプーン Twisted Spoon), formatted TwistedSpoon prior to Generation VI, is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Psychic-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Psychic-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Psychic-type moves by 20%. In Climbing the Tower of Success!, a Twisted Spoon appeared as an item Ricky had to find during the Wishing Bell Festival scavenger hunt. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Charcoal

Charcoal (Japanese: もくたん Charcoal) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Fire-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Fire-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Fire-type moves by 20%. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Charcoal is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 600. It summons Charizard as a helper Pokémon. Charcoal appeared in A Farfetch'd Tale. While traveling through Ilex Forest, Ash and his friends met a boy named Sylvester, who was trying to follow in his teacher's (father in the dub) footsteps in order to learn how to make "purifying charcoal". Brock explained that purifying charcoal is actually burnt wood, which can be used as fuel or to purify water and air. At the end of the episode, Ash and his friends received some charcoal as a gift. In The Last Battle IV, during the final battle against the Masked Man, Blaine used a piece of Charcoal to strengthen Entei's Fire-type moves. Charcoal has been featured in a Flareon figure released on January 16, 2025 by The Pokémon Company International. It is part of the Evolving Personalities figure line. A man in Lavaridge Town states that Charcoal is used for making herbal medicine. In-game, however, it serves no medicinal purposes. Charcoal is the only type-enhancing item that can be bought at a Poké Mart. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Dragon Fang

The Dragon Fang (Japanese: りゅうのキバ Dragon Fang) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II that boosts the power of Dragon-type moves. In the handheld games, due to a mistake, the Dragon Fang has no effect when held, its effect being possessed by the Dragon Scale instead. In Pokémon Stadium 2, it boosts the power of the holder's Dragon-type moves by 10%. In Pokémon Gold and Silver, the player must collect the Dragon Fang in Dragon's Den in order to receive the Rising Badge from Clair. If the Dragon Fang from Dragon's Den is not obtained, but the player has one anyways, usually from trading from another trainer, Clair will call the player a cheater and refuse to give the badge. Boosts the power of the holder's Dragon-type moves by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Dragon-type moves by 20%. Once the player reaches friendship level 100 with Lance in the Trainer Lodge, they can purchase a replica of a Dragon Fang in the Lodge Exchange to display in the Trainer Lodge. A Dragon Fang first appeared in Beauty is Skin Deep as the treasure of Clair's family, kept in the Blackthorn Gym. It is the fang of an ancient Dragon Pokémon that terrorized Blackthorn City. The Dragon Fang is part of a ritual with the purpose of bringing peace to all Dragon-type Pokémon. The ritual involves the Blackthorn Gym Leader placing it on a special ceremonial table, then pouring water over it, causing a light dragon to burst out of it and rise into the sky. Legend says that this light dragon becomes a star and watches over all Dragon-type Pokémon. In Fangs for Nothin', Team Rocket stole the aforementioned Dragon Fang, interrupting Ash and Clair's battle at the Blackthorn Gym. It was successfully recovered from them in the following episode. Another Dragon Fang appeared in Showdown At Linoone as one of the items Tokin had picked up. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Silk Scarf

The Silk Scarf (Japanese: シルクのスカーフ Silk Scarf) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III that boosts the power of Normal-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Normal-type moves by 10%. It also boosts the holder's confusion damage by 10%. Boosts the power of the holder's Normal-type moves by 20%. It also boosts the holder's confusion damage by 20%.

Title: Shell Bell

Shell Bell (Japanese: かいがらのすず Shell Bell) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III that gradually restores HP. It is made from Shoal Salts and Shoal Shells. Whenever the Pokémon holding it deals damage with a move, it restores HP equal to 1/8 of the damage dealt (rounded down, but not less than 1). It will not restore HP if the move inflicts no damage (e.g. using False Swipe on a Pokémon with 1 HP). If the holder uses a multistrike move, it recovers HP after each strike, considering the damage from that strike only. Future Sight and Doom Desire do not activate the Shell Bell. The Shell Bell activates even if the move only hits a Pokémon's substitute. If a Pokémon steals a Shell Bell with Thief or Covet, it will recover HP for the use of that move that stole the Shell Bell. The Shell Bell activates after the holder recovers HP with a draining move or takes damage from recoil and Rough Skin. If the holder uses a multistrike move, it recovers HP after the last strike, considering the damage from all of the strikes at once. The Shell Bell will not activate if the move only hits a Pokémon's substitute. The Shell Bell can heal a Pokémon regardless of Heal Block. The Shell Bell activates even if the move only hits a Pokémon's substitute. The Shell Bell cannot heal a Pokémon affected by Heal Block. If a Pokémon steals a Shell Bell with Magician, it will recover HP for the use of that move that stole the Shell Bell. The Shell Bell activates before Pickpocket, so even if a Pokémon's held Shell Bell is stolen by Pickpocket it still restores HP for that move. The Shell Bell activates after the holder takes damage from Iron Barbs and the Rocky Helmet. Shell Bell's recovery is skipped if the move was boosted by Sheer Force. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Shell Bell is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 500. It summons Greninja as a helper Pokémon. In Pokémon UNITE, Shell Bell is a held item that makes the user restore user's HP when landing move, with a 10s cooldown, while also increasing their Sp. Atk and CD Reduction. Each hit recovers HP equivalent to 45/60/75 + 35/40/45% of user's Sp. Attack at Grades 1, 10, and 20 respectively. At Grade 1, this item increases Sp. Attack by 1.6 and reduces CD by 0%, and by 24 and 4.5% at 30. A Shell Bell appeared in The Slugma-Powered Home on a fireplace at Anna's grandparents' house. The Shell Bell has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sea Incense

The Sea Incense (Japanese: うしおのおこう Seawater Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IX, it was an incense that allowed Marill and Azumarill to produce Azurill Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Mystic Water. Boosts the power of the holder's Water-type moves by 5%. Boosts the power of the holder's Water-type moves by 20%. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Marill Egg, an Azurill Egg is produced instead. This and the Wave Incense are the only two incenses to have the exact same effect in battle.

Title: Lax Incense

The Lax Incense (Japanese: のんきのおこう Carefree Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It is an incense that allows Wobbuffet to produce Wynaut Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Bright Powder. Reduces the accuracy of moves targeting the holder by 5% of what their accuracy would be otherwise. Reduces the accuracy of moves targeting the holder by 10% of what their accuracy would be otherwise. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Wobbuffet Egg, a Wynaut Egg is produced instead. A Lax Incence appeared in PT10, when a boy was brushing his Primeape. This incense shares the name of a nature in English, French, Japanese, Korean, and Chinese. In French, the nature is Mild, and in Japanese, Korean, and Chinese, the nature is Relaxed. Coincidentally, each nature affects the Defense stat one way or the other and none of them affect the Attack stat.

Title: Lucky Punch

The Lucky Punch (Japanese: ラッキーパンチ Lucky Punch) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It boosts the critical hit ratio of a Chansey that holds it. If held by a Chansey, or a Pokémon transformed into one, increases its critical hit ratio by two stages. In Gold, Silver, and Crystal, being transformed does not grant this benefit. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Metal Powder

The Metal Powder (Japanese: メタルパウダー Metal Powder) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It boosts the Defense stat of a Ditto that holds it. If held by a Ditto, increases its Defense and Special Defense by 50%, even when transformed. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Metal Powder only increases Ditto's Defense and Special Defense when it is not transformed. If held by a Ditto, doubles its Defense stat. It does not work when Ditto is transformed. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Thick Club

The Thick Club (Japanese: ふといホネ Thick Bone) is a type of held item introduced in Generation II. It boosts the Attack stat of a Cubone or Marowak that holds it. If held by Cubone or either form of Marowak, or a Pokémon transformed into one, doubles its Attack stat. In Gold, Silver, and Crystal, being transformed does not apply this benefit. In Gold, Silver, and Crystal, if a Pokémon's stat reaches 1024 or higher (such as due to a held Thick Club), it will be reduced to its value modulo 1024. Two Thick Clubs appeared in Showdown At Linoone amongst the items Tokin had picked up. One of them resembled the bone held by Marowak, while the other resembled that of Cubone. Until Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Rare Bone and Thick Club shared the same Bag sprite. Generation II – III – IV – V – VI – VII – VIII – IX

Title: Red Scarf

The Red Scarf (Japanese: あかいバンダナ Red Bandanna) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It increases the holder's Coolness in a Pokémon Contest. When held by a Pokémon, it raises its Coolness in the primary round of a Pokémon Contest, the Visual Competition of a Super Contest, and the Introduction Round of a Contest Spectacular. In Generation III, it is raised by 20 points, up to a total of 255 points. Before competing in the Master Rank Contest, Ruby was given all five scarves, which he used to enhance the respective conditions of five of his Pokémon, leading all of them to win the Contest and fulfilling Ruby's part of the 80-day challenge with Sapphire. He used the Red Scarf to enhance Nana's Coolness. The various Manaphy distributions having a Red Scarf as a held item may be a reference to May's bandana held by Manaphy in the movie Pokémon Ranger and the Temple of the Sea.

Title: Blue Scarf

The Blue Scarf (Japanese: あおいバンダナ Blue Bandanna) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It increases the holder's Beauty in a Pokémon Contest. When held by a Pokémon, it raises its Beauty in the primary round of a Pokémon Contest, the Visual Competition of a Super Contest, and the Introduction Round of a Contest Spectacular. In Generation III, it is raised by 20 points, up to a total of 255 points. Before competing in the Master Rank Contest, Ruby was given all five scarves, which he used to enhance the respective conditions of five of his Pokémon, leading all of them to win the Contest and fulfilling Ruby's part of the 80-day challenge with Sapphire. He used the Blue Scarf to enhance Feefee's Beauty.

Title: Pink Scarf

The Pink Scarf (Japanese: ピンクのバンダナ Pink Bandanna) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It increases the holder's Cuteness in a Pokémon Contest. When held by a Pokémon, it raises its Cuteness in the primary round of a Pokémon Contest, the Visual Competition of a Super Contest, and the Introduction Round of a Contest Spectacular. In Generation III, it is raised by 20 points, up to a total of 255 points. Before competing in the Master Rank Contest, Ruby was given all five scarves, which he used to enhance the respective conditions of five of his Pokémon, leading all of them to win the Contest and fulfilling Ruby's part of the 80-day challenge with Sapphire. He used the Pink Scarf to enhance Kiki's Cuteness.

Title: Green Scarf

The Green Scarf (Japanese: みどりのバンダナ Green Bandanna) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It increases the holder's Cleverness in a Pokémon Contest. When held by a Pokémon, it raises its Cleverness in the primary round of a Pokémon Contest, the Visual Competition of a Super Contest, and the Introduction Round of a Contest Spectacular. In Generation III, it is raised by 20 points, up to a total of 255 points. Before competing in the Master Rank Contest, Ruby was given all five scarves, which he used to enhance the respective conditions of five of his Pokémon, leading all of them to win the Contest and fulfilling Ruby's part of the 80-day challenge with Sapphire. He used the Green Scarf to enhance Fofo's Smartness.

Title: Yellow Scarf

The Yellow Scarf (Japanese: きいろのバンダナ Yellow Bandanna) is a type of held item introduced in Generation III. It increases the holder's Toughness in a Pokémon Contest. When held by a Pokémon, it raises its Toughness in the primary round of a Pokémon Contest, the Visual Competition of a Super Contest, and the Introduction Round of a Contest Spectacular. In Generation III, it is raised by 20 points, up to a total of 255 points. Before competing in the Master Rank Contest, Ruby was given all five scarves, which he used to enhance the respective conditions of five of his Pokémon, leading all of them to win the Contest and fulfilling Ruby's part of the 80-day challenge with Sapphire. He used the Yellow Scarf to enhance Mumu's Toughness.

Title: Wide Lens

The Wide Lens (Japanese: こうかくレンズ Wide-Angle Lens) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV that slightly boosts the holder's accuracy. Boosts the holder's accuracy by 10% (approximated as 4505/4096 from Generation V onward). Wide Lens was introduced as an Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese XY Era. It was first released in the Japanese Emerald Break expansion before debuting in English in the Roaring Skies expansion. When this Pokémon Tool card is attached to a Pokémon, that Pokémon's moves that target Benched Pokémon apply Weakness and Resistance, which is typically ignored for Benched Pokémon.

Title: Muscle Band

The Muscle Band (Japanese: ちからのハチマキ Power Headband) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the power of the holder's physical moves. Boosts the power of the holder's physical moves by 10% (approximated as a multiplier of 4505/4096 from Generation V to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet). In Pokémon UNITE, the Muscle Band is a held item that causes the user to deal additional damage with basic attacks based on the target's remaining HP (with 0.35s cooldown for each target) and increases their Attack and Attack Speed. The damage increase is 1/2/3% of the target's remaining HP, but no more than 120/240/360, at grades 1, 10, and 20 respectively. Attack and Attack Speed is increased by 1 and 0% at Grade 1 and by 15 and 7.5% at Grade 30. Muscle Band was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era) in the XY expansion. The attacks of the Pokémon Muscle Band is attached to do 20 more damage to the opponent's Active Pokémon (before applying Weakness and Resistance). Additionally, a Muscle Band appeared in the artwork of Pikachu (BW-P Promo 120).

Title: Wise Glasses

Wise Glasses (Japanese: ものしりメガネ Wise Glasses) are a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the power of the holder's special moves. Boosts the power of the holder's special moves by 10% (approximated as a multiplier of 4505/4096 from Generation V to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet). In Pokémon UNITE, the Wise Glasses are a held item that increases user Sp. Attack, both additively and multiplicatively. The additive increase is +10 at Grade 1 and +39 at Grade 30, while the multiplicative increase is 3/5/7% at Grade 1, 10, and 20 respectively.

Title: Expert Belt

The Expert Belt (Japanese: たつじんのおび Expert Obi) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV that strengthens supereffective attacks. Boosts the damage of the holder's supereffective moves by 20% (approximated as a multiplier of 4915/4096 from Generation V to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet). In Toasty!! Battle Against Toxapex, Sonia was revealed to have found an Expert Belt in Turffield after following the hints she received from a little girl. In Stealth!! Infiltrate the Energy Plant, she was revealed to have given it to Henry, who gave it to his Sirfetch'd, Lancelot, to hold during his Gym battle against Opal. Expert Belt was introduced as a Pokémon Tool Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Diamond & Pearl Series (the Japanese DP Era) in the Arceus expansion. The Pokémon this card is attached to gets +20 HP and that Pokémon's attacks do 20 more damage to the opposing Active Pokémon (before applying Weakness and Resistance). However, when the Pokémon this card is attached to is Knocked Out, the opponent takes 1 more Prize card.

Title: Light Clay

The Light Clay (Japanese: ひかりのねんど Light Clay) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. If the Pokémon holding this item uses Light Screen, Reflect, or Aurora Veil, the effects of those moves last eight turns instead of five turns. If one of these moves is stolen by Snatch, the duration depends on whether the Pokémon that ultimately uses the move holds the Light Clay (regardless of whether the original user held it). In the Generation VII games, if these effects have their duration extended by the Light Clay, the turn counter on the user interface for these effects will indicate that it lasts for 8 turns for the player whose Pokémon used the move, while it will display that it lasts for 5 turns for their opponent. After 5 turns of that effect have passed, the user interface will display that it lasts for 8 turns for both players.

Title: Life Orb

The Life Orb (Japanese: いのちのたま Life Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the power of the holder's moves, but causes it to take damage when using damaging moves. Boosts the damage dealt by the holder's damaging moves by 30%. The holder takes damage equal to 10% of its maximum HP after it uses a damaging move (rounded down, but not less than 1). It does not boost the power of moves that do not use the damage formula (although the holder still takes damage) or self-inflicted confusion damage. If a Pokémon steals a Life Orb with Thief or Covet, then the Life Orb does not boost the power, but the attacker takes damage for the use of that move that stole the Life Orb. The Life Orb activates before Pickpocket, so even if a Pokémon's held Life Orb is stolen by Pickpocket, it still damages the attacking Pokémon for that move. If a Pokémon steals a Life Orb with Magician, it will take damage for the use of that move that stole the Life Orb. If the holder uses Fling, then Life Orb boosts the power but doesn't damage the user. The Life Orb activates after the holder takes damage from Iron Barbs and the Rocky Helmet. The Life Orb activates after the holder recovers HP with a draining move or takes damage from recoil and Rough Skin. If the holder uses a multistrike move, it takes damage after the last strike. As the Life Orb inflicts indirect damage, Magic Guard prevents a Pokémon from taking damage from the Life Orb. If a Pokémon with Sheer Force uses a move boosted by that Ability, it does not take damage from Life Orb for that move. For Dynamax Pokémon, the damage is equal to 10% of the Pokémon's non-Dynamax maximum HP. The Life Orb damages its holder without displaying any message. Future Sight and Doom Desire do not cause the user to take damage. It does not cause damage to the holder when hitting a substitute. The 30% damage boost starting from this generation is approximated as a factor of 5324/4096 (except in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, where the multiplier is again exactly 1.3). The Life Orb now displays a message when it inflicts damage. If a Pokémon is holding a Life Orb when Future Sight or Doom Desire that it used inflicts damage (even if it was not holding the Life Orb when it used the move), it takes damage for the Life Orb. Life Orb now causes damage to the holder when hitting a substitute. The Life Orb does increase the damage dealt from Future Sight and Doom Desire.

Title: Power Herb

The Power Herb (Japanese: パワフルハーブ Powerful Herb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows the holder to execute a move with a charging turn in one turn. If the holder uses a move that has a charging turn (except Sky Drop), immediately after charging the move the user consumes the Power Herb and executes the final stage of the move. Because the charging stage is still performed, the Defense boost from Skull Bash and the Special Attack boost from Meteor Beam and Electro Shot are still applied. If a Pokémon uses Solar Beam or Solar Blade during harsh sunlight or Electro Shot during rain, it will not consume its held Power Herb. In The Tournament Continues, Cheren's Unfezant used a Power Herb to bypass the charging turn of his Sky Attack and quickly defeat Leo's Deino. In Flash and Cosmog's Secret, Moon deduced that the Totem Lurantis she was battling for training was holding a Power Herb, due to it being able to use Solar Blade without charging up first.

Title: Toxic Orb

The Toxic Orb (Japanese: どくどくだま Toxic Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It badly poisons the holder. At the end of the turn, the Toxic Orb badly poisons its holder. The Toxic Orb activates after the Pokémon would take damage from poison, so it does not take poison damage the turn it is poisoned by the Toxic Orb. The Toxic Orb activates after a Pokémon is cured of its status condition by affection, Hydration, or Shed Skin. It can poison a Poison-type or Steel-type holder if its Ability is Corrosion.

Title: Flame Orb

The Flame Orb (Japanese: かえんだま Flame Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It burns the holder. At the end of the turn, the Flame Orb burns its holder. The Flame Orb activates after the Pokémon would take damage from burn, so it does not take burn damage the turn it is burned by the Flame Orb. The Flame Orb activates after a Pokémon is cured of its status condition by affection, Hydration, or Shed Skin.

Title: Quick Powder

The Quick Powder (Japanese: スピードパウダー Speed Powder) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the Speed stat of a Ditto that holds it. If held by a Ditto, doubles its Speed stat. It does not work when Ditto is transformed.

Title: Focus Sash

The Focus Sash (Japanese: きあいのタスキ Fighting Spirit Sash) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV that prevents the holder from fainting in one hit. If the holder has full HP and is hit by a move that would otherwise cause fainting (including a one-hit knockout move), the Focus Sash will enable it to survive with 1 HP. The Focus Sash can also protect against self-inflicted confusion damage. It can protect from all strikes of a multistrike move, but not from damage from Future Sight or Doom Desire. Once used up, the Focus Sash disappears. From Generation V on, the Focus Sash will only protect its holder from the first strike of a multistrike move. A used-up Focus Sash will now replenish after battle. In Walkthrough! Battle Tower!!, Yū had given his Infernape a Focus Sash to hold, allowing it to survive a Golem's Earthquake at the Battle Tower and then defeat it with a Grass Knot. A Focus Sash was seen being used by Darach's Houndoom in Getting the Drop on Gallade II, which allowed it to survive a supereffective Focus Blast from Platinum's Lopunny. In the same chapter, Platinum was revealed to have rented a Focus Sash for her Empoleon to hold in the Battle Castle. The Focus Sash was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era). It was released in the Japanese Rising Fist expansion and the English Furious Fists expansion, with artwork by Toyste Beach. In Japan, it was later reprinted in The Best of XY subset. If a Fighting-type card Pokémon with this card attached has full HP and would be Knocked Out by damage from an attack from the opponent's Pokémon, it is not Knocked Out and instead its remaining HP becomes 10. Afterwards, the card is removed from the Pokémon and discarded. The Focus Sash has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Zoom Lens

The Zoom Lens (Japanese: フォーカスレンズ Focus Lens) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV that boosts the holder's accuracy. Boosts the holder's accuracy by 20% (a factor of 4915/4096 in Generation V onward) against targets that have already used a move in the same turn. In Magnificent Meditite & Really Riolu I, a Zoom Lens was a prize Diamond won in the Veilstone Game Corner using the Coins Platinum won from the slot machines. Platinum tried the Zoom Lens on Chimler for training. In Diamond and Pearl, the description incorrectly states that the Zoom Lens boosts the critical hit ratio rather than accuracy.

Title: Metronome

For the move introduced in Generation I, see Metronome (move) For the held item in the Pokémon games, see Metronome (item) For the application for the e-Reader, see Metronome (e-Reader)

Title: Iron Ball

The Iron Ball (Japanese: くろいてっきゅう Black Iron Ball) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It grounds the holder and lowers its Speed. The Iron Ball halves the holder's Speed and makes it grounded. Due to being grounded, it becomes susceptible to damaging Ground-type moves; Rototiller; Arena Trap; the entry hazards Spikes, Toxic Spikes and Sticky Web; and terrain, even if it is Flying-type, has the Ability Levitate, or is under the effect of Telekinesis or Magnet Rise. An Iron Ball does not prevent Magnet Rise or Telekinesis from being used successfully. If held by a Flying-type Pokémon, it takes 1× damage from Ground-type moves if its secondary type is not weak to or resists Ground-type attacks. Even if the holder has Klutz or is affected by Embargo, its Speed is still halved by the Iron Ball. If held by a Flying-type Pokémon, it takes 1× damage from Ground-type moves, regardless of its other types. This does not apply during Inverse Battles or if the holder is grounded by any other effect. All of the effects of the Iron Ball are negated by Klutz, Embargo, and Magic Room. Diamond and Pearl found an Iron Ball amongst the metal items drawn out of the ground in Celestic Town by the magnetic field from Cyrus's Magnezone. It later appeared as an item that was used in conjunction with Lax's Fling in Platinum's Gym battle against Fantina in Mirages of Mismagius II. The Iron Ball enables Fling to reach its highest base power of 130. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, this status is matched by TR43 (Overheat) and TR71 (Leaf Storm), which contain moves with 130 base power. Starting from the same games, Big Nugget also shares this status. In Pokkén Tournament, if the chosen character is Machamp, sometimes it will throw two Iron Balls three times before the fight begins.

Title: Lagging Tail

The Lagging Tail (Japanese: こうこうのしっぽ Second-Batter Tail) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV that delays the holder's turn. Forces the holder to move last in its priority bracket, regardless of its Speed. This item is unaffected by Trick Room. If a Lagging Tail is gained, lost, or suppressed, then it will not affect turn order until the beginning of the next turn. If multiple Pokémon holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense use moves with the same priority, the Pokémon with the lower Speed will move first (regardless of Trick Room). A Pokémon with Stall moves before Pokémon holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense. If a Pokémon with Stall also holds a Lagging Tail or Full Incense, Stall does not affect when the Pokémon moves. If multiple Pokémon with the Ability Stall or that are holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense use moves with the same priority, the Pokémon move relatively according to Speed (the order is reversed during Trick Room).

Title: Destiny Knot

The Destiny Knot (Japanese: あかいいと Red Thread) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. If the holder becomes infatuated, the Pokémon that the holder is in love with becomes infatuated as well. From Generation VI onward, if held by a Pokémon in a Day Care, Nursery, or during a picnic, any Eggs produced by that Pokémon will inherit 5 of their individual values (IVs) at random from either of their parents, instead of the 3 they normally would. Each IV is independently inherited from a random parent.

Title: Black Sludge

The Black Sludge (Japanese: くろいヘドロ Black Sludge) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It heals the holder if it is Poison-type, but damages the holder otherwise. If currently held by a Poison-type Pokémon, the holder restores 1/16 of its maximum HP (rounded down, but not less than 1) at the end of each turn. If currently held by a Pokémon that is not Poison-type, the holder takes damage equal to 1/8 of its maximum HP (rounded down, but not less than 1) at the end of each turn. Pokémon with the Ability Magic Guard are immune to this damage. In Generation IV, Black Sludge is able to heal the holder regardless of Heal Block. From Generation V onwards, Black Sludge cannot heal Pokémon affected by Heal Block. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Black Sludge is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 600. It summons Gengar as a helper Pokémon.

Title: Icy Rock

The Icy Rock (Japanese: つめたいいわ Icy Rock) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It extends the duration of hail or snow. If the Pokémon holding this item creates hail with the moves Hail or Max Hailstorm, or the Ability Snow Warning (starting from Generation VI), it lasts eight turns instead of five turns. In Generation IX, it instead affects a Pokémon creating snow with the moves Snowscape or Chilly Reception, or the Ability Snow Warning, as hail is not present in these games. In the Generation VII games, if hail has its duration extended by the Icy Rock, the turn counter on the user interface for these effects will indicate that it lasts for 8 turns for the player whose Pokémon used the move, while it will display that it lasts for 5 turns for their opponent. After 5 turns of hail have passed, the user interface will display that it lasts for 8 turns for both players. In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, if held by a nicknamed Regice in the party, along with Regirock and Registeel, allows to spawn Regigigas in Island Cave, except at night or before defeating/catching Groudon/Kyogre. An Icy Rock is an ingredient that can be used in cooking to attract wild Pokémon in Pokémon Quest. It is considered a blue ingredient that is hard, precious, and a mineral. Icy Rock is a possible ingredient that can be obtained by completing expeditions on Tumblecube Island. As they are blue, Icy Rocks are most commonly found in the areas Backforth Brook, Belly Button Cave, and Hushed Highlands. They can also be obtained randomly by recycling Power Stones.

Title: Smooth Rock

The Smooth Rock (Japanese: さらさらいわ Smooth Rock) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It extends the duration of sandstorm. If the Pokémon holding this item creates a sandstorm with the moves Sandstorm or Max Rockfall, or the Abilities Sand Stream or Sand Spit, it lasts eight turns instead of five turns. (Prior to Generation VI, it has no effect on Sand Stream, which creates a sandstorm with indefinite length in those games.) In the Generation VII games, if a sandstorm has its duration extended by the Smooth Rock, the turn counter on the user interface for these effects will indicate that it lasts for 8 turns for the player whose Pokémon used the move, while it will display that it lasts for 5 turns for their opponent. After 5 turns of sandstorm have passed, the user interface will display that it lasts for 8 turns for both players.

Title: Heat Rock

The Heat Rock (Japanese: あついいわ Hot Rock) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It extends the duration of harsh sunlight. If the Pokémon holding this item creates harsh sunlight with the moves Sunny Day or Max Flare, or the Abilities Drought or Orichalcum Pulse, it lasts eight turns instead of five turns. (Prior to Generation VI, it has no effect on Drought, which creates harsh sunlight with indefinite length in those games.) In the Generation VII games, if harsh sunlight has its duration extended by the Heat Rock, the turn counter on the user interface for these effects will indicate that it lasts for 8 turns for the player whose Pokémon used the move, while it will display that it lasts for 5 turns for their opponent. After 5 turns of harsh sunlight have passed, the user interface will display that it lasts for 8 turns for both players.

Title: Damp Rock

The Damp Rock (Japanese: しめったいわ Damp Rock) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It extends the duration of rain. If the Pokémon holding this item creates rain with the moves Rain Dance or Max Geyser, or the Ability Drizzle, it lasts eight turns instead of five turns. (Prior to Generation VI, it has no effect on Drizzle, which creates rain with indefinite length in those games.) In the Generation VII games, if rain has its duration extended by the Damp Rock, the turn counter on the user interface for these effects will indicate that it lasts for 8 turns for the player whose Pokémon used the move, while it will display that it lasts for 5 turns for their opponent. After 5 turns of rain have passed, the user interface will display that it lasts for 8 turns for both players. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Damp Rock is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 350. It summons Slowpoke as a helper Pokémon. The Damp Rock is the held item featured alongside Pelipper in the Pokémon Held Item Pins line by The Pokémon Company International.

Title: Grip Claw

The Grip Claw (Japanese: ねばりのかぎづめ Grip Claw) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. When held by a Pokémon, it causes binding moves used by the holder to always bind for 5 turns. When held by a Pokémon, it causes binding moves used by the holder to always bind for 7 turns.

Title: Choice Scarf

The Choice Scarf (Japanese: こだわりスカーフ Fixation Scarf) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the holder's Speed, but locks it into only using one move. It has two counterparts that boost different stats: Choice Band and Choice Specs. When held by a Pokémon, it boosts the Pokémon's Speed by 50%, but only allows the use of the first move selected. This effect resets when the holder is withdrawn. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, due to a glitch, if a Pokémon uses U-turn and switches into a Pokémon holding a Choice Scarf that also knows U-turn, that Pokémon will be locked into U-turn. This was fixed in subsequent games. From Generation V onward, if a Pokémon is already locked into a move due to a held Choice Scarf, if the held Choice Scarf is removed while its effect is negated, the Pokémon will be affected by the Choice item lock glitch. If a Pokémon holding a Choice Scarf uses a move other than the one it's locked into (such as through Instruct or Dancer), the move will fail and no PP will be deducted. If a Pokémon holding a Choice Scarf Dynamaxes, the item will temporarily have no effect; the stat boost will be disabled, and the Pokémon will no longer be subject to move locks. After the Dynamax ends, the stat boost is restored, and any previous move lock will be re-enabled. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Choice Scarf is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 600. It summons Gardevoir as a helper Pokémon. The Choice Scarf has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sticky Barb

The Sticky Barb (Japanese: くっつきバリ Sticky Barb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It damages its holder at the end of each turn, but changes holders on contact. At the end of the turn, the Sticky Barb damages the holder by 12.5% of its maximum HP each turn. If a Pokémon with no held item hits a Pokémon holding a Sticky Barb with a contact move, including Knock Off, the Sticky Barb will transfer to the Pokémon that used the move (even if the original holder has the Sticky Hold Ability). If the transfer target has a substitute, Sticky Barb will not transfer. The Sticky Barb does not damage Pokémon with the Ability Magic Guard.

Title: Power Bracer

The Power Bracer (Japanese: パワーリスト Power Wrist) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Power item that gives Attack effort values to the holder whenever it gains experience. A Pokémon holding this item gains 4 Attack EVs whenever it gains experience in battle (EVs are awarded for each Pokémon knocked out in Horde Battles despite experience being gained all at once); its effect is doubled by Pokérus. (In Generation IV, level 100 Pokémon cannot gain EVs in battle; from Generation V onward, they gain EVs whenever they would earn experience.) The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved during battle. A Pokémon holding this item now gains 8 Attack EVs instead of 4 whenever it gains experience in battle. From Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver onward, if this item is held by a parent when breeding at Pokémon Day Care or a Pokémon Nursery, the Attack IV of a parent holding a Power Bracer will always be passed down to the child. If both parents hold a Power Bracer, one parent will be selected at random to pass down its Attack IV.

Title: Power Belt

The Power Belt (Japanese: パワーベルト Power Belt) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Power item that gives Defense effort values to the holder whenever it gains experience. A Pokémon holding this item gains 4 Defense EVs whenever it gains experience in battle (EVs are awarded for each Pokémon knocked out in Horde Battles despite experience being gained all at once); its effect is doubled by Pokérus. (In Generation IV, level 100 Pokémon cannot gain EVs in battle; from Generation V onward, they gain EVs whenever they would earn experience.) The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved in battle. A Pokémon holding this item now gains 8 Defense EVs instead of 4 whenever it gains experience during battle. From Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver onward, if this item is held by a parent when breeding at Pokémon Day Care or a Pokémon Nursery, the Defense IV of a parent holding a Power Belt will always be passed down to the child. If both parents hold a Power Belt, one parent will be selected at random to pass down its Defense IV.

Title: Power Lens

The Power Lens (Japanese: パワーレンズ Power Lens) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Power item that gives Special Attack effort values to the holder whenever it gains experience. A Pokémon holding this item gains 4 Special Attack EVs whenever it gains experience in battle (EVs are awarded for each Pokémon knocked out in Horde Battles despite experience being gained all at once); its effect is doubled by Pokérus. (In Generation IV, level 100 Pokémon cannot gain EVs in battle; from Generation V onward, they gain EVs whenever they would earn experience.) The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved in battle. A Pokémon holding this item now gains 8 Special Attack EVs instead of 4 whenever it gains experience during battle. From Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver onward, if this item is held by a parent when breeding at Pokémon Day Care or a Pokémon Nursery, the Special Attack IV of a parent holding a Power Lens will always be passed down to the child. If both parents hold a Power Lens, one parent will be selected at random to pass down its Special Attack IV.

Title: Power Band

If you were looking for the item in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon, see Scarf (Mystery Dungeon) → Power Band. The Power Band (Japanese: パワーバンド Power Band) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Power item that gives Special Defense effort values to the holder whenever it gains experience. A Pokémon holding this item gains 4 Special Defense EVs whenever it gains experience in battle (EVs are awarded for each Pokémon knocked out in Horde Battles despite experience being gained all at once); its effect is doubled by Pokérus. (In Generation IV, level 100 Pokémon cannot gain EVs in battle; from Generation V onward, they gain EVs whenever they would earn experience.) The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved in battle. A Pokémon holding this item now gains 8 Special Defense EVs instead of 4 whenever it gains experience during battle. From Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver onward, if this item is held by a parent when breeding at Pokémon Day Care or a Pokémon Nursery, the Special Defense IV of a parent holding a Power Band will always be passed down to the child. If both parents hold a Power Band, one parent will be selected at random to pass down its Special Defense IV.

Title: Power Anklet

The Power Anklet (Japanese: パワーアンクル Power Ankle) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Power item that gives Speed effort values to the holder whenever it gains experience. A Pokémon holding this item gains 4 Speed EVs whenever it gains experience in battle (EVs are awarded for each Pokémon knocked out in Horde Battles despite experience being gained all at once); its effect is doubled by Pokérus. (In Generation IV, level 100 Pokémon cannot gain EVs in battle; from Generation V onward, they gain EVs whenever they would earn experience.) The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved in battle. A Pokémon holding this item now gains 8 Speed EVs instead of 4 whenever it gains experience during battle. From Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver onward, if this item is held by a parent when breeding at Pokémon Day Care or a Pokémon Nursery, the Speed IV of a parent holding a Power Anklet will always be passed down to the child. If both parents hold a Power Anklet, one parent will be selected at random to pass down its Speed IV.

Title: Power Weight

The Power Weight (Japanese: パワーウエイト Power Weight) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Power item that gives HP effort values to the holder whenever it gains experience. A Pokémon holding this item gains 4 HP EVs whenever it gains experience in battle (EVs are awarded for each Pokémon knocked out in Horde Battles despite experience being gained all at once); its effect is doubled by Pokérus. (In Generation IV, level 100 Pokémon cannot gain EVs in battle; from Generation V onward, they gain EVs whenever they would earn experience.) The Speed stat of the Pokémon holding this item is halved during battle. A Pokémon holding this item now gains 8 HP EVs instead of 4 whenever it gains experience in battle. From Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver onward, if this item is held by a parent when breeding at Pokémon Day Care or a Pokémon Nursery, the HP IV of a parent holding a Power Weight will always be passed down to the child. If both parents hold a Power Weight, one parent will be selected at random to pass down its HP IV. Main article: Cynthia's Power Weight (Destined Rivals 162) The Power Weight item was introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game as the Pokémon Tool card Cynthia's Power Weight, released during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was first released in the Japanese Hot Wind Arena subset and the English Destined Rivals expansion with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. It is a card that exclusively benefits the "Cynthia" Trainer's Pokémon archetype in the TCG, increasing the maximum HP of the Cynthia's Pokémon the card is attached to by 70.

Title: Shed Shell

The Shed Shell (Japanese: きれいなぬけがら Pretty Shed Shell) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows the holder to switch out regardless of trapping moves and Abilities. Allows the holder to switch out (but not flee or Teleport) even if it is under the effect of a trapping move or Ability. The Shed Shell allows the holder to switch out regardless of even self-inflicted effects, such as Ingrain.

Title: Big Root

The Big Root (Japanese: おおきなねっこ Big Root) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. If a Pokémon holding a Big Root uses a draining move or Strength Sap, it restores 30% more HP than it otherwise would. Additionally, a Pokémon holding a Big Root regains 30% more HP from Leech Seed, Ingrain and Aqua Ring. In Generation V onwards, the factor is 5324/4096. The Big Root also increases the damage taken by the holder from Liquid Ooze. A Big Root is an ingredient that can be used in cooking to attract wild Pokémon in Pokémon Quest. Big Root is a possible ingredient that can be obtained by completing expeditions. It can also be obtained randomly by recycling Power Stones. The description of the Big Root states that it "boosts the power of HP-stealing moves" when it actually only increases the amount of HP the user restores without increasing the damage done to the target. The description was not corrected until Pokémon Sun and Moon.

Title: Choice Specs

The Choice Specs (Japanese: こだわりメガネ Fixation Glasses) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It boosts the holder's Special Attack, but locks it into only using one move. It has two counterparts that boost different stats: Choice Band and Choice Scarf. When held by a Pokémon, it boosts the Pokémon's Special Attack by 50%, but only allows the use of the first move selected. This effect resets when the holder is withdrawn. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, due to a glitch, if a Pokémon uses U-turn and switches into a Pokémon holding Choice Specs that also knows U-turn, that Pokémon will be locked into U-turn. This was fixed in subsequent games. From Generation V onward, if a Pokémon is already locked into a move due to held Choice Specs, if the held Choice Specs is removed while its effect is negated, the Pokémon will be affected by the Choice item lock glitch. If a Pokémon holding Choice Specs uses a move other than the one it's locked into (such as through Instruct or Dancer), the move will fail and no PP will be deducted. Dynamax Pokémon are unaffected by Choice Specs (both the move-lock effect and the stat boost). If a Pokémon is locked into a move due to Choice Specs and then Dynamaxes, when the Dynamax ends, the Pokémon once again can only use the move it was already locked into. In Pokémon UNITE, the Choice Specs are a held item that increased damage to a single target every 8s. The damage increase is 40/50/60 + 30/35/40% of Sp. Attack, at grades 1, 10, and 20 respectively. This item also increases Sp. Attack: +10 at Grade 1 and +39 at Grade 30. In Yū vs. Shin, Rival Showdown!!, Shin had given his Wailord a pair of Choice Specs to hold, allowing its powered-up Water Spout to defeat Yū's Heatran. However, this strategy was turned against Shin when Yū used his Quagsire, whose Water Absorb Ability rendered Water Spout useless, thus allowing Yū to snatch a victory from his rival. The Choice Specs have been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Flame Plate

The Flame Plate (Japanese: ひのたまプレート Fireball Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Fire-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Fire-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Fire-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Fire-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Flame Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Fire type. The Flame Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The power of defeated giants infuses this Plate." In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, the Flame Plate is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 250. It summons Litten as a helper Pokémon. The Flame Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor that threatened what would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus. This gave it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Flame Plate, alongside the Splash Plate and Earth Plate, appeared in a flashback in the movie Hoopa and the Clash of Ages, where Ghris was seen using their combined powers to create the Prison Bottle. In The Arceus Chronicles (Part 1), Team Galactic was revealed to have acquired a Flame Plate, which they used, along with the Heatran Saturn had caught, to power a device a that would bring back Cyrus. However, in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 2), the machine overloaded and backfired, causing Heatran to go on a rampage and swallow the Flame Plate. In The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), the Flame Plate was recovered by Arceus. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Flame Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR3 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Splash Plate

The Splash Plate (Japanese: しずくプレート Water Drop Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Water-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Water-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Water-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Water-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Splash Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Water type. The Splash Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The rightful bearer of a Plate draws from the Plate it holds." In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Splash Plate is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 500. It summons Popplio as a helper Pokémon. The Splash Plate, alongside the Draco Plate and Iron Plate, debuted in Journey to the Unown!, where Saturn and two Team Galactic Grunts placed them in a room located in the Solaceon Ruins, in order to obtain the Spear Key and awaken the Unown there. The Plates were used to power up the three types of Palkia and Dialga (Dragon, Steel, and Water) combined. The Splash Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared again in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered the land that would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. That act earned its trust and prompted it to detach the Earth Plate, Splash Plate, Meadow Plate, Zap Plate, and Draco Plate in the form of the Jewel of Life so Damos could make the land flourish. The Splash Plate was included in the Jewel of Life to represent water. The Splash Plate, alongside the Flame Plate and Earth Plate, appeared in a flashback in Hoopa and the Clash of Ages, where Ghris was seen using their combined powers to create the Prison Bottle. In The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), Arceus chose the Splash Plate from amongst its 17 Plates to gain the Water typing and confine a rampaging Heatran in a dome of water. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Splash Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR4 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Zap Plate

The Zap Plate (Japanese: いかずちプレート Lightning Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Electric-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes an Electric-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Electric-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Electric-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Zap Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Electric type. The Zap Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The third being raged, raining down bolts of anger." The Zap Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered the land that would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. That act earned its trust and prompted it to detach the Earth Plate, Splash Plate, Meadow Plate, Zap Plate, and Draco Plate in the form of the Jewel of Life so Damos could make the land flourish. The Zap Plate was included in the Jewel of Life to bind the energies of the Earth, Splash, and Meadow Plates together. The Zap Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Zap Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR6 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Meadow Plate

The Meadow Plate (Japanese: みどりのプレート Verdure Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Grass-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Grass-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Grass-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Grass-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Meadow Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Grass type. The Meadow Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The powers of Plates are shared among Pokémon." In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, the Meadow Plate is a Friendship Item that can be purchased for 450. It summons Rowlet as a helper Pokémon. The Meadow Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered the land that would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. That act earned its trust and prompted it to detach the Earth Plate, Splash Plate, Meadow Plate, Zap Plate, and Draco Plate in the form of the Jewel of Life so Damos could make the land flourish. The Meadow Plate was included in the Jewel of Life to represent grass and other plant life. The Meadow Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Meadow Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR2 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Icicle Plate

The Icicle Plate (Japanese: つららのプレート Icicle Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Ice-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes an Ice-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Ice-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Ice-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Icicle Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Ice type. The Icicle Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "Two beings of time and space set free from the Original One." The Icicle Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered the land that would eventually become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Icicle Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus.

Title: Fist Plate

The Fist Plate (Japanese: こぶしのプレート Fist Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Fighting-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Fighting-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Fighting-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Fighting-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Fist Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Fighting type. The Fist Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The rift is born of disorder on the other side of this world." The Fist Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor that endangered what would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus. This gave it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Fist Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus.

Title: Toxic Plate

The Toxic Plate (Japanese: もうどくプレート Toxic Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Poison-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Poison-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Poison-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Poison-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Toxic Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Poison type. The Toxic Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The rules of time and space change within the opposite world." The Toxic Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered the future land of Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Toxic Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Toxic Plate was one of the two Plates that Petrel had found and were then stolen by Silver.

Title: Earth Plate

The Earth Plate (Japanese: だいちのプレート Earth Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Ground-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Ground-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Ground-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Ground-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Earth Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Ground type. The Earth Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "When the universe was created, its shards became this Plate." The Earth Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. This act earned its trust and prompted it to detach the Earth Plate, Splash Plate, Meadow Plate, Zap Plate, and Draco Plate in the form of the Jewel of Life so Damos could make the land that would become Michina Town flourish. The Earth Plate was included into the Jewel of Life to represent the soil of the land. The Earth Plate, alongside the Splash Plate and Flame Plate, appeared in a flashback in the movie Hoopa and the Clash of Ages, where Ghris was seen using their combined powers to create the Prison Bottle. The Earth Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Earth Plate was one of the two Plates that Petrel had found and were then stolen by Silver. After figuring out that the Plates stood for Pokémon types, Silver used the Earth Plate in Raising the Stakes with Rhyperior in order to power up his Rhyperior's Earth Power. The Earth Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR8 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Sky Plate

The Sky Plate (Japanese: あおぞらプレート Blue Sky Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Flying-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Flying-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Flying-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Flying-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Sky Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Flying type. The Sky Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The being poured the remains of its powers into stone and buried it deep." The Sky Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered the land that would eventually become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Sky Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus.

Title: Mind Plate

The Mind Plate (Japanese: ふしぎのプレート Mysterious Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Psychic-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Psychic-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Psychic-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Psychic-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Mind Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Psychic type. The Mind Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The Original One breathed alone before the universe came." The Mind Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered what would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus. This gave it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Mind Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Mind Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR7 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Insect Plate

The Insect Plate (Japanese: たまむしプレート Jewel Beetle Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Bug-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Bug-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Bug-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Bug-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Insect Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Bug type. The Insect Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "Where all creation was born, that is the being's place of origin." The Insect Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that threatened what would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Insect Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus.

Title: Stone Plate

The Stone Plate (Japanese: がんせきプレート Rock Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Rock-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Rock-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Rock-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Rock-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Stone Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Rock type. The Stone Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "It gathers power from the Plates, listening to the flute's song." The Stone Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor that endangered what would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Stone Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus.

Title: Spooky Plate

The Spooky Plate (Japanese: もののけプレート Specter Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Ghost-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Ghost-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Ghost-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Ghost-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Spooky Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Ghost type. The Spooky Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The other side of this world was given by the Original One to its raging third." The Spooky Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after having destroyed a meteor that endangered what would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Spooky Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus.

Title: Draco Plate

The Draco Plate (Japanese: りゅうのプレート Dragon Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Dragon-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Dragon-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Dragon-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Dragon-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Draco Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Dragon type. The Draco Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "Three beings were born to bind time and space." The Draco Plate, alongside the Iron Plate and Splash Plate, debuted in Journey to the Unown!, where Saturn and two Team Galactic Grunts placed them in a room located in the Solaceon Ruins, in order to obtain the Spear Key and awaken the Unown there. The Plates were used to power up the three types of Palkia and Dialga (Dragon, Steel, and Water) combined. The Draco Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared again in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. This act earned its trust and prompted it to detach the Earth Plate, Splash Plate, Meadow Plate, Zap Plate, and Draco Plate in the form of the Jewel of Life so Damos could make the land that would become Michina Town flourish. The Draco Plate was included in the Jewel of Life in order to strengthen the power of the other Plates. The Draco Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Draco Plate is the only Plate that could have changed the moves Arceus can learn. Prior to Generation VIII, Arceus could only be taught Draco Meteor while holding a Draco Plate.

Title: Dread Plate

The Dread Plate (Japanese: こわもてプレート Frightening Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Dark-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Dark-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Dark-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Dark-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Dread Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Dark type. The Dread Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "Two makes matter, and three makes spirit, shaping the world." The Dread Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor that endangered the land that would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus. This gave it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Dread Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Dread Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR1 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Iron Plate

The Iron Plate (Japanese: こうてつプレート Steel Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Steel-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Steel-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Steel-type form. From Generation V onward, item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. In Generation IV, item-manipulating effects cannot affect Pokémon with Multitype. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Steel-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Iron Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Steel type. The Iron Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "That which fills the other side of the world can shape the rage and mold it." The Iron Plate, alongside the Draco Plate and Splash Plate, debuted in Journey to the Unown!, where Saturn and two Team Galactic Grunts placed them in a room located in the Solaceon Ruins, in order to obtain the Spear Key and awaken the Unown there. The Plates were used to power up the three types of Palkia and Dialga (Dragon, Steel, and Water) combined. The Iron Plate, alongside the other 15 Plates at the time, appeared again in the movie Arceus and the Jewel of Life, where Arceus used them to change its type, and almost died when it lost all of the Plates after destroying a meteor that endangered the land that would become Michina Town. Damos found one of these lost Plates and returned it to Arceus, giving it the strength to recall the other 15 Plates. The Iron Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. Petrel was collecting the Plates for Team Rocket's plan. After Silver stole the few Plates he had managed to find, Petrel decided to let him gather all 16 Plates, just to get them back at once later. With his Weavile leaving messages for Sneasel and Weavile across Johto, Silver soon indeed gathered all 16 Plates for himself. At the Sinjoh Ruins, Gold surrendered the Plates to Archer, who used them to seemingly take control of Arceus, ordering it to recreate Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina. When the Pokédex holders used their Pokémon's ultimate attacks to stop the creation, all the Plates were absorbed by Arceus. The Iron Plate has been featured in the illustration of the AR9 Arceus card from the Platinum: Arceus expansion.

Title: Odd Incense

The Odd Incense (Japanese: あやしいおこう Mysterious Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is an incense that allows Mr. Mime and Mr. Rime to produce Mime Jr. Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Twisted Spoon. Boosts the power of the holder's Psychic-type moves by 20%. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Mr. Mime Egg, a Mime Jr. Egg is produced instead.

Title: Rock Incense

The Rock Incense (Japanese: がんせきおこう Rock Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation IX, it was an incense that allowed Sudowoodo to produce Bonsly Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Hard Stone. Boosts the power of the holder's Rock-type moves by 20%. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Sudowoodo Egg, a Bonsly Egg is produced instead.

Title: Full Incense

The Full Incense (Japanese: まんぷくおこう Full Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is an incense that allows Snorlax to produce Munchlax Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Lagging Tail. Forces the holder to move last in its priority bracket, regardless of its Speed. This item is unaffected by Trick Room. If a Full Incense is gained, lost, or suppressed, then it will not affect turn order until the beginning of the next turn. If multiple Pokémon holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense use moves with the same priority, the Pokémon with the lower Speed will move first (regardless of Trick Room). A Pokémon with Stall moves before Pokémon holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense. If a Pokémon with Stall also holds a Lagging Tail or Full Incense, Stall does not affect when the Pokémon moves. If multiple Pokémon with the Ability Stall or that are holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense use moves with the same priority, the Pokémon move relatively according to Speed (the order is reversed during Trick Room). If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Snorlax Egg, a Munchlax Egg is produced instead.

Title: Wave Incense

The Wave Incense (Japanese: さざなみのおこう Wavelet Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is an incense that allows Mantine to produce Mantyke Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Mystic Water. Boosts the power of the holder's Water-type moves by 20%. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Mantine Egg, a Mantyke Egg is produced instead. This and the Sea Incense are the only two incenses to have the exact same effect in battle.

Title: Rose Incense

The Rose Incense (Japanese: おはなのおこう Flower Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It is an incense that allows Roselia and Roserade to produce Budew Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Miracle Seed. Boosts the power of the holder's Grass-type moves by 20%. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Roselia Egg, a Budew Egg is produced instead.

Title: Luck Incense

If you were looking for the item from Pokémon Sleep, see Incense (Sleep). The Luck Incense (Japanese: こううんのおこう Good Luck Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. Prior to Generation IX, it was an incense that allowed Chansey and Blissey to produce Happiny Eggs. In battle, its effect is identical to the Amulet Coin. The Luck Incense doubles the amount of prize money received after battle if the holder takes part in the battle. It also doubles the amount of coins picked up from Pay Day and G-Max Gold Rush. Luck Incense does not stack with Amulet Coin or other Luck Incenses; however, it does stack with Happy Hour and Prize Money Power. Once the Pokémon has participated in battle while holding it, it takes effect; it is unaffected by Klutz and takes effect even if the holding Pokémon faints or the Luck Incense is removed or negated. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Chansey Egg, a Happiny Egg is produced instead. A luck-themed figure of Pikachu featuring a Luck Incense and an Amulet Coin has been released on February 13, 2019 as part of the A Day With Pikachu figure line by Funko.

Title: Pure Incense

The Pure Incense (Japanese: きよめのおこう Purify Incense) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Chimecho to produce Chingling Eggs. In the overworld, its effect is identical to the Cleanse Tag. If held by the first member in the player's party, it lowers the encounter rate of wild Pokémon by a third. If held by either parent of a pairing in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery that would produce a Chimecho Egg, a Chingling Egg is produced instead. Pure Incense can be obtained in Pokémon Sword and Shield, despite Chingling and Chimecho not existing in those games.

Title: Protector

The Protector (Japanese: プロテクター Protector) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Rhydon to evolve into Rhyperior. Causes Rhydon to evolve into Rhyperior when used on it in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. Causes Rhydon to evolve into Rhyperior when traded while holding it. This consumes the Protector. The Protector appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Protector at Luminous Spring, Rhydon can be evolved into Rhyperior. This consumes the Link Cable and Protector. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Rhydon evolves into Rhyperior if it knocks out a Warrior's Pokémon in a manner that allows recruitment while its own Warrior is equipped with a Protector. The Protector can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Yikes, Yanmega! II, Diamond's Lickilicky, Kit, used a Protector to protect itself from Mars's Yanmega swarm's soundwaves. Roseanne later revealed that the Protector was one of the items she used in her research of Pokémon Evolution. In Raising the Stakes with Rhyperior, it was revealed that Silver had given Blue a Protector to be held by his Rhydon, allowing him to evolve into a Rhyperior when he was traded between the two Trainers. Afterwards, Blue had let Silver keep Rhyperior as a temporary replacement for his lost Ursaring.

Title: Electirizer

The Electirizer (Japanese: エレキブースター Elecbooster) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Electabuzz to evolve into Electivire when traded while holding it. Causes Electabuzz to evolve into Electivire when traded while holding it. This consumes the Electirizer. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, due to the absence of held items, the Electirizer simply needs to be used on Electabuzz to trigger the Evolution, which consumes the item. The Electirizer appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Electirizer at Luminous Spring, Electabuzz can be evolved into Electivire. This consumes the Link Cable and Electirizer. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. An Electirizer is featured in the artwork of the Triumphant Electivire card.

Title: Magmarizer

The Magmarizer (Japanese: マグマブースター Magmabooster) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Magmar to evolve into Magmortar when traded while holding it. Causes Magmar to evolve into Magmortar when traded while holding it. This consumes the Magmarizer. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, due to the absence of held items, the Magmarizer simply needs to be used on Magmar to trigger the Evolution, which consumes the item. The Magmarizer appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Magmarizer at Luminous Spring, Magmar can be evolved into Magmortar. This consumes the Link Cable and Magmarizer. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. A Magmarizer is featured in the artwork of the Triumphant Magmortar card. In Yikes, Yanmega! II, Roseanne revealed that she researched Evolution items while studying Pokémon Evolution, including the Magmarizer.

Title: Dubious Disc

The Dubious Disc (Japanese: あやしいパッチ Dubious Patch) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Porygon2 to evolve into Porygon-Z. Causes Porygon2 to evolve into Porygon-Z when traded while holding it. This consumes the Dubious Disc. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, due to the absence of held items, the Dubious Disc simply needs to be used on Porygon2 to trigger the Evolution, which consumes the item. The Dubious Disc appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Dubious Disc at Luminous Spring, Porygon2 can be evolved into Porygon-Z. This consumes the Link Cable and Dubious Disc. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. A Dubious Disc is featured in the artwork of the Triumphant Porygon-Z card. Porygon-Z's Pokédex entries imply that the Dubious Disc was modified to enable it to work in alien dimensions, but that an unplanned error in the programming corrupted Porygon-Z and prevented it from fulfilling this purpose.

Title: Reaper Cloth

The Reaper Cloth (Japanese: れいかいのぬの Spirit World Cloth) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Dusclops to evolve into Dusknoir. Causes Dusclops to evolve into Dusknoir when traded while holding it. This consumes the Reaper Cloth. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, due to the absence of held items, the Reaper Cloth simply needs to be used on Dusclops to trigger the Evolution. The Reaper Cloth appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Link Cable and Reaper Cloth at Luminous Spring, Dusclops can be evolved into Dusknoir. This consumes the Link Cable and Reaper Cloth. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Dusclops evolves into Dusknoir if it knocks out a Warrior's Pokémon in a manner that allows recruitment while its own Warrior is equipped with a Reaper Cloth. Reaper Cloth can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone III, Fantina's Duskull used its Reaper Cloth to save Diamond and Pearl from a fall. In Yikes, Yanmega! II, Roseanne revealed that she researched Evolution items while studying Pokémon Evolution, including the Reaper Cloth. A Reaper Cloth appears as a held item on the Secret Wonders Duskull card. It allows Duskull to evolve on the turn it is played. This contrasts with other media, in which the Reaper Cloth allows Dusclops to evolve into Dusknoir rather than Duskull to evolve into Dusclops. The song Ghost Dive references the Reaper Cloth in its lyrics. The Japanese name of the Reaper Cloth, as well as Dusknoir's Pokédex entries, reference the Ghost World.

Title: Razor Claw

The Razor Claw (Japanese: するどいツメ Razor Claw) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Sneasel to evolve into Weavile or Sneasler, and also increases the holder's critical hit ratio. Raises the critical hit ratio of the holder by one stage. Causes regular Sneasel to evolve into Weavile when leveled up at night, and Hisuian Sneasel to evolve into Sneasler when leveled up during the day, both while holding it. This consumes the Razor Claw. The Razor Claw appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Lunar Ribbon and Razor Claw at Luminous Spring, Sneasel can be evolved into Weavile. This consumes the Lunar Ribbon and Razor Claw. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Pokémon Conquest, Sneasel evolves into Weavile if its link is improved while its Speed is 175 or higher and its Warrior is equipped with a Razor Claw. The Razor Claw also increases the probability of attacks hitting enemies' weak spots. Razor Claw can be purchased from the traveling merchant for 5000 gold, and sold for 2500-3250 gold. In Pokémon UNITE, the Razor Claw is a held item. After using a move, the user's next basic attack within 3s deals additional damage to a single target. The damage is equal to 10/15/20 and 40/45/50% of user's Attack at grades 1, 10, and 20 respectively. If the user is classified as a melee attacker, this basic attack also slows enemies by 30% for 1 seconds (with a 1.5s cooldown). On top of that, the item increases Attack and critical hit rate: by 1 and 0.6% at Grade 1, and by 15 and 2.1% at Grade 30. The Razor Claw is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Sneasel requires 80 Sneasel Candy and a Razor Claw to evolve into Weavile. In Dealing With A Koffing Fit, Silver's Sneasel evolved into a Weavile due to having gained experience while holding a Razor Claw, which had been given to Silver by Green. A Razor Claw is featured in the artwork of the Undaunted Weavile card.

Title: Razor Fang

The Razor Fang (Japanese: するどいキバ Razor Fang) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IV. It allows Gligar to evolve into Gliscor, and also allows the holder's moves to cause Pokémon to flinch. Grants certain moves used by the holder a 10% chance of causing targets to flinch. Each strike of a multistrike move has an independent chance of causing the target to flinch. Grants the moves listed below a 10% chance of causing each target to flinch. This chance is not affected by Serene Grace. In this generation only, due to the way this item's effect is resolved, U-turn will be able to flinch the target only if the Pokémon being switched into is holding the item. Grants all attacking moves that do not already have a chance to flinch a 10% chance of causing each target to flinch. This chance is affected by Serene Grace and the rainbow created by Fire Pledge and Water Pledge. Razor Fang does not activate Sheer Force, but Sheer Force removes the chance to flinch if the move already has an additional effect. The Razor Fang causes Gligar to evolve into Gliscor when leveled up at night while holding it. This consumes the Razor Fang. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Razor Fang causes Gligar to evolve into Gliscor when used during the night. This consumes the Razor Fang. The Razor Fang appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky. If the player offers both a Lunar Ribbon and Razor Fang at Luminous Spring, Gligar can be evolved into Gliscor. This consumes the Lunar Ribbon and Razor Fang. If thrown, it will deal 1 damage (2 if sticky). Using this item in a dungeon will consume it, with no effect. In Fighting Fear with Fear!, Ash received a Razor Fang from Gary. Later in the episode, he used it to evolve his Gligar into a Gliscor. A Razor Fang is featured in the artwork of the Undaunted Gliscor card.

Title: Explorer Kit

If you were looking for the item from Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, see Pokémon Exploration Team Kit. The Explorer Kit (Japanese: たんけんセット Exploration Set) is a Key Item used to access the Underground/Grand Underground, an area found beneath the entire Sinnoh region. The player can use the Explorer Kit anywhere in the Sinnoh region, except inside buildings and other structures, to instantly access the Underground/Grand Underground. The player also cannot dig through elevated structures such as bridges. When used, it asks the player to save the game and indicates that DS Wireless Communications will be turned on. It then transports the player from their current location to the corresponding spot of the Underground's/Grand Underground's tunnels. The Explorer Kit includes all the basic tools used when adventuring, mining, and collecting in the Underground/Grand Underground. When certain tools are used for the first time, notes describing their functionality are shown to the player. Hammer: The hammer is used to dig through walls to find spheres and treasures. It makes a bigger impact on the wall than the pickaxe, digging up several tiles at a time; however, this causes the wall to collapse at double the speed. The wall will collapse after 25 hammer hits. Pickaxe: The pickaxe is also used to dig through walls. It makes a smaller impact on the wall than the hammer, causing fewer tiles to be dug up at a time. This causes the wall to stay strong for longer before collapsing. If anyone else is mining nearby, a pickaxe will appear on the player's screen wherever the other player hits on their screen. The wall will collapse after 49 pickaxe hits. Map: The map is displayed on the top screen and shows all of the Underground/Grand Underground as well as spots to dig into the walls. There are six independent sections of the labyrinth, each accessible from different places in Sinnoh. In terms of vendors and mining treasures, the areas are equivalent. When in multiplayer mode, the map also shows the positioning of the other players in the Underground/Grand Underground. Radar: The radar locates all treasure, spheres, and traps in the Underground/Grand Underground. By touching the touch screen, the radar will appear and locate all treasure, spheres, and traps near to the player. If a sparkle is revealed on the floor using the radar, it is either a trap or a sphere; traps have white sparkles, while spheres have gold. If both are hidden in one spot, a trap is found first, then a sphere. If the sparkle is in the wall, it is a the bulging section that can be mined. The Explorer Kit also comes with containers to carry Spheres and Decorations (aka Goods). Spheres are the currency of the Underground/Grand Underground. They can be sold to vendors that appear there. These explorers are stationary and will only rotate in place. Each of the three types accept spheres, and will trade the player either goods, traps, or treasures. Goods are generally known as the items that can be used in the Underground/Grand Underground to decorate the player's Secret Base, such as dolls, chairs, and tables. Goods can also be purchased in the fourth floor of the Veilstone Department Store, or obtained from Mr. Goods after completing certain requirements. The rarity of the goods is determined by the value of the Sphere being asked for. For example, an Iron Beam is worth a Prism Sphere 9 and a Pink Dresser is worth a Green Sphere 54. This concludes that the Pink Dresser has a much higher rarity than the Iron Beam. In Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia I, it was revealed that Byron and the Underground Man used the Explorer Kit to dig underground tunnels underneath Mt. Coronet, allowing the Sinnoh Gym Leaders to catch the Team Galactic Commanders at the Spear Pillar by surprise. A miniature of the shovel and helmet from the Explorer Kit was included in the Sinnoh goods set from the Pokémon World Market merchandise line that was made by Re-Ment and exclusive to the Pokémon Center. There is no backpack, however. Due to a glitch, the Explorer Kit is not usable when the player stands two tiles to the right of the Bug Catcher at the western entrance to Eterna City. Instead, a message will appear: Rowan's words echoed... <player>! There's a time and place for everything! But not now. This glitch is only present in Pokémon Platinum. Unlike other Key Items from Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Explorer Kit is not present in the data of Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. However, like all Generation IV Key Items, it is present in the data of the Generation V and VI games.

Title: Point Card

The Point Card (Japanese: ポイントカード Point Card) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl the Point Card holds the Battle Points the player earns from winning battles in the Battle Tower. In Pokémon Platinum, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, the player instead tracks their Battle Points on the Vs. Recorder's Frontier Record.

Title: Fashion Case

The Fashion Case (Japanese: アクセサリーいれ Accessory Container) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. It allows the player to store Accessories and Backdrops. There are several different sections for these Accessories: Fluffs, Pebbles and Boulders, Scales, Feathers, Facial Hair, Natural, Flowers, Specs, Misc, and Contest prizes, among others. Additionally, there are seventeen obtainable Backdrops. In Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Fashion Case comes with two Backdrops and a few Accessories. Additional Accessories can be picked up by Pokémon in Amity Square, obtained as prizes for winning Super Contests, found by the Massage Girl in Veilstone City, traded for Berries at the Pick a Peck of Colors Flower Shop in Floaroma Town, or given by various NPCs. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, random Accessories are picked up at random by the Pokémon leading the party while walking, won in the Accessory drawing in the Goldenrod Tunnel, or given by various NPCs. However, in HeartGold and SoulSilver they serve no purpose other than taking photos in Goldenrod Tunnel. Additional Backdrops can be won in the Pokémon Lottery Corner, given by the woman in the Global Terminal, or won in the Accessory drawing in the Goldenrod Tunnel. There is also a woman in Pal Park building who will give the player certain Accessories or Backdrops when certain Pokémon Game Boy Advance games are in the Nintendo DS's GBA slot. Prior to entering her first Pokémon Super Contest in Perturbed by Pachirisu, Platinum had arranged her Fashion Case so that she would not take long picking up Accessories to dress up her Prinplup during the Visual Competition of the Normal Rank Coolness Contest she was preparing for. However, unbeknownst to her, a Pachirisu belonging to one of the contestants disorganized her Fashion Case moments before the competition. Despite an attempt by her competitors to sabotage her, Platinum still managed to accessorize her Pokémon within the 60-second time-limit.

Title: Pal Pad

The Pal Pad (Japanese: ともだちてちょう Friend Notebook) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. The Pal Pad allows players to register other players as friends, who can be met in the Wi-Fi Club to battle and trade Pokémon. The multiplayer components are run from the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. On this network, each game has a unique Friend Code, which can be exchanged with others to meet in the Wi-Fi Club. In order for a player to connect with a friend online, they must each register the other in their own Pal Pad. Registering a friend requires knowing their name and Friend Code; however, the name entered does not need to match the friend's actual player character's name. Friends can be registered manually by entering their Friend Codes into the Pal Pad, or automatically by trading Pokémon with other players in the Union Room. Besides registering friends, the Pal Pad can be used to list registered friends and read the player's own Friend Code. The player's Friend Code is obtained when connecting to any place in the game having a Wi-Fi compatible activity, such as a Pokémon Center or the Battle Tower for the first time. The Pal Pad also records how many times the player has traded, or how many times the player has won or lost against another player in a Wi-Fi battle. In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the Pal Pad also records how many times the players has won through the Battle Frontier's facilities with a friend, as well as the number of times the players have played Wi-Fi Plaza Games together. The Pal Pad can register up to 32 friends. The Pal Pad was first introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese XY Era. Released as one of the XY-P Promotional cards, the Pal Pad Item card features the debut artwork by new illustrator, PLANETA. This Trainer card allows the player to recover two Supporter cards from the discard pile, and shuffle them back into their deck. During the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese SWSH Era), the card received a slight text change to include the phrase up to, in order to give players the option to retrieve fewer than the maximum number of cards.

Title: Works Key

The Works Key (Japanese: はつでんしょキー Power Plant Key) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. The Works Key allows the player to access unlock the door to the Valley Windworks, allowing them to confront Team Galactic.

Title: Old Charm

The Old Charm (Japanese: こだいのおまもり Ancient Omamori) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. It is a good-luck charm made of Pokémon bones. On their way to Celestic Town, Cynthia gives this Old Charm to the player, and asks them to deliver it her grandmother, the town's elder. After defending the town's ruins from Team Galactic, the player gives the charm to Cynthia's grandmother, who gives them permission to investigate the ruins. Once the player reaches friendship level 100 with Cynthia in the Trainer Lodge, they can purchase a replica of an Old Charm in the Lodge Exchange to display in the Trainer Lodge. An Old Charm appeared in Luxray Vision!, under the ownership of Matthew. Team Rocket, under the pseudonym "The Bandit Beauties Three", attempted to steal the charm, but they were eventually stopped by Marble, her Luxray, Ash, and his friends. The Old Charm appeared in Dialga's Secret Keys, where Cynthia gave it to Hareta and Mitsumi and asked them to deliver it to her grandmother in Celestic Town. After Hareta had prevented Team Galactic from destroying the Celestic Town ruins with a bomb, he gave the Old Charm to Cynthia's grandmother.

Title: Galactic Key

The Galactic Key (Japanese: ギンガだんのカギ Galaxy Gang's Key) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl The Galactic Key allows the player to open the locked doors at the Galactic Warehouse Underpass and the lobby of the Team Galactic HQ. During Episode RR, the Galactic Key disengages the mirror door in Lusamine's room in Team Rocket's Castle, or, in case it has already been disengaged, activates the warp panel behind it. It breaks after being used, consuming the item.

Title: Red Chain

The Red Chain (Japanese: あかいくさり Red Chain) is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It originally appears as an item that plays a notable role in the story of the Sinnoh-based games, and exists as a Key Item in the game data, but is not legitimately obtainable by the player. The Red Chain is first mentioned by Cogita, who says it could be used to stop the space-time rift above Mount Coronet. The player travels to each of Hisui's three lakes and receives a material required to craft the chain from each of the lake guardians: Azelf's Fang, Uxie's Claw, and Mesprit's Plume. Bringing these materials to the Shrouded Ruins will allow the lake guardians to craft the Red Chain for the player. With the chain in hand, the player then climbs to the summit of Mount Coronet. Depending on whether the player went to search for the materials with Adaman or Irida, either Dialga or Palkia will appear at the Temple of Sinnoh. However, when the player attempts to use the Red Chain to stop it, the artifact is broken to pieces. After the player has caught the Legendary Pokémon, its counterpart appears and forces the player to retreat. Following a hint received from the Legendary Pokémon the player caught, Professor Laventon uses the fragments of the Red Chain, combined with a sample of the Origin Ore, to craft the Origin Ball, which the player later uses to catch the other Legendary Pokémon at the Temple of Sinnoh. In the Sinnoh-based games, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn succeed in capturing Mesprit, Uxie, and Azelf, respectively, at their respective lakes and bringing them to the Team Galactic HQ, where gems are extracted from their bodies to create the Red Chain. Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl Even though the player succeeds in freeing the lake guardians, the Red Chain is still completed. At the Spear Pillar, Cyrus uses the chain to summon and take control of Dialga/Palkia. However, just when the Legendary Pokémon is about to fulfill Cyrus's wish of a new universe, the lake guardians appear and destroy the Red Chain, preventing the new universe from being created. Due to the player freeing the lake guardians when only one Red Chain was created, Cyrus is forced to create a second one through artificial means. Using these two chains, he summons both Dialga and Palkia to the Spear Pillar in order to recreate the universe. Even though the lake guardians appear to intervene, they cannot maintain the balance against both of the Legendary Pokémon at once. However, enraged by Cyrus's actions, Giratina then appears and drags Cyrus into the Distortion World, presumably destroying the Red Chains in the process. Cyrus's computer details information on the Red Chain: According to myths, the Pokémon created Sinnoh with its power. However, capturing the Pokémon with a Poké Ball prevents it from using its full power... But with the Red Chain, the Pokémon can be shackled, and its power can be used without restraint... The Pokémon of the lakes and Mt. Coronet are somehow connected. Capturing the Pokémon of the lakes will free the Pokémon of Mt. Coronet. From the Pokémon of the lakes, crystals can be extracted to create a Red Chain.Using that Red Chain, the mythical Pokémon can be summoned and shackled to do as we command... In Pokémon the Series, instead of being created from crystals extracted from the three lake guardians, the Red Chain was created from the Veilstone City meteorites, which were infused with the power of Arceus, explaining the chain's ability to control Legendary Pokémon. The Red Chain was first mentioned in Enter Galactic!, where Saturn said that though Team Galactic had failed to acquire all of the Veilstone City meteorites, the number that they had acquired should be suitable enough for the crafting of the Red Chain. In Double Team Turnover!, Mars reported to Cyrus that the Fuego Ironworks had completed their experiment on the meteorites, moving the project into its final stage. In Unlocking the Red Chain of Events!, the chain was completed and moved to the Team Galactic HQ. Charon purposefully left a fragment of the chain behind for the International Police to find, causing their database to get wiped out when they tried to scan it. In The Needs of Three!, after Hunter J succeeded in capturing the lake guardians and delivering them to Team Galactic, Cyrus had a Red Chain fragment placed onto each of them, allowing him to control them, although the three Legendary Pokémon managed to teleport Ash, Brock, and Dawn to their location before being completely subdued. In The Battle Finale of Legend!, Cyrus used the Red Chains, combined with the powers of the lake guardians and the Adamant and Lustrous Orbs, to summon Dialga and Palkia to the Spear Pillar and force them to start the creation of a new universe. While wrapping themselves around the two Legendary Pokémon, the chains took the shape of the wheel-like structure seen around Arceus's body. However, with the combined efforts of Ash, Brock, Dawn, and Cynthia, the Red Chains controlling both the lake guardians and Dialga and Palkia were destroyed and the birth of the new universe was stopped. Another Red Chain appeared in The Gates of Warp! and Showdown at the Gates of Warp!, this one created by Alternate World Team Rocket to lock Dialga and Palkia into a battle that caused the Pokémon in the alternate world version of Sinnoh to devolve and eventually revert into Eggs, allowing the villainous team to steal them easily. Eventually, after Alternate World Team Rocket had been defeated, Dialga's power started going out of control. Ash, Dawn, Goh, Chloe, and their alternate world counterparts, unable to break the Red Chain, prayed for Arceus to stop the fight between Dialga and Palkia. Responding to their wish, a shape of Arceus appeared from the Red Chain and made it disappear, ending the fight. The Red Chain appeared in The New World, where Cyrus used it to bind and control Dialga and Palkia. The chain was later broken by Giratina's Shadow Ball, freeing Dialga and Palkia from Cyrus's control and allowing them to escape. The Red Chain debuted in Halting Honchkrow, where it was completed at the Team Galactic HQ. In Creeping Away from Cradily, Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum succeeded in freeing the lake guardians from Team Galactic's captivity before the second Red Chain could be created, forcing Cyrus to use an artificially duplicated, less powerful copy to replace it. In Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia I, Cyrus used the two chains to summon Dialga and Palkia to the Spear Pillar and force them to fight each other in order to wipe out the old world and create a new one in its place. However, in Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia II, the Gym Leaders of Sinnoh, who were partaking in the battle against Team Galactic, attacked the duplicate chain and were able to break it. Even though the two Legendary Pokémon continued to fight, Cyrus was no longer able to control both of them simultaneously. In Double Trouble with Dialga and Palkia VI, the three Pokédex holders of Sinnoh exploited this weakness and destroyed the other chain as well, stopping Dialga and Palkia's battle. The Red Chain first appeared in (Violent) Earthquake! Cyrus's Consuming Ambition, where Cyrus succeeded in creating it by using the energy drawn from the three lake guardians. In The Advent of the Legendary Pokémon!!, Cyrus used the chain to awaken and take control of Dialga at the Spear Pillar so that he could return the world to its starting point and create a new universe. However, in the midst of the ensuing battle, the lake guardians, drawn in by Hareta's desire to free Dialga's heart, suddenly appeared and used their Psychic powers to give Dialga strength to destroy the chain, ending Cyrus's plan. The Red Chain's appearance as a dummied-out Key Item in Generation IV indicates that, during development, it may have been intended to have the same purpose as other Legendary artifacts in Generations II and III: the Rainbow Wing, Silver Wing, Red Orb, and Blue Orb all have a role in summoning the Legendary pair of game mascots of Johto and Hoenn's games, respectively. Whatever the case, it serves no purpose if it is hacked into the Bag. The crafting of the Red Chain in Pokémon Legends: Arceus may be inspired by the story of Gleipnir in Norse mythology. Gleipnir is made of six supposedly impossible things, while none of the Lake guardians appears to have plumes, fangs, or claws.

Title: Town Map

The Town Map (Japanese: タウンマップ Town Map) is a map device available in several core series Pokémon games. The version usable at the Pokégear is also referred to as Pokégear Map. It is a Key Item in all Generation I games and their remakes, Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, all Generation V games, and Pokémon X and Y. There is also a Town Map on the wall in some buildings from Generation I onwards, in Pokémon Centers in Generations III and IV and in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, as well as in gates in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl. In some games, the Town Map is available by other means: In the Johto region, the player receives a Map Card after being given a tour of Cherrygrove City by the Guide Gent which allows the player to check the Town Map on the Pokégear. In the Hoenn region, the PokéNav/PokéNav Plus has a Town Map function. In the Sinnoh region, the Pokétch also has map-related functionality. In Generation VIII, the Town Map is part of the menu. In the Alola region, the Rotom Pokédex has a detailed Town Map for each of the four islands, as well as the exterior of Aether Paradise. In the Galar region, the Town Map is part of the menu. In the Hisui region, the Town Map is a function of the Arc Phone. In the Paldea region, the Town Map is a function of the Rotom Phone. The Japanese versions of Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, and Yellow included a physical poster with the map of Kanto, titled "Pocket Monsters Town Map". In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, the map found at the Pokégear is named "Town Map" according to the Guide Gent in Cherrygrove City, some people who call the player through the Pokégear's phone, as well as in the quiz asked in the Goldenrod Radio Tower. It is named "Pokégear Map" by the character who welcomes the player into Kanto in Route 27. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, the map from the PokéNav is also seen at the wall in some buildings. This map seen in the building walls is referred to as a Town Map in Japanese, but it lost this name in the English localization, as seen below: Literal translation: "<player>'s face came closer to the Town Map of the Hoenn region." Localization: "<player> took a closer look at the Hoenn region map." In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the PokéNav Plus's BuzzNav refers to the AreaNav map as a Town Map: "<Pokémon> checked a destination with <player> using the Town Map at... <location>." In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, the detailed map from the Rotom Pokédex is named "Town Map" according to Professor Kukui. In the Town Map, the player's current location is identified by the player's overworld sprite. It is also possible to select other places by using a blinking square cursor; this cursor selects the player's current place by default as well, but it can be controlled by pressing up or down. The name of the currently selected location appears at the top of the screen. These are the normally selectable locations, which are scrolled through in this order: Pallet Town, Route 1, Viridian City, Route 2, Viridian Forest, Diglett's Cave, Pewter City, Route 3, Mt. Moon, Route 4, Cerulean City, Route 24, Route 25, Sea Cottage, Route 5, Route 6, Vermilion City, S.S. Anne, Route 9, Rock Tunnel, Route 10, Lavender Town, Pokémon Tower, Route 8, Route 7, Celadon City, Saffron City, Route 11, Route 12, Route 13, Route 14, Route 15, Route 16, Route 17, Route 18, Fuchsia City, Safari Zone, Sea Route 19, Seafoam Islands, Sea Route 20, Cinnabar Island, Sea Route 21, Route 22, Route 23, Victory Road, Indigo Plateau, and Power Plant. These locations are only selectable when the player uses the Town Map while in this specific location, since the current location is displayed by default: Underground Path (Kanto Routes 5–6), Underground Path (Kanto Routes 7–8) (both identified as Underground Path on the Town Map), Team Rocket Hideout (identified as Rocket HQ), Silph Co., Pokémon Mansion (identified as PKMN Mansion), Pokémon League, and Cerulean Cave. However, if the player moves the cursor around, these places will become unavailable on the map once more until the Town Map is used again. No matter where the player is, either Route 1 or Power Plant will be selected at first when the player presses up or down, respectively. Due to an oversight, if a player currently on Route 1 opens the Town Map, pressing up at first will apparently do nothing, as the selection will go from Route 1 (the current place) to Route 1 again. The player will need to press up twice to select the next place, which is Viridian City. Similarly, if the player is currently in the Power Plant, pressing down at first will apparently do nothing; they will need to press down twice to select the previous place, which is Indigo Plateau. The place name displayed by default is Silph Co. if the player uses it anywhere in the company building, including in the elevator, except the place displayed is Saffron City if this item is used in the first floor of Silph Co. (except in the elevator). The place name displayed by default is Indigo Plateau if the player uses it outdoors or in the lobby, but the place displayed is Pokémon League if the player uses it the rooms of the Elite Four, Champion, or Hall of Fame (even though items such as the Town Map are not usable in the Hall of Fame room, the place name is stored in the game data nonetheless). Cerulean Cave is known by this name in the English version of the Town Map, but as ななしのどうくつ (Nameless Cave) in the Japanese version. This is referenced as the English game manual and some English official guides call it the Unknown Dungeon. In this generation, the Japanese version of the Town Map has a limit of 9 characters for the displayed place name. This would be enough to display the full Japanese name of all the places available on the map other than Silph Co.. However, some words are not used on the Town Map: シティ (City), タウン (Town), しま (Island, as seen in Cinnabar Island), こうげん (Plateau, as seen in Indigo Plateau), and カンパニー (Company, as seen in Silph Co.). For instance, while the Town Map displays the full name "Cerulean City" in English, this place is displayed as ハナダ (Hanada) instead of ハナダシティ (Hanada City) in Japanese. Silph Co. is displayed on the Town Map as シルフほんしゃビル (Sylph Main Office Building), which may be a shortening of シルフ カンパニー ほんしゃ ビル (Sylph Company Main Office Building). In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, the Town Map is available as a Pokégear feature once the player has acquired the Map Card (Japanese: マップカード Map Card). In this generation, the Town Map displays the map of the current region: Johto is available at first, and then later Kanto once the player enters that region. The squares representing towns and cities on the Town Map depend on the player's gender: orange for a boy, or blue for a girl. The four images below display the Town Map without the Pokégear buttons, which is seen on the Pokédex Area screen. At first, the map will only display the Kanto region. During Generation III, after the player has ventured into the Sevii Islands, Celio will give them an upgraded map, featuring One, Two, and Three Islands. After entering the Hall of Fame and obtaining the National Pokédex, Celio will upgrade the map to its complete extent, revealing the final four Sevii Islands. The map display can be changed among the four sections (mainland Kanto; One, Two, and Three Island; Four and Five Island and Navel Rock; and Six, Seven, and Birth Island) at will after getting each new map. Some locations have a guide (Japanese: ガイド guide) that details information on important places. This feature was expanded for every location on the Town Map starting in Pokémon Diamond and Pearl. The Sinnoh Town Map offers flavor text descriptions of all visited locations in the game, and of all routes, visited or not. However, areas such as Fullmoon Island are not shown unless the player goes there. It resembles a Nintendo DS. The Map is obtained in Jubilife City, when visiting the Trainers' School. The player receives it from their rival, Barry, upon giving him the Parcel from his mother. Platinum's Town Map's location descriptions appear to have been taken directly from Pokémon Diamond and Pearl; for example, Route 212's description includes a reference to the house where shards can be traded for TMs, but in Platinum the TM-trading woman has been replaced by a Move Tutor. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, much like in Generation II games, the Town Map is a Pokégear feature, and it is also seen on the wall of several buildings. The mechanics of the map remain the same as in Generation II games, only to have several added features, including the ability to zoom in to display areas of interest, with certain locations having a small flavor text. There is another feature that allows the player to add notes and markings to different locations, to allow the player to make notes about each area about the Pokémon in the area, any Apricorn trees, any special buildings, TM locations or any other notes. These notes will appear on the top screen when the player highlights that specific area on the map. Like the Marking Map on the Pokétch, it also displays the current locations of all Roaming Pokémon, including Entei and Raikou. If, in HeartGold and SoulSilver, a non-player character calls the player on the Pokégear phone for a rematch or to give an item, then the Pokégear map will display a small red exclamation point next to the name of the route or location. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Town Map is available from the beginning of the game as part of the player's menu. In-universe, it is part of the player's Rotom Phone. The player may press X to automatically move the cursor to their current location, Y to move the cursor to the location of their next objective (marked with a flag), plus (+) or minus (-) to toggle weather icons, and A to use the Flying Taxi if the cursor is currently over a reachable destination. The main Galar area, the Isle of Armor, and the Crown Tundra each have their own objective and pressing Y will correspond to the area the map is currently showing. If the player has fully completed the plot of one of these areas, there will be no objective location and pressing Y will have no effect. An undocumented feature (not mentioned in the footer's button description) is that the player may press L or R to automatically move the cursor between cities/towns in story order, with R moving forwards and L moving backwards. This counts locations marked with a blue and yellow diamond on the map, meaning that Wyndon will appear twice (once for the main city and once for the Rose Tower/Battle Tower). When the map is opened, R will always point to Postwick and L will always point to Wyndon's tower, regardless of where the player's current location is. If the cursor is over the Isle of Armor or Crown Tundra, it will instantly move back to the main area upon pressing L or R. When the player manually moves the cursor, it will snap to any nearby icon when it stops moving. For example, Route 2 initially counts as two icons (the "02" symbol partway along the route, and the dot in the middle of the lake marking the end of the route). After unlocking the Flying Taxi, the destination at Professor Magnolia's house becomes a third icon that the cursor will now snap to. After visiting the Isle of Armor once, the player may scroll between it and the main Galar area on the map; the same applies to the Crown Tundra. However, the game will avoid straddling the boundary between the main Galar area and a DLC area. For example, placing the cursor over Postwick and scrolling down slightly will cause the map view to quickly move down a full screen, moving all of the main Galar area out of view (the map view will consist of only the top half of the Crown Tundra). The game will also avoid showing the blank ocean space north and south of the Isle of Armor. For example, if the cursor is at the very top of the map and the player scrolls right, the map view will quickly move diagonally downward to focus on the Isle of Armor. The player is not allowed to scroll north from the Isle of Armor. If the player scrolls south from the Isle of Armor, the map view will quickly move diagonally leftward at a shallow angle to focus on the Crown Tundra. The player is not allowed to scroll south from the Isle of Armor if they have never visited the Crown Tundra yet. Between Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield, the two version-exclusive Gyms show up in different colors on the map. From Version 1.2.0 onward, an extra set of train tracks and a train station are added to the main part of the Galar map leading to the Isle of Armor. From Version 1.3.0 onward, an additional set of train tracks are added leading to the Crown Tundra. These extra train tracks appear even if the player has not purchased the Pokémon Sword and Shield Expansion Pass. From Version 1.2.0 onward, at least the Isle of Armor is always present on the map even if the player has not purchased the Expansion Pass and therefore cannot scroll to it due to not having visited it yet. This is evidenced by the decorative island northwest of the Isle of Armor whose edge is barely visible when the view is focused on the main Galar area. The island did not exist on the map before the release of the Isle of Armor. A minuscule portion of the rightmost edge of the Frigid Sea is outside the bounds of the Crown Tundra map, and can only be briefly seen if the player has also visited the Isle of Armor and is scrolling between the two areas. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Town Map remains a menu option, and is no longer a Key Item like it is in Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. It is still unlocked at the Trainers' School in Jubilife City. The map has extra functions to view the location of Honey Trees, with blank trees identifying trees with no Honey, yellow trees identifying trees which are slathered with Honey, and glistening yellow trees when a tree is shaking. The map can also show the location of ripe Berries. In Dreams by the Yard Full!, similar to Max with his PokéNav in Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire and Brock with his Pokégear in Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, Cilan is shown to have a Town Map for his journeys with Ash and Iris. It seems to have the ability to look up and locate various landmarks and natural occurrences as seen in Cottonee in Love! when Cilan uses it to track the flow of the wind, and in Facing Fear with Eyes Wide Open! when he locates plants used for an antidote for poison at the bottom of a lake. In Best Wishes Until We Meet Again!, Cilan was seen examining the Town Map of Kanto and Johto while planning how he and Iris would continue traveling. In A Battle of Aerial Mobility!, Clemont was revealed to own a Town Map. In Giving Chase at the Rhyhorn Race!, Serena was revealed to own a Town Map. Along with the map and current location shown on the left hand screen, the right hand screen can be used for a variety of other uses, including watching announcements for upcoming Pokémon Showcases by Monsieur Pierre. The device can also be used to search for information, as shown in Pokémon the Movie: Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction where Serena used it to find out that Diancie could make diamonds. A Town Map of Kanto appeared in The Discovery, under the ownership of Green. May Oak was seen giving Ash a Town Map in Pikachu, I See You!. In this arc, Pearl was often seen examining a Town Map. In PZ02, Daisy Oak gave Satoshi a Town Map, despite Shigeru having told her not to do so. When Shigeru later found out about this, he got angry at his sister. Town Map was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era). First released in the Japanese Freeze Bolt expansion, it later debuted in English in the Boundaries Crossed expansion, with both prints featuring an illustration by Toyste Beach. This Trainer card allows the player to flip their Prize cards face-up for the remainder of the game. Before the release of Pokémon Gold and Silver, the only in-game source mentioning the name of the Kanto region was the Japanese-language text when examining the Town Map in Blue's house before the player obtains it.

Title: Coin Case

The Coin Case (Japanese: コインケース Coin Case) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. It is used to hold coins from Game Corners. The Coin Cases holds coins, the currency of the Celadon Game Corner, Goldenrod Game Corner, Mauville Game Corner, and Veilstone Game Corner. The player needs this item in the Bag in order to purchase or otherwise obtain any coins, play the games, or exchange coins for prizes. In the Generation I, II, and III games, the Coin Case can hold up to 9,999 coins; in the Generation IV games, the Coin Case can hold up to 50,000 coins. Any excess coins the player would receive are lost, and the player is prohibited from purchasing more coins. The Joyful Game Corner and the Game Corner in Mossdeep City do not require the Coin Case. When used from the Bag in the overworld, the Coin Case tells the player how many coins they have. In the English localizations of Pokémon Gold and Silver, a translation error results in glitches involving the Coin Case in those games.

Title: Old Rod

The Old Rod (Japanese: ボロのつりざお Worn-out Fishing Rod) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. It allows the player to fish from bodies of water. The Good Rod and Super Rod are more powerful versions of this item. The Old Rod allows the player to fish for Pokémon in bodies of water. The Pokémon encountered will be at a lower level than those encountered by using the Good Rod or Super Rod. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Magikarp are fished with Old Rod, with the player being given increasingly better variants of Old Rod (So-So, Good, Great, Rare, Pro's, and Supreme) as they progress that can fish new Magikarp patterns. In Best Wishes Until We Meet Again!, Cilan mentioned that Mr. Briney from Dewford Town was going to host the Old Rod Fishing Rally soon, prompting him to depart for Johto in order to participate in the said competition. Red obtained an Old Rod from the Vermilion Fishing Guru in File 2: Cubone. The Old Rod has appeared in Pokémon Pocket Monsters. The Old Rod was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Neo Series (the Japanese Neo Era). It was first released in the Awakening Legends expansion before debuting in English in the Neo Revelation expansion, with an illustration by Keiji Kinebuchi. A reprint with new artwork by Shizurow was included in the Japanese Offense and Defense of the Furthest Ends expansion, and then released in the English EX Dragon Frontiers expansion. Old Rod lets a player flip 2 coins. If both are heads, the player can search their discard pile for a Baby Pokémon (Neo Revelation only), Basic Pokémon, or Evolution card and put it into their hand. If both coins are tails, the player search their discard pile for a Trainer card instead and put it into their hand. In Generation I, the only Pokémon that can be fished out by the Old Rod is Magikarp, all of which would be level 5.

Title: Good Rod

The Good Rod (Japanese: いいつりざお Good Fishing Rod) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. It allows the player to fish from bodies of water. The Old Rod is a weaker version of this item, while the Super Rod is more powerful. The Good Rod allows the player to fish for Pokémon in bodies of water. It allows the player to encounter wild Pokémon that are at a higher level than those found using the Old Rod, but at a lower level than using the Super Rod. The Good Rod was introduced as a Trainer card (Item card in Japan) in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English HeartGold & SoulSilver Series. It was first released in the Leafeon Deck of the Leafeon vs Metagross Expert Deck before debuting in English in the Unleashed expansion, with an illustration by Wataru Kawahara. Good Rod lets a player flip a coin. If heads, the player can search their discard pile for a Pokémon, and put it on top of their deck. If it is tails, the player searches for a Trainer card instead. In Generation I, the only Pokémon that can be fished up with the Good Rod are Poliwag and Goldeen, both of which would always be at level 10.

Title: Super Rod

The Super Rod (Japanese: すごいつりざお Amazing Fishing Rod) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. It allows the player to fish from bodies of water. The Old Rod and Good Rod are weaker versions of this item. The Super Rod allows the player to fish for Pokémon in bodies of water. It allows the player to encounter wild Pokémon that are at a higher level than those found using the Old Rod or Good Rod. In Climbing the Tower of Success!, a Super Rod appeared as an item Iris had to find during the Wishing Bell Festival scavenger hunt. Red obtained a Super Rod from the Silence Bridge Fishing Guru in File 3: Giovanni. Soon after obtaining it, he was seen using it to capture himself a Psyduck. Red was also seen fishing with the Super Rod in File 4: Charizard, although he did so merely to get some time to think about the mysterious Pokémon in Cerulean Cave. The Super Rod has appeared in Pokémon Pocket Monsters. The Super Rod was introduced as a Trainer card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Neo Series (the Japanese Neo Era). It was first released in the Japanese Gold, Silver, to a New World... expansion and the English Neo Genesis expansion, with artwork by Keiji Kinebuchi. It let a player flip a coin. If heads, the player could put an Evolution card from their discard pile into their hand. If tails, the player could put a Basic Pokémon into their hand instead. Super Rod was later reclassified as an Item card during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese Black & White Era) with a completely different effect. Now, it let players shuffle 3 in any combination of Pokémon and Basic Energy cards from their discard pile back into their deck. During the Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era) the card received a slight text change to include the phrase up to, in order to give players the option to take fewer than the maximum number of cards. The Super Rod is the only fishing rod that is obtainable in Generation V. The Old and Good Rods, while still existent in the game's programming, cannot be obtained without hacking and cannot be used; if hacked in, they can be held by a Pokémon unlike legitimate Key Items.

Title: Sprayduck

The Sprayduck (Japanese: コダックじょうろ Koduck Watering Can) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. It is a watering can fashioned after a Psyduck. The Sprayduck allows the player to water planted Berries. If watering is done correctly for a sufficient amount of time, the resulting Berry trees will have higher amounts of Berries to pick and store. A Sprayduck was briefly seen in Oh Do You Know The Poffin Plan, where it was used by Forsythia and her Roserade to water the plants around her house. It briefly appeared again along with Forsythia in Unlocking the Red Chain of Events!. A Sprayduck was used by an Aroma Lady during the opening of Arceus and the Jewel of Life. Platinum was seen examining a Sprayduck in Honey for Combee. The Sprayduck has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Poffin Case

The Poffin Case (Japanese: ポフィンケース Poffin Case) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. It allows the player to store Poffins cooked from Berries. Holds up to 100 Poffins that the player has made at the Poffin House or bought at the Veilstone Department Store. While preparing to enter a Pokémon Super Contest in Perturbed by Pachirisu, Platinum received a Poffin Case from the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring the Poffin Case in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Poffin Case has been featured in various officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Bicycle

This article is about the Key Item named Bicycle. For the bicycle models available in the Hoenn games, see Mach Bike and Acro Bike. For the bicycle model available in the Galar games, see Rotom Bike. A Bicycle (Japanese: じてんしゃ Bicycle) is a Key Item obtained in the games to facilitate faster movement. They are usually obtained from Bicycle Shops. In the Generation I games and Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, Miracle Cycle in Cerulean City sells Bicycles for $1,000,000, which is $1 more than it is possible for the player to obtain in these games. Instead, the player must use a Bike Voucher to buy one. This item is used to toggle between riding the Bicycle or walking again. The Bicycle allows for faster traveling than walking, using the Running Shoes, or the Roller Skates. It is not possible to start riding the Bicycle if the player is indoors, surfing, or accompanied by another person. If the player goes indoors or starts surfing, they will leave the Bicycle automatically. In Pokémon Yellow, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, the player's walking Pokémon returns to its Poké Ball while the player is cycling. The Running Shoes and Roller Skates are unusable as long as the player is riding the Bicycle. It also allows the player to travel on Cycling Roads: on Route 16 to 18 in Kanto, the Seaside Cycling Road on Route 110 in Hoenn, and on Route 206 in Sinnoh. It is not possible to dismount the bike while on any Cycling Road. Riding the Bicycle replaces the overworld music with the Cycling theme. Once the player resumes walking, the regular overworld music starts again. In Generation IV, Bicycle's movement value in context of determining encounters is 70. This is higher than other types of movement, except for long grass (in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, long grass value is the same as riding a bicycle, while in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver it is 60 while walking and 80 while running) Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl In these games, the Bicycle has two different gears: third and fourth gear. The player can switch between them by pressing the B button. Fourth gear is faster and allows the player to ride up muddy slopes and jump two tiles from bike ramps. Third gear is slower and only jumps one tile from ramps, but cannot ride up muddy slopes. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player can choose between a red, blue, green, or yellow bicycle. They cannot switch bikes once they pick one, but all Bicycles are functionally identical. Additionally, the player will wear the Cycling Style outfit while riding the bicycle and battling at the Cycling Road. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl only, bikes cannot be ridden in snow or inside gates. The player can move in any direction using the Nintendo 3DS's Circle Pad. The player has a choice between a green and yellow Bicycle when they obtain it. They cannot switch bikes once they pick one, but both Bicycles are functionally identical. Due to a glitch, if the player saves at the Cycling Road and creates a new game, it will not be possible to use the Bicycle (or Surf outside of battle) anywhere in the new game until the player does any of these things for the first time: blacks out (either in battle or the overworld), uses Dig, Teleport, or Fly outside of battle, uses an Escape Rope, or enters and leaves the Cycling Road. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire, there are two different models of Bicycle: Mach Bike (which is faster than the regular Bicycle) and the Acro Bike (which is the same speed as the regular Bicycle, but can also be used to perform tricks). Both bicycles allow the player to reach places they otherwise could not. In Generation III, the player cannot have both at the same time. They can switch models at Rydel's Cycles. In Generation VI, the player initially needs to switch models at Rydel's Cycles as well. However, the player will be able to keep both the Mach Bike and Acro Bike together in their Bag, after the player advertises the Rydel's Cycles to three NPCs: Route 111 Desert: A Hex Maniac up a muddy slope to the north that requires the Mach Bike to climb. Route 119: A Bird Keeper at the northmost maze of bridges, requires Surf and Waterfall along with the Acro Bike. Battle Resort: A biking Triathlete southeast of the Pokémon Day Care. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the player receives the Rotom Bike. The Rotom Bike can occasionally dash to move at high speeds for short periods of time. After being upgraded with Water Mode, it can also travel on water. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, several Ride Pokémon take over the role of transporting the player across the land at higher speeds, such as Tauros Charge. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the player can ride on certain walking Pokémon. Cycling Road is replaced by Pokémon Road, where Trainers are encouaged to walk with their Pokémon. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the player can use some Ride Pokémon to travel faster than on foot, such as Wyrdeer. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the player can ride on the partner Koraidon/Miraidon after they begin their Treasure Hunt. Bicycles are rarely seen in Pokémon the Series, since Ash and his friends are usually seen walking for their journeys. The only time bicycles are used is when it is necessary to use them, such as on Cycling Roads, or for a faster way to get somewhere. The first bicycle to appear was Misty's bicycle in Pokémon - I Choose You!. It was "borrowed" by Ash in order to escape from a flock of Spearow. The bike was unintentionally destroyed when Ash's Pikachu released a Thunder Shock at the Spearow. Misty later re-obtained her bike from Nurse Joy in Viridian City in Gotta Catch Ya Later. The act of Pikachu destroying a female companion's bike became a running gag in the two following series: May's bicycle was destroyed in Get the Show on the Road! and Dawn's in Two Degrees of Separation. Bicycles can be rented for use on Cycling Roads, as seen in The Bridge Bike Gang and One Big Happiny Family!. Some characters do own bicycles, but are rarely seen using them. For example, Professor Oak used a bicycle in The Power Of One and The Road Most Traveled! to get to Delia's house. Barry was shown to have a bike in Gotta Get a Gible!. He said he got it in Eterna City as part of a free bicycle distribution event. The bike was eventually devoured by a wild Gible. In The Bridge Bike Gang, Chopper's bike bears a resemblance to Zapdos. Mallow's bike appeared in Lillie's Egg-xhilarating Challenge!. Red commonly used a bicycle to move around in Pokémon Origins. He was seen obtaining it at the beginning of File 2: Cubone, getting it in return for a Bike Voucher he had obtained from the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman. In Play Misty For Me, it was revealed that Misty's Bicycle, which, like in the animated series, had been accidentally destroyed by Ash's Pikachu, was custom-built and worth $10,000. Professor Oak used a bicycle to pursue the Pokémon that escaped from his Laboratory in Bulbasaur Come Home!. Red participated in a cycling competition along Routes 11 and 12 in Wake Up—You're Snorlax!, using a bicycle received in exchange for a coupon he had gotten from the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman. In Victim of Venusaur, Red rode his bicycle when arriving to help Lt. Surge and Bill in their battle against Bruno on Cerise Island. Gold competed with Whitney in a bike race from Goldenrod City to the National Park in Smeargle Smudge and How Do You Do, Sudowoodo?. Gold, however, altered his Bicycle into a push scooter. Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum received Bicycles from Rad Rickshaw as a sign of gratitude after his rescue from Team Galactic in Ring Around the Roserade II. The trio would later use their new Bicycles to travel through the Cycling Road. Rad Rickshaw was also revealed to own a tandem bike in Cautious Clefairy. A Bicycle was seen inside the Miracle Cycle shop in Cerulean City. In Strip 14, Delia mentioned that Ash has a bicycle. The Bicycle was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era). First released in the Cold Flare expansion, the Bicycle later debuted in the Plasma Storm expansion with both prints featuring an illustration by Toyste Beach. With the same effect as Mail from Bill from the Neo Destiny expansion, this Trainer card allows the player to draw cards until they have 4 cards in their hand. In Pokémon Power #1, there is an ad on page 3 for the bicycles sold at the Bike Shop in Cerulean City. This ad mentions that the bikes are new models, and that VIN numbers are posted at dealership. The article about Cerulean City on page 10 incorrectly indicates that the player will need to obtain the full $ 1000000 value to buy a Bicycle in Pokémon Red and Blue, by displaying a game screenshot of the Bike Shop including this value and stating: "You'll need to win a lot of duels to earn enough money for a bicycle." In Pokémon Power #2, there is an ad stating that multiple Bike Vouchers have been distributed, which can be exchanged for '98 model bikes because the store is making room for new models. The article about Vermilion City on page 6 explains how to obtain and use the Bike Voucher in Pokémon Red and Blue. A miniature of a Bicycle was included in the Kanto goods set from the Pokémon World Market merchandise line that was made by Re-Ment and exclusive to the Pokémon Center. A unique 1/1 scale replica was given away as a prize in commemoration of Twitter account @poke_times exceeding 1 mio. followers. In the beta version of Gold and Silver, a skateboard was planned to complement the Bicycle. The song Bicycle (Japanese: じてんしゃ) from Generation II and HeartGold and SoulSilver is a remix of the song Goldenrod City (Japanese: コガネシティ). Furthermore, the song Bug-Catching Contest (Japanese: むしとりたいかい) from these games remixes parts of the song Cycling (Japanese: サイクリング) from Generation I. Like all key items from Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the Mach Bike and Acro Bike are present in the internal data of Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, but are unused. If the player obtains one (i.e. via cheating), they both function like the regular Bicycle. Like all key items from Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the regular Bicycle is present in the internal data of Pokémon Emerald, but is unused. If attempted to be used, it has no effect. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, when the player attempts to enter the Cycling Road, the game does not check if the Bicycle is present in the Bag; instead, it specifically checks for the event flag indicating that player has obtained the Bicycle from Miracle Cycle. However, this makes no difference in regular gameplay, because the Bicycle (like any other Key Item in these games) is unable to be deposited in the PC, sold, or thrown away, so it remains indefinitely in the Bag after the player has obtained it. In Generation V, if the player runs or holds down the B Button, NPCs with bicycles will go faster. In Generation VI, the light of the bicycle is turned on at night, but not in caves. In the internal data of Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Bicycle was renamed "Bike" in English, despite the item being unused in those games. This rename was carried forward in all subsequent games (despite the item being unused). This updated name was used for the first time in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, where the item was once again obtainable. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Bike Maniac's collection in Cerulean City contains a limited edition bike that used to cost $1,000,000, referencing the Bicycle from Generation I. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player's Cycling Style outfit will only appear in battle if they're battling on the Cycling Road. In other locations, they will appear in their Everyday Style clothes even if they were riding a bicycle before initiating a battle. In the end credits of Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the player always rides a green (if boy) or yellow (if girl) bicycle, regardless of the color they chose.

Title: Suite Key

The Suite Key (Japanese: ルームキー Room Key) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. The Suite Key was lost by a girl at Hotel Grand Lake. It can be located using the Dowsing Machine and returned to its owner, allowing her to enter her suite. As a reward, the girl will give the player a Lava Cookie/White Flute.

Title: Member Card

The Member Card (Japanese: メンバーズカード Member's Card) is an event-exclusive Key Item available in Pokémon Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl. In Pokémon Platinum, it was the second of the four event items in the Sinnoh-based games, preceded in its distribution by the Secret Key, and followed by Oak's Letter and the then-unreleased Azure Flute. The Member Card grants the player access to the Harbor Inn in Canalave City. Shortly after, the player will meet a strange old man, have a nightmare, and travel to Newmoon Island, where Darkrai can be obtained. If Darkrai is obtained, a booming voice will talk to the player and the player will wake up from their nightmare with Darkrai either in their party or in the PC. The player can rebattle Darkrai again, if fled from or fainted. Before the player may enter the Harbor Inn using the Member Card, the player must first meet Cresselia, obtain the Lunar Wing, and use it to dispel the nightmares Darkrai inflicts on Eldritch's son. Distribution in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl In the Member Card's description, it says that the last date marked on it was 50 years ago. On the official artwork, it is labeled "1958.12.1", exactly 50 years before the first Japanese distribution. When receiving this item from the deliveryman in a Poké Mart, it is referred to as the "Member's Card".

Title: Azure Flute

The Azure Flute (Japanese: てんかいのふえ Heaven Flute) is a Key Item in the Sinnoh-based games and Pokémon Legends: Arceus, in which it is used to access the Hall of Origin, where Arceus resides. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, it is an unobtainable item. It was intended to be an event-exclusive item received through an event, but it was never distributed. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it is obtained during the main story, with the Celestica Flute transforming into it. Obtaining Arceus in Pokémon Legends: Arceus allows the Azure Flute to be obtained as a save data bonus in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. In the Sinnoh-based games, the player can only use the Azure Flute once they have caught Dialga or Palkia, entered the Hall of Fame, and obtained the National Pokédex. When the player reaches the Spear Pillar at the top of Mount Coronet and steps one tile north from the entrance, they will be prompted to use the flute, which will play a unique and eerie tune and reload the Spear Pillar map with a steep staircase that leads to the Hall of Origin. After it is used and once Arceus is caught, the Azure Flute will no longer trigger the entrance to the Hall of Origin when played at the Spear Pillar and the message "The Azure Flute echoed hollowly..." will appear. Should the player knock out Arceus, then the Azure Flute can be used to summon Arceus again. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Celestica Flute transforms into the Azure Flute after the player defeats Volo and Giratina at the Temple of Sinnoh. If it is used in the Temple of Sinnoh after every Pokémon (other than Mythical Pokémon) in the Hisui Pokédex has been obtained, the player can access the Hall of Origin and encounter Arceus. Like the Celestica Flute, it is used by the player to summon the rideable Wyrdeer, Ursaluna, Basculegion, Sneasler, and Hisuian Braviary. The Azure Flute was never distributed in the Generation IV games. Junichi Masuda revealed in an interview with Nintendo World Report in 2013 that the Azure Flute was thought to be too confusing for players to use, leading to the decision to not distribute it. Despite the Azure Flute never having been distributed, the Wonder Card text for the Arceus distributed during Pokémon's 20th Anniversary made reference to it. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Azure Flute can potentially be the first item obtained by the player. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, simply possessing the Azure Flute (such as by modifying the save file to directly add the Azure Flute to the Bag) does not grant access to the Hall of Origin. The player must actually receive a Wonder Card with the Azure Flute through Mystery Gift and obtain the flute from the Poké Mart deliveryman, which sets the event flag necessary to use the flute. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Azure Flute is the only event item that was never distributed, though the other event items were only distributed to Platinum. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the mysterious transmission that can be heard on the radio while in the Ruins of Alph sounds similar to the Azure Flute. It increases the chance of encountering a form of Unown the player has not encountered yet. 天界(てんかい)の笛(ふえ) means "flute of heaven." 天界(てんかい) means "heaven"/"the heavens" and, like the English "heaven(s)", can refer to the sky as well as to heaven in a religious sense. 笛(ふえ) means a flute or similar musical instrument. "Azure" means the color of a clear, blue sky and, by association (metonymy), is a poetic word for such a sky itself.

Title: Contest Pass

A Contest Pass (Japanese: コンテストパス Contest Pass) is a Key Item that allows players to participate in Pokémon Contests. It has a drawing of an award Ribbon on its front. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire, a Contest Pass is required for entering Pokémon Contests. In Pokémon Emerald, a Contest Pass is not needed; instead, only a Pokéblock Case is required. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum and Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, all that is required to participate in Pokémon Super Contests/Super Contest Shows is something formal to wear, given to the player by Johanna on entering the Contest Hall for the first time. In the animated series, Contest Passes serve the same purpose as they do in the games, being required to participate in Pokémon Contests. In this canon, a Coordinator may register for a Contest Pass at any Contest Hall. It should be noted that a Contest Pass can only be used to enter events in the region in which it was obtained. In addition, Contest Passes will become invalid after a time, needing to be renewed. In competitions not sanctioned by the Pokémon Activities Committee, such as the Terracotta Contest, Contest Passes are not required. Contest Passes first appeared in All Things Bright and Beautifly!, where Jessie was seen trying to enter the Rustboro Contest with an expired Contest Pass. Jessie was shocked when she heard that her Pass was invalid, but the receptionist informed her that she could renew it. With her Pass renewed, Jessie grabbed the last entry in the competition. Later, when Ash, May, and Brock appeared wishing to compete as well, the attendant said the competition had already reached the maximum number of contestants allowed, but still issued Contest Passes for them. May obtained a Contest Pass for the Kanto region in The Saffron Con along with a Ribbon case. In What I Did for Love!, Brock obtained his Kanto Contest Pass after meeting Yuma, a fellow Pokémon Breeder and a former Grand Festival winner. Brock became infatuated by her, and when she told him that he should enter the Gardenia Contest, he hurried to the reception desk to register for the tournament. In Mounting a Coordinator Assault!, Dawn was practicing to make her stage debut when she noticed that Ash's Aipom had developed an interest in Pokémon Contests and wanted to participate as well. She convinced Ash to enter the competition, and Brock mentioned that Ash should rush to the registration as the Jubilife Contest would take place soon. At that moment, Dawn realized she had forgotten to sign up for the event. After that, Ash and Dawn ran towards the Contest Hall to obtain their Contest Passes and sign up. Along with the Pass, they received a rule book, a Ribbon case, a Ball Capsule, and an envelope full of Seals. In Reuniting for the First Time!, Chloe received a Hoenn Contest Pass from Lisia after she had scouted her for a potential performance at the Lilycove City Contest Spectacular. Ruby obtained his Hoenn Contest Pass in Mind-Boggling with Medicham.

Title: Magma Stone

The Magma Stone (Japanese: かざんのおきいし Volcano Stone) is a Key Item introduced in the Generation IV games, and is associated with the Legendary Pokémon Heatran. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, if the player takes the Magma Stone to a special chamber in Reversal Mountain, they can encounter a wild Heatran. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum and Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Magma Stone is an item that rests in Stark Mountain. In Pokémon Platinum, it is explained that the Magma Stone is able to control Heatran, the Legendary Pokémon that lives in the mountain. While the Magma Stone exists in the games' data as an item, the player cannot obtain it and it has no effect even if hacked into the player's possession. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, Buck takes the Magma Stone from Stark Mountain, but returns it after receiving advice from his grandfather at the Survival Area. In Pokémon Platinum, Charon takes the Magma Stone from Stark Mountain, but Looker has his Croagunk confiscate it; after Charon is arrested, Buck takes the Magma Stone back to its resting place. Once the Magma Stone has been returned, the player can encounter a wild Heatran where the Magma Stone originally rested. The Magma Stone appeared in The Magma Stone. It was removed from its stone altar inside Stark Mountain by Charon, causing Heatran to awaken and go on a rampage inside the mountain. With the help of Looker and his Croagunk, Buck ultimately managed to return the Magma Stone to the altar, resealing Heatran and making it disappear. The Magma Stone first appeared in Interrupting Ivysaur. Buck decided to protect it from Team Galactic by taking it away. However, in Exit Empoleon, it turned out that upon removing the Magma Stone from its spot, he had unwittingly unsealed Heatran, allowing Charon to capture the Lava Dome Pokémon. The Magma Stone appeared in A Clash! Hareta vs. Charon and The Anger of Legendary Pokémon Heatran, where it was knocked off of its pedestal due to Charon's activities at Stark Mountain, causing Heatran to go on a rampage. The stone was eventually restored to its rightful place by Hareta, calming Heatran down.

Title: Parcel

The Parcel (Japanese: おとどけもの Parcel), known as Oak's Parcel prior to Generation IV, is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. It has been also referred to as package, parcel, and order. In Pokémon Red, Blue, Yellow, FireRed, and LeafGreen, the Parcel contains a custom Poké Ball that is kept by Professor Oak. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Parcel contains Razz Berries that Professor Oak shares with the player and Trace. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl, the Parcel contains two Town Maps of the Sinnoh region. Barry gives one to the player. Pokémon Red, Blue, Yellow, FireRed, LeafGreen, Let's Go, Pikachu!, and Let's Go, Eevee! The player is able to deliver this Parcel to Professor Oak by talking to him in his Laboratory while this the Parcel is in the Bag. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! only, when the Parcel is obtained from the clerk of the Viridian City Poké Mart, the player has the option to immediately deliver it to Professor Oak. In earlier games, the player was required to walk all the way back through Route 1 to deliver this item. When delivered to Professor Oak, he gives to the player and rival: One of Professor Oak's Fame Checker entries is unlocked. Professor Oak will be available for rating the player's Pokédex completion. In the PC, the "Oak's PC" option is unlocked for rating the player's Pokédex completion. Daisy Oak gives the player a Town Map if the player interacts with her. The old man or the Team Rocket trio stops blocking Viridian City's north exit. The rival becomes temporarily available for an optional battle on Route 22. The player will be able to connect with other games in order to battle or trade Pokémon. The player will be able to buy items from Viridian City Poké Mart. In Japanese Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, and Yellow, and all versions of Pokémon Yellow, if the player obtains multiple Pokémon (such as by evolving the first partner Pokémon) before delivering the Parcel, it will be permanently unable to be delivered due to a glitch. The game will assume that the player already has the Pokédex, and Professor Oak will offer to rate it instead of accepting the Parcel. The player will be permanently unable to progress in the game past Viridian City, and the other in-game events (obtaining the Pokédex and Town Map, buying items from the Poké Mart, connecting with other games) will not be available to the player. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, if the Parcel was obtained from glitches instead of from the Viridian City Poké Mart, it will not be possible to deliver it before properly obtaining it as intended. The game specifically checks for the event flag that the Parcel was received instead of checking if it is currently in the Bag. Conversely, if the Parcel was received from the Poké Mart but was later removed from the Bag using glitches, this event will work even without the Parcel in the Bag. Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl When brought to the player's rival Barry in Jubilife City's Trainers' School, the Parcel will be opened, revealing that it contains two Town Maps. The player and their rival take one each.

Title: Storage Key

For the key used to open the locked storage door at the Abandoned Ship or Sea Mauville, see Storage Key (Hoenn) For the key used to open the locked door at the Galactic Warehouse, see Storage Key (Sinnoh)

Title: Griseous Orb

The Griseous Orb (Japanese: はっきんだま Platinum Orb) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Platinum. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Ghost-type moves when held by Giratina, and prior to Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it would change Giratina into its Origin Forme while held. It is one of the orbs associated with the Pokémon of myth. If held by Giratina, it increases the power of its Dragon- and Ghost-type moves by 20%. Unaffected by item negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Giratina a Griseous Orb or remove a Griseous Orb from Giratina. The Griseous Orb is now affected by item manipulating and negating effects due to no longer causing Giratina to change form. From Generation IV to VIII, the Griseous Orb allows Giratina to remain in its Origin Forme outside of the Distortion World. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the Griseous Core must be held to transform Giratina into its Origin Forme instead. In Pokémon Platinum and HeartGold and SoulSilver, only Giratina can hold a Griseous Orb, and Pokémon holding a Griseous Orb cannot be traded. From Generation V onward, these restrictions no longer apply.

Title: Gracidea

This article is about the item. For the location featured in the eleventh movie, see Gracidea (Sinnoh). The Gracidea (Japanese: グラシデアのはな Gracidea Flower) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon Platinum. It is a type of flower that resembles the flowers on Shaymin's head. It allows Land Forme Shaymin to change into Sky Forme. In some places, people give bouquets of these flowers that resemble Shaymin to thank someone to express their gratitude, relating to Shaymin being the Gratitude Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a Land Forme Shaymin, the Gracidea changes it into Sky Forme. It cannot be used at night or on a frozen Shaymin. Shaymin changes back to Land Forme during the night, if it is frozen, when deposited into the PC (prior to Generation VII), when withdrawn from the PC (Generation VII), when deposited into Pokémon Bank, or when deposited in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery. Note that in Generation IV and V, any legitimately-obtained Shaymin will have the fateful encounter flag. Only in Pokémon Legends: Arceus can the Gracidea be problematic to obtain, as even if the player possesses a Shaymin, the Gracidea cannot be obtained without the save data bonus from Pokémon Sword and Shield. The Gracidea appears as a toy in the Japanese version of My Pokémon Ranch, after receiving the Platinum-Compatible Version. As in the handhelds, it is used to change Shaymin between its Land and Sky Formes. It only appears if the player has the Gracidea on their Platinum cartridge. As this update is unavailable outside of Japan, the Gracidea cannot be obtained by international players of My Pokémon Ranch. The Gracidea appears in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky. Upon being used in a dungeon, the Gracidea is consumed and changes Shaymin to its Sky Forme, increasing Movement Speed by 1. Upon leaving the dungeon or reaching a rest stop, Shaymin reverts to its Land Forme. A field of Gracideas is found in Latolato Trail in Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs. In a Special Mission involving Shaymin, the flowers in the field is used by Shaymin to transform. In PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure, Gracideas appear in the Flower Zone. It is necessary to water these Gracideas in order to make them bloom. Shaymin will then change form and guide the player to the Sky Pavilion. Gracideas first appeared in Giratina and the Sky Warrior, in which Ash, Dawn, and Brock met Layla and her husband Moose. The couple was on the way to Layla's great-grandmother's hundredth birthday party, and they wanted to give her a bouquet of Gracideas as a way to express their gratitude. As the group was traveling with Shaymin, Layla bonded with the Gratitude Pokémon, and when Shaymin touched the bouquet, it immediately changed into its Sky Forme. Later on, Shaymin reunited with several members of its species in a field full of Gracideas. In the ending credits, Delia, Johanna, and Lola were seen receiving Gracidea gift baskets sent by their children. The same field of Gracideas was later seen in a flashback in Arceus and the Jewel of Life, when Sheena and Kevin visited the area. In Keeping in Top Forme!, a Gracidea garden is featured. All of the Gracidea in the garden have died except for a few. The Shaymin befriended by Marley used it to change into Sky Forme, along with two other Shaymin, and then migrated in order to find another garden. In Strategy Begins at Home!, flowers that look similar to Gracideas are seen in Johanna's garden. In Memories in the Mist!, Gracidea flowers were shown in a world between life and death, created by Tapu Fini's mist. They were blooming as Mallow and her mother both displayed gratitude towards each other during their reunion, after the same mist also temporarily brought Mallow's mother's spirit back from the dead. A single Gracidea was shown at the Ancient Poni Path, as Mallow noticed a nearby Shaymin walking towards her. In Thank You, Alola! The Journey Continues!, Ulu brought Mallow some Gracideas he had found on his way home. Shaymin promptly touched the flowers and turned into its Sky Forme. Some Gracideas were also seen blooming near Aina's Kitchen while Mallow watched Shaymin flying away with others of its kind. A Gracidea first appeared in The Final Dimensional Duel IV, having being picked up by Marley from the Floaroma Meadow before arriving at Route 224 to meet up with Shaymin and ask its assistance for the final battle against Team Galactic, following the instructions in Oak's Letter. In The Final Dimensional Duel X, Shaymin used the same Gracidea to turn into its Sky Forme to fight Giratina, which was being controlled by Charon. In Pokémon X and Y, Gracideas are featured in one of the paintings on display at the Lumiose Museum. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, a bow resembling a Gracidea also appears on the Sky Gifts found in Sky Peak.

Title: Secret Key

For the Key Item in Generations I, III, and VII that is used to enter the Cinnabar Gym, see Secret Key (Kanto) For the Key Item in Generation IV used to enter Rotom's Room, see Secret Key (Sinnoh)

Title: Apricorn Box

The Apricorn Box (Japanese: ぼんぐりケース Bonguri Case) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IV. The Apricorn Box allows the player to pick and store Apricorns. Up to 99 of each Apricorn can be held at a time. After obtaining the Apriblender at the Pokéathlon Dome, the player can use it from the Apricorn Box as well. In An Egg Scramble!, Apricorn Boxes were one of the things Khoury was selling at the Johto Festival. Pokémon HeartGold SoulSilver: Pokédex Completion Comic An Apricorn Box appeared in Pokémon HeartGold SoulSilver: Pokédex Completion Comic, where a female Trainer explained to Soul how Apricorns can be used to make different kinds of Poké Balls.

Title: Berry Pots

The Berry Pots (Japanese: きのみプランター Berry Planter) are Key Items introduced in Generation IV. The Berry Pots are four portable planters that allow the player to plant, water, and grow Berry trees while traveling. In An Egg Scramble!, Berry Pots filled with Lum Berry plants were one of the things Khoury was selling at the Johto Festival.

Title: Squirt Bottle

The Squirt Bottle (Japanese: ゼニガメじょうろ Zenigame Watering Can), formatted as SquirtBottle prior to Generation VI, is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. It is a watering can fashioned after a Squirtle. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, it allows the player to water a Sudowoodo posing as a tree that is blocking the path on Route 36, prompting a battle with the wild Pokémon. After completing the battle, the Sudowoodo no longer obstructs the path to Ecruteak City. Additionally, in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the Squirt Bottle is used to water Berry plants grown in the Berry Pots. Main article: Squirt Bottle (Wisdom of Sea and Sky 152) The Squirt Bottle is introduced as an Item card in Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket, released in the Wisdom of Sea and Sky expansion. It lets the player discard a (Fire) Energy from their opponent's Active Pokémon. Prior to Pokémon Journeys: The Series, Squirt Bottles in Pokémon the Series were depicted with legs, unlike in the games. James used a Squirt Bottle on a wild Sudowoodo in Type Casting, thinking that it was a Grass type. It reappeared in Here's Lookin' at You, Elekid during a fantasy where James watered his Victreebel. Another Squirt Bottle appeared in Johto Photo Finish, where Mimey was seen watering the plants in the Ketchum residence. A Squirt Bottle belonging to Miranda appeared in The Princess and the Togepi, and was used to water her garden. In The Road Most Traveled!, Delia used a Squirt Bottle to water her flowers. Professor Oak used a Squirt Bottle in I Choose You!, watering a Bellsprout and an Oddish with it. Whitney's Cleffa used a Squirt Bottle on a Sudowoodo in A Huge Mysterious Tree!!. The following gallery is of cards mentioning or featuring the Squirt Bottle in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. The Squirt Bottle has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Lure Ball

The Lure Ball (Japanese: ルアーボール Lure Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed in fishing encounters. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from Blue Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If the encounter is a fishing encounter, it has a 3×/5×/4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the Lure Ball was changed to function like the Dive Ball due to the removal of fishing, and has a 4× catch rate modifier if used while the Pokémon is currently on or in water. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet v1.1.0 and previous versions, due to a glitch, it will only ever have a 1× catch rate modifier, regardless of the capture conditions. This bug was fixed sometime between v1.1.0 and v3.0.0. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the bonus works like in Scarlet and Violet, but was lowered to only 3.5×. The Lure Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Lure Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. In Going Apricorn!, a Lure Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Gettin' The Bugs Out, Ash and Misty each received a Lure Ball made for them by Kurt. In The Totodile Duel, Ash and Misty both wanted to catch a wild Totodile, and simultaneously threw their Lure Balls at him. One of the Lure Balls caught him, but it was unclear whose Ball it was. As Ash and Misty both wanted Totodile for themselves, Brock declared a match to decide who would get to keep the Big Jaw Pokémon. In the end, Ash won the match, allowing him to keep Totodile, while Misty kept the remaining Lure Ball. In Trouble's Brewing, Sumomo was revealed to keep her Vaporeon in a Lure Ball. In A Corsola Caper!, Misty used her Lure Ball to catch a Corsola. In Octillery The Outcast, a Lure Ball was featured on a poster for the Whirl Cup. In Dueling Heroes, Christopher was revealed to keep his Kingdra in a Lure Ball attached to the end of a fishing line. In Found You, Fuecoco!, the Lure Ball was mentioned in one of Nidothing's videos. In Teddiursa's Picnic, a Lure Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, a Lure Ball was seen amongst Crystal's set of Apricorn Poké Balls. In Off Course with Corsola, some of the Pokémon that Crystal had caught for Professor Oak were seen in Lure Balls. Later in the same chapter, Crystal caught a Corsola in a Lure Ball. In Absolutely Azumarill, several Lure Balls were seen in a basket full of Apricorn Poké Balls that Mirei delivered to Crystal. In The Great Search! Let's Rescue The Slowpoke!, Gold used Lure Balls given to him by Kurt to help him save a group of Slowpoke from drowning in the flooding Slowpoke Well. In A Spectacular Battle To Save Ampharos!!, Black was revealed to keep his Gyarados in a Lure Ball. In Let's Survive This Sea Battle, a ship captain lent Gold his Remoraid, which was contained in a Lure Ball. Debuting in the Skyridge expansion, the Lure Ball is different from the basic Poké Balls in that it draws from the discard pile rather than the deck. For each heads flipped, with a maximum of three, an Evolution card can be returned from the discard pile and put into the hand. It was reprinted in Celestial Storm. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and the TCG, Lure Balls are shown to have a green outer coloring; however, in official artwork, they are shown to have a blue outer coloring. Starting in Generation V, the Lure Ball's color is changed to the blue in the games as well. However, the Celestial Storm reprint of the Lure Ball card, released in 2018, reuses the artwork from its original TCG print, depicting the Lure Ball as green. In the animated series, Lure Balls have switched their color scheme twice. In their early appearances, they were colored green, before switching to blue later during Pokémon the Series: Gold and Silver. However, upon the animated series's switch to full digital animation in Here's Lookin' at You, Elekid, Lure Balls regained their green coloration, and have maintained it ever since.

Title: Level Ball

The Level Ball (Japanese: レベルボール Level Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed the higher the player's Pokémon's level is than the wild Pokémon's. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from Red Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon with the following catch rate modifiers: 1× if the player's Pokémon is less than or equal to the level of the wild Pokémon 2× if the player's Pokémon is at a higher level, but less than double, the level of the wild Pokémon 4× if the player's Pokémon is at a level at least two times, but less than four times, the level of the wild Pokémon 8× if the player's Pokémon is at a level at least four times that of the wild Pokémon In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, due to a coding error, the wild Pokémon's remaining HP and possible status conditions are ignored when calculating the catch rate; only the wild Pokémon's level is used for calculation if using a Level Ball. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, if the player does not have a Pokémon out, the Level Ball will always have a catch rate modifier of 1×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Level Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the player’s turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Level Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. In Going Apricorn!, a Level Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Teddiursa's Picnic, a Level Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, Crystal caught a group of Slugma in Level Balls. They reappeared in a flashback in The Final Battle IV. In Off Course with Corsola, some of the Pokémon that Crystal had caught for Professor Oak were seen in Level Balls. In Absolutely Azumarill, several Level Balls were seen in a basket full of Apricorn Poké Balls that Mirei delivered to Crystal. In It Takes Xatu to Tango, Crystal threw a Level Ball at Arceus in order to estimate its strength. As the Ball had no effect on the Alpha Pokémon, she decided to use a Heavy Ball instead. In For Pikachu's Sake!! The Search For The Missing Farfetch'd, Gold received a Level Ball from Kurt as thanks for helping to save the Slowpoke in the Slowpoke Well from drowning. In Let's Fight For The Future!!, he used it to capture and stop the rampage of the Black Tyranitar. The Ball containing the Black Tyranitar was then sealed underneath a statue in Cianwood City. The Level Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era). It was first released in the Japanese Psycho Drive expansion and the English Next Destinies expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. During the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era), it was reprinted in the Japanese Bandit Ring expansion and the English Ancient Origins expansion with new artwork by Toyste Beach. During the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era), it was reprinted again in the Japanese Rapid Strike Master expansion and the English Battle Styles expansion, as both a Regular card and a hyper rare card featuring new artwork by Ryo Ueda. This card allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon that has 90 HP or less and put it in their hand.

Title: Moon Ball

The Moon Ball (Japanese: ムーンボール Moon Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed against Pokémon that evolve by using a Moon Stone. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from Yellow Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. The Moon Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). Main article: List of battle glitches in Generation II → Moon Ball oversight In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, the Moon Ball always has a 1× catch rate. The Moon Ball was intended to be more effective on Pokémon that evolve by using the Moon Stone. However, in this generation only, due to an oversight, the Moon Ball has a 4× catch rate modifier if the wild Pokémon has at least two branched Evolutions: The first branch must be an Evolution by using any Evolution stone or any other item directly from the Bag. The second branch must specifically use the 10th method of Evolution (index number 0x0A), which does not actually exist in-game because there are only 5 index numbers for methods of Evolution in this generation. This occurs because, instead of checking what exactly is the item used to evolve the wild Pokémon, the game checks the memory address that would store the method of the 2nd branched Evolution (if any) of this Pokémon. Additionally, instead of looking for the Moon Stone index number (0x08 in Generation II), it looks for the Burn Heal index number (0x0A, which used to be the index number of the Moon Stone in Generation I). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, if the wild Pokémon is part of an evolutionary line that includes a Pokémon who evolves by using a Moon Stone, it has a 4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If the wild Pokémon is of a species that evolves by using a Moon Stone (no longer including the rest of their evolutionary line), it has a 4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Moon Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. In Going Apricorn!, a Moon Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Trouble's Brewing, Satsuki was revealed to keep her Jolteon in a Moon Ball. In Teddiursa's Picnic, a Moon Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, a Moon Ball was seen amongst Crystal's set of Apricorn Poké Balls. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, contrary to a common misconception, the Moon Ball has no increased catch rate against a Pokémon that evolves using a Burn Heal. As mentioned above, due to an oversight, the Moon Ball strictly checks for the branched Evolutions instead of the Evolution items in these games. Prior to Pokémon Sword and Shield, it was impossible to legitimately observe the Moon Ball's bonus on Munna, as it could not be encountered in the wild in any of the games where Moon Balls could be obtained. Prior to Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, this was the case for Skitty as well.

Title: Heavy Ball

This article is about the Poké Ball made from a Black Apricorn. For the Poké Ball from Legends: Arceus, see Heavy Ball (Hisui). The Heavy Ball (Japanese: ヘビーボール Heavy Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed the heavier the Pokémon is. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from Black Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. The Heavy Ball is more effective against heavier Pokémon and less effective against lighter Pokémon, varying based on several discrete weight groups. The modifiers used are listed below. If the modified catch rate exceeds 255, it is instead set to 255. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The catch rate used in the calculation is still modified as normal by the Heavy Ball, however. In Pokémon Crystal only, there is a glitch that causes the retrieved weights of Pokémon whose index numbers are divisible by 64 (Kadabra, Tauros, and Sunflora) to become junk data that are, in turn, interpreted as massive weights, causing these particular Pokémon to receive the +40 capture modifier. In Gold and Silver, these Pokémon's weights are retrieved correctly, giving them a -20 catch modifier. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the ±0 and -20 modifiers were supposed to work like Generation II's, but the -20's modifier instead checks if the catch rate is less than 1024, rather than the weight (internally, weights are stored as tenths of kilograms), which is always true, so when the ±0's "less than 204.8 kg" check is passed, -20's will always be as well. In all games except Pokémon Sun and Moon, if using the Heavy Ball would cause the wild Pokémon's catch rate to become negative, it is instead set to 1. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, it is instead set to 0, making it impossible to successfully catch such a Pokémon with a Heavy Ball in those games. If the player uses the Heavy Ball on a transformed wild Pokémon (either from Transform or Imposter), its weight after transformation is taken into account instead of its original weight. The Heavy Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Heavy Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. Despite being unobtainable as an item in Generation VI, a Heavy Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. In Going Apricorn!, a Heavy Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Gettin' The Bugs Out, Brock received a Heavy Ball made for him by Kurt. It has not been seen or mentioned since. In Gulpin it Down, Nurse Joy gave Professor Jacuzzi a Heavy Ball to catch a giant Gulpin. In Teddiursa's Picnic, Silver received a Heavy Ball from Kurt, crafted from a Black Apricorn he had given to the man earlier. He used the Ball in the next chapter to catch a wild Ursaring that was attacking Gold and Maizie. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, a Heavy Ball was seen amongst Crystal's set of Apricorn Poké Balls. In Off Course with Corsola, some of the Pokémon that Crystal had caught for Professor Oak were seen in Heavy Balls. In Suddenly Suicune (Part 1), Crystal attempted to catch Suicune in a Heavy Ball, but it soon broke out of it, much to Crystal's shock. In Absolutely Azumarill, several Heavy Balls were seen in a basket full of Apricorn Poké Balls that Mirei delivered to Crystal. In It Takes Xatu to Tango, Crystal tried to catch Arceus in a Heavy Ball, but even though Arceus was momentarily sucked into the Ball, it quickly broke out of it. In The Great Search! Let's Rescue The Slowpoke!, Gold used a Heavy Ball given to him by Kurt to save an especially large Slowpoke from drowning in the flooding Slowpoke Well. In A Spectacular Battle To Save Ampharos!!, Jasmine was revealed to keep her Steelix in a Heavy Ball. Pokémon HeartGold SoulSilver: Pokédex Completion Comic Soul used a Heavy Ball he received from a female Trainer to catch a Steelix. A Heavy Ball appeared in Get the Legendary Pokémon!. Red intended to use it to catch one of the Legendary beasts, but ended up accidentally using it on a Ditto instead. The Heavy Ball is an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game introduced during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era). First released in the Next Destinies expansion, it was reprinted in the Japanese Master Deck Build Box EX before being reprinted worldwide for the BREAKthrough expanstion. This version was included in the Japanese The Best of XY compilation. When a player uses a Heavy Ball, they are allowed to search their deck for a Pokémon with a Retreat Cost of 3 or more, reveal it, and put it into their hand. The user shuffles their deck afterward. In Pokémon Sun and Moon only, a Heavy Ball will always fail to catch a Pokémon whose weight is less than 220.46 lbs (100.0 kg) and whose catch rate is less than or equal to 20. This is because the game will set the catch rate to 0 when the catch rate becomes negative due to the -20 modifier that is applied. The only catchable Pokémon that this affects are Beldum and the guardian deities. Starting in Generation VI, the Heavy Ball gained two extra blue protrusions on its back, mirroring the two featured on its front.

Title: Fast Ball

The Fast Ball (Japanese: スピードボール Speed Ball), also referred to as the Speed Ball, is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed against Pokémon that are fast or quick to flee. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from White Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. It has an increased catch rate modifier against certain species of Pokémon. The Fast Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the player's turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). If the wild Pokémon is Magnemite, Grimer, or Tangela, the Fast Ball has a 4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. While it is intended to be more effective against all Pokémon that can flee, due to a glitch, it is only effective against the first three Pokémon in the list of Pokémon that have a 10% chance of fleeing (these three being Magnemite, Grimer, and Tangela). The code was intended to instead check the three tables of Pokémon that have a chance of fleeing (Pokémon that have a 10% chance to flee, Pokémon that have a 50% chance to flee, and Pokémon that always flee). If the wild Pokémon has a base Speed stat of 100 or more, the Fast Ball has a 4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Fast Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. In Generation II games, the Japanese item description mentions 「にげあしの はやい ポケモン」 (Pokémon that are quick to run away), but in the localization this was adapted as "fast Pokémon" instead. In Going Apricorn!, Ash, Brock, and Misty each received a Fast Ball from Kurt. While Brock used his Fast Ball to catch a Pineco later in the same episode, Ash and Misty's Fast Balls have not been seen or mentioned since, although Ash's Fast Ball makes a cameo appearance in the fifth Japanese opening theme, Ready Go!, and the dub opening theme for Pokémon: Master Quest, Believe in Me. In Trouble's Brewing, Tamao was revealed to keep her Umbreon in a Fast Ball. In Teddiursa's Picnic, a Fast Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, a Fast Ball was seen amongst Crystal's set of Apricorn Poké Balls. In Surrounded by Staryu, Crystal used Fast Balls to catch a group of Staryu. In Off Course with Corsola, some of the Pokémon that Crystal had caught for Professor Oak were seen in Fast Balls. In Absolutely Azumarill, several Fast Balls were seen in a basket full of Apricorn Poké Balls that Mirei delivered to Crystal. In The Great Search! Let's Rescue The Slowpoke!, Gold used Fast Balls given to him by Kurt to help him save a group of Slowpoke from drowning in the flooding Slowpoke Well. The Fast Ball allows the player to go through their deck, turning over cards one at a time until they find the first Evolution card, and then taking that into their hand, shuffling afterward. It debuted in Skyridge. In official artwork and in-battle from Generation V onward, the Fast Ball is shown to be red. However, its Bag sprite and Pokémon Global Link artwork are orange, and it appears orange in-battle in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. The Fast Ball includes a stylized S in its design. This is a reference to its Japanese name, Speed Ball. In Generation II, despite the Fast Ball's intended effect to be more effective against Pokémon that can run away from battle, its English item description in Generation II instead implies that it is more effective against fast Pokémon in that generation. Conversely, from Generation V onward, its description implies it is more effective against Pokémon that can run away, when in fact it is more effective against fast Pokémon in those generations. As a consequence, Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver are the only games in which the Fast Ball’s English description actually matches its effect. In Pokémon Gold and Silver: Complete Pokédex (page 21), this item is incorrectly described as follows: "Use a Fast Ball when you're trying to catch a Pokémon that runs away quickly, such as Raikou or Skarmory." In Generation II games, the 4× catch rate modifier does not actually apply to Raikou or Skarmory as explained above, and wild Skarmory do not flee from battles nonetheless (unlike Raikou). However, this catch rate modifier does apply to Raikou from Generation IV onwards.

Title: Friend Ball

The Friend Ball (Japanese: フレンドボール Friend Ball), also referred to as the Friendship Ball, is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon. Pokémon caught in a Friend Ball become more friendly. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from Green Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1×. If caught, the Pokémon's friendship is set to 200 in Generations II through VII, or 150 in Generation VIII onwards. It has no effect on the friendship of Pokémon hatched in a Friend Ball. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Friend Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Friend Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. Pokémon Breeders keep their Pokémon in Friend Balls. Despite being unobtainable as an item in Generation VI, a Friend Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. In Going Apricorn!, a Friend Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Teddiursa's Picnic, Gold received a Friend Ball from Kurt. In the next chapter, he used it to catch a Teddiursa for Maizie. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, a Friend Ball was seen amongst Crystal's set of Apricorn Poké Balls. Chuck keeps his Pokémon in Friend Balls, as seen in The Secret Of The Fighting Type Pokémon with his Poliwrath and in Let's Fight For The Future!! with his Primeape. Debuting in Skyridge, the Friend Ball allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon of the same type as one of the opponent's Pokémon. It was later reprinted in Celestial Storm. A Kids' WB promo that aired during the fourth season showcasing the various Apricorn Poké Balls incorrectly referred to the Friend Ball as the "Stun Ball."

Title: Love Ball

The Love Ball (Japanese: ラブラブボール Lovey-Dovey Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed against a Pokémon of the opposite gender to the player's Pokémon. It is one of Kurt's signature Apricorn Poké Balls, and is made from Pink Apricorns. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, while it is intended to be more effective against Pokémon of the opposite gender, due to a glitch, it has an 8× catch rate modifier against Pokémon of both the same species and gender as the player's active Pokémon, having a 1× modifier otherwise. Starting in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, if the wild Pokémon is the same species and of the opposite gender to the player's active Pokémon, it has an 8× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, if the player does not have a Pokémon out, the Love Ball will always have a catch rate modifier of 1×. If used on an Ultra Beast, the catch rate modifier is instead always set to 410/4096× (~0.1×). The Love Ball cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the turn (as well as the ball prior to Generation IV). In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, Love Balls cannot be held. This is to prevent them from being held by a Pokémon traded to Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, where the item does not exist. Despite being unobtainable as an item in Generation VI, a Love Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. In Going Apricorn!, a Love Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In The Professors' New Adventure!, a chandelier stand based on a Love Ball was seen during Professor Kukui and Professor Burnet's wedding. In Teddiursa's Picnic, a Love Ball appeared in a fantasy during Maizie's explanation about Apricorn Poké Balls. In Slugging It Out with Slugma, a Love Ball was seen amongst Crystal's set of Apricorn Poké Balls. In For Pikachu's Sake!! The Search For The Missing Farfetch'd, Whitney was shown to have received a Love Ball from Kurt. The Love Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was first released in the Japanese Crimson Haze subset and the English Twilight Masquerade expansion, with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. The card allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon that has the same name as 1 of their opponent's Pokémon in play and put it onto their hand. Afterwards, the player shuffles their deck. In Trouble's Brewing, it was shown that each of the Kimono Sisters kept their Pokémon in an Apricorn Poké Ball. Although Koume's Flareon's Poké Ball was not shown, the pattern on her kimono indicates that it would be a Love Ball. It is never stated in-game that the increased catch rate modifier requires the target Pokémon to be the same species as the player's Pokémon.

Title: Park Ball

If you were looking for the Poké Ball known as the Park Ball in Generation II, see Sport Ball. The Park Ball (Japanese: パークボール Park Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation IV. It can be used to re-catch Pokémon migrated to Pal Park. When used in a Catching Show encounter in Pal Park, it catches the encountered Pokémon without fail. The player does not gain ownership of the caught Pokémon until they complete the Catching Show and choose to place the caught Pokémon in their Storage System. The migrated Pokémon remain in the Poké Balls in which they were contained in Generation III; no Pokémon can have a Park Ball as its own Poké Ball. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, as an unused item, the Park Ball loads the standard Poké Ball graphics and animation instead of its own when used from the Poké Balls pocket in battle. When the player participates in Pal Park's Catching Show, they receive six Park Balls exclusively for use within the show. They are not placed in the player's Bag, and the player returns any unused Park Balls they have remaining if they leave the Catching Show. A Park Ball appeared as an image in Partner Promises!. The Park Ball is not programmed as an inventory item in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. It was added as one in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and has remained that way since, although it can never actually be seen in the Bag. The Park Ball's description was changed in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl to mention Ramanas Park instead of the Pal Park, despite the fact that Park Balls are unobtainable and are not used in Ramanas Park. It was changed again in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet to mention the Pal Park as it did originally. The Park Ball and Strange Ball are the only Poké Balls that cannot be a Pokémon's own Poké Ball, due to Pokémon caught in the Pal Park retaining their original Poké Balls. The Park Ball, Cherish Ball, and Strange Ball are the only Poké Balls in the core series games that have never been obtainable as items in any core series game.

Title: Sport Ball

The Sport Ball (Japanese: コンペボール Competition Ball), referred to as the Park Ball (Japanese: パークボール Park Ball) in Generation II and formatted as ParkBall in its battle menu entry, is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation II. It can be used to catch wild Pokémon during a Bug-Catching Contest at the National Park. This Poké Ball's name was changed due to the introduction of a different Poké Ball called a Park Ball in Generation IV. When used in a wild encounter, it will attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with a catch rate modifier of 1.5×. The player can only have these Poké Balls in their possession during a Bug-Catching Contest in Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver. In the Generation II games, as an unused item, the Park Ball has a minor graphical bug when used from the Ball Pocket in battle. Starting in Pokémon Sword and Shield's The Isle of Armor DLC, the Sport Ball can now be obtained outside of the Bug-Catching Contest and used in regular wild encounters. When the player participates in the Bug-Catching Contest, they receive 20 Sport Balls exclusively for use within the contest. They are not placed in the player's Bag, and any unused Sport Balls are returned at the end of the competition. In The Bug Stops Here, Ash and Casey participated in a Bug-Catching Contest, receiving a Park Ball each, meant to be used during the competition. Casey used her Park Ball to catch a Weedle, while Ash caught himself a Beedrill. Eventually, Ash's catch won him the contest, earning him a Sun Stone and his new Beedrill as prizes, with the Beedrill being placed inside a regular Poké Ball before he chose to give it to Casey as a gift. A Park Ball was shown in volume 13 during an explanation of how each of the Poké Balls known at the time worked. In its Pokémon Global Link artwork, the Sport Ball has an S marking on the upper half. In the games, it instead has a Poké Ball symbol in its place.

Title: Red Apricorn

The Red Apricorn (Japanese: あかぼんぐり Red Bonguri) is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Level Ball. The Red Apricorn can be made into a Level Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce Aprijuice that boosts the Power Performance stat. Red Apricorns appeared in Going Apricorn!, where Kurt sent Ash, Misty, and Brock to harvest some Apricorns. However, the group was caught up in one of Team Rocket's pitfall traps before they could even reach the Apricorn tree. In Yikes, It's Yanma!, an Apricorn lottery was used to randomly decide which pairs of Gym Leaders from Kanto and Johto would face each other in an interregional exhibition tournament at Indigo Plateau. Blaine and Clair got a Red Apricorn each. In Generations II and IV, due to item names being limited to 12 characters (including spaces), the Red Apricorn is the only Apricorn to have its color fully spelled out in its English name. Burnt Berry trees in Generation II are replaced by Red Apricorn trees in Generation IV.

Title: Blue Apricorn

The Blue Apricorn (Japanese: あおぼんぐり Blue Bonguri), formatted Blu Apricorn prior to Generation VI, is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Lure Ball. The Blue Apricorn can be made into a Lure Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce Aprijuice that boosts the Skill Performance stat. Blue Apricorns appeared in Going Apricorn!, where Kurt sent Ash, Misty, and Brock to harvest some Apricorns. After many failed attempts at picking Apricorns, the group managed to pick two Blue Apricorns and a Black Apricorn, which Kurt later turned into a pair of Lure Balls and a Heavy Ball for them. In Yikes, It's Yanma!, an Apricorn lottery was used to randomly decide which pairs of Gym Leaders from Kanto and Johto would face each other in an interregional exhibition tournament at Indigo Plateau. Brock and Jasmine got a Blue Apricorn each. Ice Berry trees in Generation II are replaced by Blue Apricorn trees in Generation IV. The Ylw Apricorn and Blu Apricorn swapped index numbers between Generation IV and Generation V. They are the only items to do so between those two generations.

Title: Yellow Apricorn

The Yellow Apricorn (Japanese: きぼんぐり Yellow Bonguri), formatted Ylw Apricorn prior to Generation VI, is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Moon Ball. The Yellow Apricorn can be made into a Moon Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce Aprijuice that boosts the Stamina Performance stat. Yellow Apricorns first appeared in Going Apricorn!, where Kurt sent Ash, Misty, and Brock to harvest some Apricorns. However, the tree they found was infested by a group of Pineco, preventing them from picking up any Apricorns from it. In An Egg Scramble!, Yellow Apricorns were one of the things Khoury was selling at the Johto Festival. In Yikes, It's Yanma!, an Apricorn lottery was used to randomly decide which pairs of Gym Leaders from Kanto and Johto would face each other in an interregional exhibition tournament at Indigo Plateau. Lt. Surge and Morty got a Yellow Apricorn each. PRZCureBerry trees in Generation II are replaced by Yellow Apricorn trees in Generation IV. The Ylw Apricorn and Blu Apricorn swapped index numbers between Generation IV and Generation V. They are the only items to do so between those two generations.

Title: Green Apricorn

The Green Apricorn (Japanese: みどぼんぐり Green Bonguri), formatted Grn Apricorn prior to Generation VI, is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Friend Ball. The Green Apricorn can be made into a Friend Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce Aprijuice that boosts the Jump Performance stat. Green Apricorns appeared in Going Apricorn!, where Kurt sent Ash, Misty, and Brock to harvest some Apricorns. However, they were attacked by a group of Beedrill before they could pick any Apricorns from the tree. In Generation IV, Green Apricorns are by far the most common, appearing in eight places. Green Apricorn trees are generally found where Berry and MysteryBerry trees were in Generation II. In Japanese, the Green Apricorn is the only Apricorn for which the color in its name is abbreviated, using the abbreviated form みど mido rather than みどり midori.

Title: Pink Apricorn

The Pink Apricorn (Japanese: ももぼんぐり Pink Bonguri), formatted Pnk Apricorn prior to Generation VI, is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Love Ball. The Pink Apricorn can be made into a Love Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce Aprijuice that boosts the Speed Performance stat. Pink Apricorns appeared in Going Apricorn!, where Kurt sent Ash, Misty, and Brock to harvest some Apricorns. However, Maizie told the group that the Pink Apricorns they found weren't ready to be picked yet. PSNCureBerry trees in Generation II are replaced by Pink Apricorn trees in Generation IV.

Title: White Apricorn

The White Apricorn (Japanese: しろぼんぐり White Bonguri), formatted Wht Apricorn prior to Generation VI, is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Fast Ball. The White Apricorn can be made into a Fast Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce a flavorless Aprijuice that has no effect. White Apricorns appeared in Going Apricorn!, growing on a tree next to Kurt's house. He later gave Ash, Misty, and Brock a Fast Ball each, made from the White Apricorns picked from the aforementioned tree. In Yikes, It's Yanma!, an Apricorn lottery was used to randomly decide which pairs of Gym Leaders from Kanto and Johto would face each other in an interregional exhibition tournament at Indigo Plateau. Blue and Chuck got a White Apricorn each, pitting Blue against his former mentor.

Title: Black Apricorn

The Black Apricorn (Japanese: くろぼんぐり Black Bonguri), formatted Blk Apricorn prior to Generation VI, is a type of Apricorn introduced in Generation II. It can be used to make a Heavy Ball. The Black Apricorn can be made into a Heavy Ball by Kurt. If used in the Apriblender, it can produce Aprijuice that boosts the Power and Stamina Performance stats. Black Apricorns appeared in Going Apricorn!, where Kurt sent Ash, Misty, and Brock to harvest some Apricorns. After many failed attempts at picking Apricorns, the group managed to pick two Blue Apricorns and a Black Apricorn, which Kurt later turned into a pair of Lure Balls and a Heavy Ball for them. In Teddiursa's Picnic, Silver received a Heavy Ball from Kurt, crafted from a Black Apricorn he had given to the man earlier. Bitter Berry trees in Generation II are replaced by Black Apricorn trees in Generation IV.

Title: Dowsing Machine

The Dowsing Machine (Japanese: ダウジングマシン Dowsing Machine), referred to as the Itemfinder prior to Generation IV and as the Dowsing MCHN in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and the Generation V games, is a Key Item used to detect hidden items in the vicinity of the user. The way in which it detects items and provides feedback greatly varies between games. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, the role of locating hidden items is given to the Poké Ride Stoutland Search; in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the partner Pokémon and walking Pokémon take the role; and in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the rideable Ursaluna takes the role. In Pokémon Sword, Shield, Scarlet, and Violet, hidden items appear as sparkles in the overworld and do not require a specific locating method. The Dowsing Machine or Itemfinder can be used to detect hidden items. In Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow, when used when the player is not near a tile with a hidden item, text will appear stating that there are no items nearby: "Nope! ITEMFINDER isn't responding." If the Itemfinder is used while a tile with a hidden item is "on-screen", the item will give out four musical chimes, with text stating: "Yes! ITEMFINDER indicates there's an item nearby." In this generation, there are hidden coins in the Rocket Game Corner but the Itemfinder is unable to detect them. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, the Itemfinder works exactly as it did in Generation I. However, the Itemfinder is now classified as a Key Item and can be registered to the Select Button, allowing for easy access. Generation III marks the first time that the Itemfinder shows the direction and closeness of an item. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, the Itemfinder retains its previous mechanics from Generation I and II, requiring the hidden item to be "on-screen". However, the player will turn towards the direction of the hidden item after the chimes. The text when an item is near reads: "Huh? The ITEMFINDER's responding! There's an item buried around here!" When operating the Itemfinder under normal circumstances, text will appear stating that there is no item around which reads: "... ... ... ...Nope! There's no response." In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the Itemfinder receives an upgrade in the form of arrows that point towards the hidden item. The amount of arrows is based on how close the player is to the hidden item: Two arrows when the player is five to eight tiles away from the hidden item and four arrows when the player is within four tiles of the item. A musical chime will sound for each arrow that appears. The text used when operating the Itemfinder remains untouched from Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald. There are also some items which require the Itemfinder to be used to obtain them, rather than simply being easier to find using it. These items can only be detected by the Itemfinder if the player is standing on top of them, at which point the item will be automatically obtained. When the Itemfinder is used on these tiles, three stars will appear above the player. In total, there are six items that can be found using this method: The Soothe Bell in the Pokémon Tower after having rescued Mr. Fuji The Leftovers on Routes 12 and 16 after having fought against each route's respective Snorlax The Macho Brace in the Viridian Gym after Giovanni disappears The PP Max on Cape Brink, located on a single patch of ground surrounded by the lake The Sacred Ash on Navel Rock after having fought against Ho-Oh The text that appears when operating the Itemfinder over these spots is, as follows:"Oh! The ITEMFINDER's shaking wildly! There's an item buried underfoot!" In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen only, the Itemfinder can be used to detect the hidden coins in the Rocket Game Corner. The Dowsing Machines in Generation IV are slightly different to those of previous generations; they make use of the Nintendo DS's touch screen. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Pokétch's Dowsing Machine app replaces the functions of the Itemfinder. The layout of the Dowsing Machine app is that of a Cartesian plane with the player at the center. The app functions similar to a radar. When the touch screen is pressed, a circle will radiate from the point where the stylus hits and give out a "ping". When an item is nearby, a dilating radar circle will repeatedly appear. If the hidden item is within the radius of the circle, a dot will continuously blink while the radar circle repeatedly appears from the touched area. The app will reset its display upon the player performing any action. Plates behave differently to other hidden items. A circle will repeatedly appear as it would when indicating a nearby item. However, the grey dot indicating a hidden item is much smaller and only appears when the exact location of the Plate is touched. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the Dowsing MCHN is a Key Item. It uses the touch screen to locate items, with each grid tile representing a tile on the overworld. Unlike Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Dowsing Machine is a circular grid and can be operated while moving. There are four lines around the central grid that will move around when the touched area moves in relation to the hidden item and will light up when an item is near. When touching the grid under normal circumstances, the radius of dots and lines will be dark red and will let out a slow series of lower-frequency beeping. If the player moves near a hidden item while touching the grid, the dots and lines will gradually light up from red to white until the player touches the grid tile representing the tile containing the item, in which a blinking dot will appear; the beeping will also speed up and become higher in frequency in relation to the closeness of the area the player is touching. On the Pokéwalker, the Dowsing Machine is a mini game that can be used to find items. It costs 3 Watts to play. In this mini game, the player gets two guesses. If the player gets the first guess wrong, the game gives a message regarding whether the item is adjacent to the selected spot or not. In Black, White, Black 2, and White 2, it is once again known as the Dowsing MCHN. While it still appears on the touch screen when in use, it no longer takes any input from stylus touches and uses the screen for display purposes only. The bars and an arrow will face in the direction of a hidden item when the player is close. If the player is standing on a tile containing an item, the bars will cross and a square with four small arrows will appear. In Pokémon X and Y and Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Dowsing Machine works entirely differently from previous titles. In both pairs of games, the Dowsing Machine cannot be used underwater nor in most buildings, and the player cannot ride a Bicycle or Surf and use the Dowsing Machine simultaneously. In Pokémon X and Y, the Dowsing Machine takes the form of two rods that the player character holds in each hand that project the current forward. Once used, the rods project two streams of electric current in the air ahead as the character walks around. This current changes color depending on if the player is facing the direction of a hidden item and how close they are to it. The color cycles through blue, to green, to orange, with a musical chime playing when the color changes to let the player know they are getting close. When the player is directly in front of a hidden item, the electric currents cross each other and turn red, and a different musical chime plays. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Dowsing Machine is worn on the head with two electrodes protruding from the top. The electrodes change color as in X and Y as the player approaches a hidden item, and the electrodes turn red and vibrate when the player is directly in front of a hidden item. While wearing the Dowsing Machine, the player cannot sneak. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Dowsing Machine Pokétch app operates the same way as it did in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. The Item Finder card is available in Pokémon Trading Card Game and Pokémon Trading Card Game 2: The Invasion of Team GR!. The Dowsing Machine is an item that can be found in Withered Wasteland or crafted. Used in conjunction with a Pokémon with the Search specialty, it allows Ditto to search for hidden treasure around the area. Treasure found this way are Ancient Artifacts, CDs, Pokémon dolls or Mysterious Slates. To use the Dowsing Machine, Ditto must ask a Pokémon with the Search specialty to follow it. When held in Ditto's hands and activated, the Dowsing Machine emits a series of beeps that guide the Pokémon in the direction of the treasure. A series of three quick beeps indicate a treasure is close by, requiring Ditto to dig for it with Rock Smash. A single low beep indicates Ditto found every treasure in the area. Using the Dowsing Machine for long enough tires the Pokémon following Ditto; if this happens, Ditto must give them food to reenergize them. In A Ghost of a Chance, a Firebreather named Infernando tried to sell Ash and his friends an Itemfinder, referred to in the English dub as a "Treasure Detector". While the group refused the offer, the machine was soon after bought by James. He used it in an attempt to find treasures around Ecruteak City, although he ended up just finding bottle caps, which, while valuable to him, hardly impressed his teammates. In From Ghost to Ghost, the Treasure Detector led Team Rocket to a storage full of valuable antiques. However, while looting the place, the group was ambushed and hypnotized by a group of Gastly, scaring them away. In Sky High Gym Battle!, Team Rocket used a pair of golden dowsing rods, referred to as Itemfinders, in an attempt to lead them to a treasure supposedly buried underneath the Fortree Gym. In Try for the Family Stone!, James used a pair of dowsing rods in an attempt to find a Dusk Stone. In A Team-on-Team Tussle!, James used a modified Dowsing Machine to locate a Z-Crystal for Team Rocket. However, soon after leading the Rocket trio to a Darkinium Z, the machine was destroyed by the Totem Raticate guarding the Z-Crystal. In A Hollow Victreebel, an Itemfinder was one of the many items seen in Red's Bag. In What a Dragonite, he used the Itemfinder to locate the hidden HM for Surf on Route 19, coming across and being attacked by a wild Dragonite in the process. In Luring in a Lickilicky, Diamond used the Dowsing Machine app on his Pokétch to track down an item-stealing wild Lickilicky's hiding place. The following is a list of cards named either Item Finder or Dowsing Machine.

Title: Rage Candy Bar

The Rage Candy Bar (Japanese: いかりまんじゅう Rage Manjū), formatted as RageCandyBar as an item prior to Generation VI, is a type of medicine introduced in the Generation II games. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, it is a Key Item. It is a local specialty of Mahogany Town. In the Generation V games, the RageCandyBar can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $6000. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 20 HP, identical in behavior to a Potion. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, it may be exchanged for TM64 (Explosion) with an NPC on the Underground Path between Routes 5 and 6. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 20 HP. In Pokémon Black and White, if the player uses a RageCandyBar on one of the Darmanitan statues in the Desert Resort, the RageCandyBar is consumed and will prompt a battle with the awakened Darmanitan. Each Darmanitan will be at level 35 and have their Hidden Ability, Zen Mode. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. Rage Candy Bars appeared in An Egg Scramble!, where they were one of the items being sold by Khoury at the Johto Festival. Some of them were also seen amongst the food stolen by Team Rocket. In Raising Raichu, a banner advertising Rage Candy Bars could be seen on the roof of Mahogany Town's souvenir shop. In Out-Odding Oddish, while on his way to the Pokéathlon Dome, Gold was seen eating some Rage Candy Bars that he had recently purchased. He also threw one into Whitney's mouth, almost causing her to choke. Gold later gave a Rage Candy Bar to Bruno, who immediately fell in love with its delicious taste. In All About Arceus IX, Whitney, who was shown to have a crush on Bruno, was seen sending the Elite Four member a boxful of Rage Candy Bars, much to his pleasure. In To Make a Musical, Ryoku of the Seven Sages was seen holding a box of Rage Candy Bars in his hand before entering the Relic Castle to catch Volcarona for Ghetsis. A miniature of a Rage Candy Bar and packaging was included in the Johto goods set from the Pokémon World Market merchandise line that was made by Re-Ment and exclusive to the Pokémon Center. A Rage Candy Bar is also one of the items next to Togepi from the Pokémon Delicious Adventure figure series by The Pokémon Company International. In Generation II, the item's name is rendered Ragecandybar in all caps (like all items) and with no spaces. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, where it is only mentioned in dialogue and does not appear as an item, its name is rendered "Rage Candybar". In Pokémon Platinum, where it likewise is only mentioned in dialogue, its name is rendered as "Rage Candy Bar". In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and in all Generation V games, where it once again appears as an item, its name is rendered as "RageCandyBar", spelled in CamelCase due to the 12-character limit and capitalization of item names. From Generation VI onward, due to the increased character limit, its name is rendered as "Rage Candy Bar" with spaces. The Rage Candy Bar is based on the Japanese manjū, a type of bun stuffed with sweet filling. Manjū are sold in Japan as confectionery, and are often unique to certain places (much as the Rage Candy Bar is to Mahogany Town). The item was renamed as a candy bar in translation to be more familiar to English-speaking players; its in-Bag sprite depicts it in a small box, which could pass for a candy bar wrapper, preventing revelation of the translation discrepancy. According to Nob Ogasawara, under his alias of Douglas Dinsdale (also Doug Dinsdale), in a thread apparently archived from the Something Awful forums and available at the Let's Play Archive, the name "Rage Candy Bar" is a mistranslation that was decided by his handlers at Nintendo of America. He claims that the correct translation of いかりまんじゅう is "Rage Dumpling" or, given the twelve-character limit at the time, "Rage Bun". Though the item does not exist in the internal data of the Generation III and Sinnoh-based Generation IV games, it is mentioned in those games: In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, it is mentioned by an NPC in the town on Two Island, who claims that is the favorite delicacy of Bruno of the Elite Four, who left the island in disappointment when he discovered that the local shop was sold out of them. In Pokémon Platinum, it is supposed to be sold at Veilstone Department Store's basement, but the vendor selling them always says they're sold out of them. They are also said to be favored by Professor Rowan, who can occasionally be found in the Department Store basement, sulking about the fact that the store has run out of them. An NPC in the basement claims to be the one who has bought all the available Rage Candy Bars.

Title: Red Orb

The Red Orb (Japanese: べにいろのたま Crimson Orb) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is a legendary artifact that is associated with Groudon. Since Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire in Generation VI, it is a type of held item that causes Groudon to undergo Primal Reversion and become Primal Groudon upon entering battle. In Pokémon Sapphire, Team Aqua will steal the Red Orb from the summit of Mt. Pyre and use it to awaken Kyogre. However, as Team Aqua has the incorrect orb, they cannot use it to control the super-ancient Pokémon as they intended. After Kyogre is captured or defeated by the player, the player can return to the summit of Mt. Pyre to watch the Team Aqua Leader Archie return the orb to its proper place. Afterwards, the player returns the orb, and Archie departs. Team Aqua is not seen again after this. In Pokémon Emerald, the same events that happened in Ruby and Sapphire take place, only both Team Magma and Team Aqua appear and therefore both the Red Orb and the Blue Orb are stolen. However, the player does not obtain the Red Orb. In Pokémon SoulSilver, the Red Orb is given to the player by Mr. Pokémon after Red has been defeated and both the National Pokédex and a Kanto first partner Pokémon have been obtained from Professor Oak. After the orb has been received, the player can encounter Groudon at the Embedded Tower. In Pokémon Omega Ruby, Team Magma steals the Red Orb from the summit of Mt. Pyre and uses it to awaken Groudon. As Team Magma has the correct orb unlike in the Generation III games, they use it to awaken Groudon's true power by Primal Reversion. After leaving the Cave of Origin, Team Magma Leader Maxie gives the player the Red Orb that he had stolen. In Pokémon Alpha Sapphire, shortly after Team Aqua steals the Blue Orb from the summit of Mt. Pyre, the player is given the Red Orb and asked to reunite the pair. Later on at Sootopolis City, Wallace and Maxie explain that the Red Orb is capable of protecting the player within the Cave of Origin, reversing the process of Primal Reversion, and calming the awakened Kyogre. When the player reaches the depths of the cave, they equip the Aqua Suit and slot the Red Orb into it, creating a red barrier around themselves. In the Mega Dimension DLC of Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the Groudon found in Hyperspace Desolate Land holds a Red Orb, which activates during the second phase of Team MZ's battle against it. In Pokémon SoulSilver, it is required to encounter Groudon in the Embedded Tower. If held by a Groudon, allows it to undergo Primal Reversion and become Primal Groudon upon entering battle. Unaffected by item negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Groudon a Red Orb or remove a Red Orb from Groudon. Pokémon holding a Red Orb in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. The Red Orb was first mentioned in A Three Team Scheme!, where Shelly revealed that she was in possession of it. However, the dub incorrectly referred to the item as the Rose Orb in this episode. The Red Orb debuted in Gaining Groudon, where it was shown to be under the possession of Archie. He used it to control Kyogre after Shelly freed it from Team Magma's imprisonment, destroying their mobile sea base. In The Scuffle of Legends, after Team Rocket unwittingly released Kyogre into the ocean after a failed capture attempt, Archie used the Orb again to control it. However, as time went on, the Orb began to slowly take control of Archie. This caused him to send the Legendary Pokémon on a rampage, even threatening to drown even the members of his own team. The Orb's influence continued to grow until it absorbed into Archie's body, completely possessing him into insanity. After Groudon defeated Kyogre, the Red Orb extracted itself from Archie's body, and was destroyed shortly afterwards, along with the Blue Orb. The Red Orb (referred to as the "Red Jewel" in the Chuang Yi translation) first appeared in I'm Always Grumpig First Thing in the Morning II, being guarded by Tate and Liza on Mt. Pyre, along with the Blue Orb. Despite their best efforts to protect the Orbs, they were eventually stolen by Magma Admin Blaise. In The Beginning of the End with Kyogre & Groudon II, at the Seafloor Cavern, Groudon and Kyogre were awakened by Team Aqua and Team Magma, respectively, with Maxie taking control of them both by using the Orbs, intending to give Groudon the advantage. However, as controlling two Legendary Pokémon at the same time started to take too much of his mental capacity, he gave the Blue Orb to Tabitha so that the Magma Admin could control Kyogre on his behalf. While doing what he had been ordered to do, Tabitha was ambushed by Aqua Admin Amber, who used his Volbeat's Trick to steal the Blue Orb and deliver it to Archie. Later, Ruby and Sapphire faced Maxie and Archie in a battle, but had difficulty in reaching them. After Ruby's Castform, Fofo, finally managed to defeat the two evil team leaders with Weather Ball, Ruby tried to take the Orbs from Maxie and Archie's hands, only to find out that they had started to merge with their holders, making him unable to remove them. Realizing that should the Orbs be absorbed completely, they could never be retrieved, Ruby had his Delcatty, Kiki, use Covet on them, but failed. The Orbs then completely merged with the two men, causing the patterns of Groudon and Kyogre to appear on their arms, indicating that the villainous team leaders were now being controlled by the Legendary Pokémon, instead of the other way around. Maxie and Archie grabbed Ruby and Sapphire, and started to fly away, the Orbs' powers being called by Groudon and Kyogre. After the two Legendary Pokémon had started to battle at Sootopolis City, Ruby and Sapphire realized that with the Meteorite fragments given to them by Winona, they could stop the Orbs' influence over Maxie and Archie, due to them having the ability to stop the power of nature. Using a wild Absol's Magic Coat to reflect the meteorite's energy at the two evil team leaders, Ruby and Sapphire were able to turn them back to normal, but also caused a large burst of energy in the process, knocking the two Trainers unconscious. They later woke up at Mirage Island, where they then spent some time training with Juan, Tate, and Liza, preparing for the final battle. During the training, Ruby found out that the Orbs needed a human to control them, so that their powers could be maximized, and to be absorbed into their controllers. This led him to realize that the Orbs were now inside of him and Sapphire, having chosen them as their new controllers. Juan told Ruby and Sapphire that they needed to learn to control the Orbs, because if their minds weren't strong enough, they would wind up getting controlled by them, just like Maxie and Archie. During the training, Courtney showed up and offered her help for Ruby to stop the battle between Kyogre and Groudon, as everything had already gone beyond anything Team Magma or Team Aqua wanted, and there was no point in letting the entire Hoenn region get destroyed. At first, Ruby was reluctant to accept the offer, but eventually agreed in order to protect Sapphire from being possessed by the Blue Orb. After completing their training, Ruby and Sapphire left the Mirage Island and arrived near Sootopolis City. Having already extracted the Red Orb from his body and having Sapphire extract the Blue Orb from her body, Ruby locked her inside Wallace's aircar to protect her, before leaving with Courtney. They tried to stop the battle between the two Legendary Pokémon, but without success. However, as Norman arrived with Rayquaza, the third super-ancient Pokémon of Hoenn, Ruby was able to combine its power with the power of the Orbs to finally stop the fight and calm down Kyogre and Groudon, sending them to continue their slumber. Archie and Maxie then emerged from the Cave of Origin, stealing the Orbs back in order to restart the fight, but were stopped by Plusle and Minun. With the two men immobilized, Ruby sent out his sixth Pokémon—Celebi—to swipe the Orbs and destroy them, effectively putting the conflict to an end. Afterward, the gemstones that were formed from the shattered Orbs were picked up by Giovanni, who revealed that these gemstones were actually the Orbs' true forms: the Ruby and the Sapphire. In Beedrill Prepares, Blaise revealed he had secretly witnessed Giovanni claiming the shattered remains of the Orbs. Too intimidated by Giovanni's presence to try to take them back on the spot, be had instead decided to keep track of the Orbs with his Scanner. In Blastoise Transforms, Bill revealed that the Ruby and the Sapphire, which he had been keeping at the Sea Cottage ever since Team Rocket's defeat, had been regenerating over time back into their states as the Orbs, leading him to realize that the Orbs were manifestations of Hoenn's natural energy. The Orbs were later stolen by Archie and Maxie, who headed back to Hoenn with them. When Amber and Blaise manipulated Hoopa into summoning Groudon and Kyogre through its rings, the two super-ancient Pokémon started moving towards the Orbs. When the Legendary duo reached Maxie and Archie, the villainous team leaders let them fuse together with the Orbs, causing them both to undergo Primal Reversion. A set of Groudon, Primal Groudon and Red Orb metal charms has been released on February 21, 2015. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Blue Orb

The Blue Orb (Japanese: あいいろのたま Indigo Orb) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is a legendary artifact that is associated with Kyogre. Since Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire in Generation VI, it is a type of held item that causes Kyogre to undergo Primal Reversion and become Primal Kyogre upon entering battle. In Pokémon Ruby, Team Magma will steal the Blue Orb from the summit of Mt. Pyre and use it to awaken Groudon. However, as Team Magma has the incorrect orb, they cannot use it to control the super-ancient Pokémon as they intended. After Groudon is captured or defeated by the player, the player can return to the summit of Mt. Pyre to watch Team Magma Leader Maxie return the orb to its proper place. Afterwards, the player returns the orb, and Maxie departs. Team Magma is not seen again after this. In Pokémon Emerald, the same events that happened in Ruby and Sapphire take place, only both Team Magma and Team Aqua appear and therefore both the Blue Orb and the Red Orb are stolen. However, the player does not obtain the Blue Orb. In Pokémon HeartGold, the Blue Orb is given to the player by Mr. Pokémon after Red has been defeated and both the National Pokédex and a Kanto first partner Pokémon have been obtained from Professor Oak. After the orb has been received, the player can encounter Kyogre at the Embedded Tower. In Pokémon Alpha Sapphire, Team Aqua will steal the Blue Orb from the summit of Mt. Pyre and use it to awaken Kyogre. As Team Aqua has the correct orb unlike in the Generation III games, they use it to awaken Kyogre's true power by Primal Reversion. After leaving the Cave of Origin, Team Aqua Leader Archie gives the player the Blue Orb that he had stolen. In Pokémon Omega Ruby, shortly after Team Magma steals the Red Orb from the summit of Mt. Pyre, the player is given the Blue Orb and asked to reunite the pair. Later on at Sootopolis City, Wallace and Archie explain that the Blue Orb is capable of protecting the player within the Cave of Origin, reversing the process of Primal Reversion, and calming the awakened Groudon. When the player reaches the depths of the cave, they equip the Magma Suit and slot the Blue Orb into it, creating a blue barrier around themselves. In the Mega Dimension DLC of Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the Kyogre found in Hyperspace Primordial Sea holds a Blue Orb, which activates during the second phase of Team MZ's battle against it. In Pokémon HeartGold, it is required to encounter Kyogre in the Embedded Tower. If held by a Kyogre, allows it to undergo Primal Reversion and become Primal Kyogre upon entering battle. Unaffected by item negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Kyogre a Blue Orb or remove a Blue Orb from Kyogre. Pokémon holding a Blue Orb in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. The Blue Orb was first mentioned in A Three Team Scheme!, where Tabitha revealed that he was in possession of it. However, the dub incorrectly referred to the item as the Indigo Orb in this episode. The Blue Orb debuted in Gaining Groudon, where it was shown to be under the possession of Maxie to be used to control Groudon. While Shelly freed Kyogre from Team Magma's imprisonment, Pikachu managed to grab the Blue Orb during the chaos. The orb then unexpectedly fused with Pikachu, possessing him and giving him a massive power boost, but also causing him to go on sudden rampages. In The Scuffle of Legends, it was revealed that Groudon had deliberately caused the Blue Orb to fuse with Pikachu to get his aid in freeing itself from Team Aqua's submarine. After Groudon was freed, it proceeded to battle Kyogre. Once Kyogre was defeated, the Blue Orb extracted itself from Pikachu's body, and was destroyed shortly afterwards, along with the Red Orb. The Blue Orb appeared in The Cavern, where it was shown under Archie's possession at the Seafloor Cavern. Despite Shelly's attempt to convince him to stop his plan, Archie flung the Orb at the sleeping Kyogre, causing it to awaken and turn into Primal Kyogre. The Blue Orb (referred to as the "Blue Jewel" in the Chuang Yi translation) first appeared in I'm Always Grumpig First Thing in the Morning II, being guarded by Tate and Liza on Mt. Pyre, along with the Red Orb. Despite their best efforts to protect the Orbs, they were eventually stolen by Magma Admin Blaise. In The Beginning of the End with Kyogre & Groudon II, at the Seafloor Cavern, Groudon and Kyogre were awakened by Team Aqua and Team Magma, respectively, with Maxie taking control of them both by using the Orbs, intending to give Groudon the advantage. However, as controlling two Legendary Pokémon at the same time started to take too much of his mental capacity, he gave the Blue Orb to Tabitha so that the Magma Admin could control Kyogre on his behalf. While doing what he had been ordered to do, Tabitha was ambushed by Aqua Admin Amber, who used his Volbeat's Trick to steal the Blue Orb and deliver it to Archie. Later, Ruby and Sapphire faced Maxie and Archie in a battle, but had difficulty in reaching them. After Ruby's Castform, Fofo, finally managed to defeat the two evil team leaders with Weather Ball, Ruby tried to take the Orbs from Maxie and Archie's hands, only to find out that they had started to merge with their holders, making him unable to remove them. Realizing that should the Orbs be absorbed completely, they could never be retrieved, Ruby had his Delcatty, Kiki, use Covet on them, but failed. The Orbs then completely merged with the two men, causing the patterns of Groudon and Kyogre to appear on their arms, indicating that the villainous team leaders were now being controlled by the Legendary Pokémon, instead of the other way around. Maxie and Archie grabbed Ruby and Sapphire, and started to fly away, the Orbs' powers being called by Groudon and Kyogre. After the two Legendary Pokémon had started to battle at Sootopolis City, Ruby and Sapphire realized that with the Meteorite fragments given to them by Winona, they could stop the Orbs' influence over Maxie and Archie, due to them having the ability to stop the power of nature. Using a wild Absol's Magic Coat to reflect the meteorite's energy at the two evil team leaders, Ruby and Sapphire were able to turn them back to normal, but also caused a large burst of energy in the process, knocking the two Trainers unconscious. They later woke up at Mirage Island, where they then spent some time training with Juan, Tate, and Liza, preparing for the final battle. During the training, Ruby found out that the Orbs needed a human to control them, so that their powers could be maximized, and to be absorbed into their controllers. This led him to realize that the Orbs were now inside of him and Sapphire, having chosen them as their new controllers. Juan told Ruby and Sapphire that they needed to learn to control the Orbs, because if their minds weren't strong enough, they would wind up getting controlled by them, just like Maxie and Archie. During the training, Courtney showed up and offered her help for Ruby to stop the battle between Kyogre and Groudon, as everything had already gone beyond anything Team Magma or Team Aqua wanted, and there was no point in letting the entire Hoenn region get destroyed. At first, Ruby was reluctant to accept the offer, but eventually agreed in order to protect Sapphire from being possessed by the Blue Orb. After completing their training, Ruby and Sapphire left the Mirage Island and arrived near Sootopolis City. Having already extracted the Red Orb from his body and having Sapphire extract the Blue Orb from her body, Ruby locked her inside Wallace's aircar to protect her, before leaving with Courtney. They tried to stop the battle between the two Legendary Pokémon, but without success. However, as Norman arrived with Rayquaza, the third super-ancient Pokémon of Hoenn, Ruby was able to combine its power with the power of the Orbs to finally stop the fight and calm down Kyogre and Groudon, sending them to continue their slumber. Archie and Maxie then emerged from the Cave of Origin, stealing the Orbs back in order to restart the fight, but were stopped by Plusle and Minun. With the two men immobilized, Ruby sent out his sixth Pokémon—Celebi—to swipe the Orbs and destroy them, effectively putting the conflict to an end. Afterward, the gemstones that were formed from the shattered Orbs were picked up by Giovanni, who revealed that these gemstones were actually the Orbs' true forms: the Ruby and the Sapphire. In Facing Gulpin Is Hard to Swallow, it was revealed that Spenser had also once touched the Blue Orb, causing him to start having nightmares about Kyogre, as well as allowing him to recognize people who had done the same—namely Sapphire and Guile Hideout—based on a signature dim glow that they had in their eyes. In Beedrill Prepares, Blaise revealed he had secretly witnessed Giovanni claiming the shattered remains of the Orbs. Too intimidated by Giovanni's presence to try to take them back on the spot, be had instead decided to keep track of the Orbs with his Scanner. In Blastoise Transforms, Bill revealed that the Ruby and the Sapphire, which he had been keeping at the Sea Cottage ever since Team Rocket's defeat, had been regenerating over time back into their states as the Orbs, leading him to realize that the Orbs were manifestations of Hoenn's natural energy. The Orbs were later stolen by Archie and Maxie, who headed back to Hoenn with them. When Amber and Blaise manipulated Hoopa into summoning Groudon and Kyogre through its rings, the two super-ancient Pokémon started moving towards the Orbs. When the Legendary duo reached Maxie and Archie, the villainous team leaders let them fuse together with the Orbs, causing them both to undergo Primal Reversion. A set of Kyogre, Primal Kyogre and Blue Orb metal charms has been released on February 21, 2015. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Jade Orb

The Jade Orb (Japanese: もえぎいろのたま Verdant Orb) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. It is a legendary artifact that is associated with Rayquaza. The Jade Orb is required to encounter Rayquaza in the Embedded Tower. While the Jade Orb has not appeared in the Pokémon Adventures manga, Norman revealed in It All Ends Now V that the reason why the Pokémon Association once captured and studied Rayquaza was in an attempt to create an artificial "Green Orb" (Japanese: 翠色の宝珠 Green Orb) in order to control it, but they failed to complete it. As shown in The Final Battle IV, the core of the unfinished Green Orb was eventually thrown away by Professor Yanase and subsequently found by Emerald, who started wearing it as a part of his accessories. In The Final Battle IX, Ruby theorized that the core's power to control Pokémon had helped Emerald in calming down the Pokémon that had been rampaging due to Guile Hideout's influence. In PS611, Emerald was revealed to have given the Green Orb core to Norman, who took it to the research facility where Rayquaza was held in captivity and used a machine to increase its purity. The process changed the core to a jade color and increased its strength. Despite the increase in strength, Norman was unable to utilize the core to control Rayquaza. When Ruby used the core, he was able to slightly control Rayquaza enough to influence its movements. When Sapphire used the core, she was able to peer into Rayquaza's mind, allowing her to hear its thoughts. When Ruby and Sapphire later prepared to ride Rayquaza to space in order to destroy Grand Meteor Delta, the Green Orb core was embedded in the Aqua Suit worn by Sapphire. After obtaining the Jade Orb, the player cannot take a picture with Chuck, even if he is not in the Fighting Dojo.

Title: Enigma Stone

The Enigma Stone (Japanese: なぞのすいしょう Enigmatic Crystal) is a Key event item obtainable via Wi-Fi in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. It is the first event item for Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, and the only one that was officially distributed. The Enigma Stone is very similar to the Eon Ticket. Like the Generation III event item, the Stone will trigger the appearance of the Eon Pokémon not found roaming in the version being played. In HeartGold, this is Latios; in SoulSilver, this is Latias. Although the Enigma Stone may be downloaded by anyone who has received the Pokédex, the player must have entered the Hall of Fame and received the National Pokédex before the event can be triggered. If it is taken to the Pewter Museum of Science, traveling Pokémon Champion Steven Stone will have a researcher examine it, who discovers that it is really the Soul Dew. After this brief encounter, depending on the game version, one of the twin Eon Pokémon will attack the player, presenting the opportunity for it to be captured. It will keep returning to the same spot until captured. This item was available via Wi-Fi to the Japanese versions of the games from November 27, 2009 to January 11, 2010 and the North American and PAL versions from July 31, 2010 to August 27, 2010. In Japan it was revealed along with the event for HeartGold and SoulSilver, the 10th Anniversary Mew.

Title: Unown Report

The Unown Report (Japanese: アンノーンノート Unknown Notebook) is a Key Item in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. It replaces the Unown Mode of the Pokédex in the Generation II games. The Unown Report records the different forms of Unown caught by the player. As more Unown forms are captured, the researchers learn more about the Unown and the history of the ruins. Whenever the researchers make discoveries, the player will make note of them in the Report. After capturing the 26 alphabetical Unown forms, opening the hidden rooms in each of the four stone panel chambers, and completing Page 7 of the Unown Report, the ! and ? forms start to appear in the ruins' main chamber and must be caught to complete the research. Page 5 is unlocked when the player catches an Unown. Page 6 is unlocked when enough Unown are caught to fill Page 2 of the report. This also sorts the caught Unown in alphabetical order. Page 7 is unlocked when all 26 alphabetical Unown forms are caught. Page 8 is unlocked when all four hidden rooms are opened, and the player observes the entrance room's inscription. Page 9 is unlocked when the ! and ? forms of Unown are caught. "Found a strange puzzle in the ruins. Solved it, and suddenly a hole opened up in the ground and I dropped into the room below! Should have known that ancient ruins would have surprising tricks like that. There was a stone statue where I fell. The place might have been a reception hall. Then, suddenly, the Unown appeared. That puzzle was like a key somehow. It woke the Unown up from their sleep. These ruins have become difficult." "If you turn on the radio in the ruins, you can receive mysterious radio waves! It's proof that the Unown communicate with each other using radio waves! There are as many Unown as there are letters in the alphabet. Right now, we're confirming the existence of 26 kinds of Unown. Do you think you can find all 26 of them?" "It seems that individually they don't make much sense, but when the various Unown are arranged in order, they begin to make sense. In nature, they seem to be scattered around randomly, but the truth is they're arranged in a very specific order. In this report, the scattered Unown were sorted and put into order by the research-center staff. That makes the Unown much easier to understand." "Scratched on the floor of the ruins are Unown letters. Finding the room feels like a huge discovery! The Researchers were very excited and said they were going to go check it out. There aren't just 26 different kinds of Unown, Two more have been discovered! But that begs the question of where those other two kinds are hiding..." "The characters found scratched on the floor in the small room are transcribed here in this report. The Researchers were saying they'll need to examine the ruins again, but...?" "In the past, it seems that Unown lived with relatives of humans in these ruins. In the lower levels of these ruins is a Pokémon statue. We've come to understand that it was those relatives who made that statue. The Unown are very timid creatures, so they don't go outside the ruins. Even if a bunch of people gathered near the ruins, it is said that the ones who wished for Unown and humans to again coexist have all left." The only Unown whose associated word was changed was Unown A; the word was the adjective "Angry" in Unown Mode and in the Japanese versions. It was changed to the verb "Anger" in non-Japanese versions to match this Unown's Pokémon Power in its first TCG card.

Title: Blue Card

The Blue Card (Japanese: ブルーカード Blue Card) is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. The Blue Card allows the player to answer daily questions on Buena's show, Buena's Password, to earn points on their Blue Card. The player earns 1 point whenever they answer a question correctly. The player can redeem their Blue Points at the Goldenrod Radio Tower for prizes, spending them like currency. Players cannot have more than 30 points on the card at any time. If the player has 30 points on their Blue Card, they can register Buena's number into their Pokégear. The player can receive prizes at the Goldenrod Radio Tower whenever they reach specific point totals. Players cannot have more than 30 points on the card at any time, but once they reach 30 points they can exchange their Blue Card for an empty one. Once the player has hit 30 points, they can register Buena's number into their Pokégear. In Korean Gold and Silver, Teru-sama ID 0x74 is labeled "Blue Card" to match the name of the actual Blue Card item ID in Pokémon Crystal and Pokémon Stadium 2.

Title: Slowpoke Tail

This article is about the valuable item. For the ingredient related to this item, see Smoke-Poke Tail. The Slowpoke Tail (Japanese: おいしいシッポ Delicious Tail), formatted SlowpokeTail prior to Generation VI, is a valuable item exclusive to the Generation II games. They are the severed tails of Slowpoke. Although the item exists in the game data of most core series games from Generation IV onward, and is otherwise referenced in many other games, it can only be obtained in the Generation II games. The Slowpoke Tail serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, a man near the Pokémon Center on Route 32 offers to sell the player a Slowpoke Tail for $1,000,000; however, it cannot be purchased, as this is more money than the player can carry in these games. Later, the player discovers Team Rocket harvesting Slowpoke Tails from Slowpoke in the Slowpoke Well in Azalea Town. After Team Rocket is defeated, the man in Route 32 disappears. In Pokémon X and Y, Slowpoke Tail is one of the dishes served by Restaurant Le Yeah in Lumiose City. In the Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon Special Demo Version, a Police Officer at the Hau'oli City Marina stakes out what he believes is a Slowpoke Tail deal; instead, the meeting is simply two people fawning over each other's Slowpoke. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, Peppered Slowpoke Tail on Salad, Slowpoke Tail Quiche, and Slowpoke Tail Sandwiches are listed on a shelf in the Thrifty Megamart, although the player cannot purchase any of them. Additionally, Slowpoke's Pokédex entry in Pokémon Sun states that its tail often breaks off without harming the Slowpoke, and that it grows back later, whereas its Pokémon Moon Pokédex entry states that dried Slowpoke tails are often used in Alolan home-cooked stews. In Pokémon GO, Sierra appears to have a Slowpoke Tail hanging off the back corner of her bag. Slowpoke Tail can be used as an ingredient in cooking, with a base Strength of 342. It can be used to cook the following recipes: Slowpoke Tail can be gathered by the player's helper Pokémon. When Tim Goodman and Rachel Myers find Professor Gordon's Slowpoke stuck in some ice, they pulled it out, but its tail came off as it was stuck to the ice. Pikachu picked it up and asked Slowpoke if it was okay, only to see that its tail already grew back. Slowpoke lets Pikachu keep the dismembered tail. Later, Tim and Pikachu encountered an angry and hungry Galarian Darmanitan. Pikachu used Slowpoke's tail as a snack to lure Darmanitan, who accidentally put Pikachu in its mouth with the tail. After Tim pulled Pikachu out, Darmanitan ate the Slowpoke tail and calmed down. In Ursaring Major, Team Rocket had cut off the tails of a herd of Slowpoke by the Slowpoke Well near Azalea Town, planning to sell them for profit. However, they were stopped by Silver and his Ursaring before they could do so. A pair of Team Skull Grunts sold grilled Slowpoke Tails at the Iki Town festival, with one of said Tails appearing in The Party Crasher and Guzma the Destroyer. The first time that humans eating Pokémon is mentioned explicitly in the games is when a Team Rocket Grunt mentions the Slowpoke Tail's value as a delicacy.

Title: Clear Bell

The Clear Bell (Japanese: とうめいなスズ Transparent Suzu) is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. Along with the Rainbow Feather, it is one of the legendary artifacts associated with Ho-Oh and Suicune. In Pokémon Crystal, it allows the player to meet Suicune on the first floor of the Tin Tower, where, unlike its brethren, it will not flee, and the player must defeat or capture it. In Pokémon HeartGold, it is the type of bell that are installed on Ecruteak City's Bell Tower. The item combines with the power of the Rainbow Wing and the dance of the Kimono Girls to summon Ho-Oh to the Bell Tower. While Suicune takes a particular interest in the player once more, it is not involved with the Clear Bell whatsoever. In Pokémon SoulSilver, its purpose is replaced by the Tidal Bell. Much like how the Tidal Bell is not required in HeartGold to encounter Lugia, with the Pokémon appearing with just the Silver Wing obtained in Pewter City, the Clear Bell is not required in SoulSilver to encounter Ho-Oh. In Pokémon Omega Ruby, the Clear Bell is given to the player by Captain Stern in exchange for the Scanner, and is required to encounter Ho-Oh on Sea Mauville. In Pokémon Pokopia, Clear Bells can be crafted using five Rainbow Feathers and five ingots of Rare Pokémetal. The player learns the recipe for the Clear Bell after befriending Raikou, Entei, and Suicune. Ringing the Clear Bell when Ho-Oh is currently flying overhead will cause it to come down to the player, allowing the player to befriend Ho-Oh. The Clear Bells, referred to as "Crystal Bells" in Pokémon the Series: Gold and Silver, appeared in For Ho-Oh the Bells Toll!. Team Rocket stole some of the bells from the Tin Tower, intending to summon Ho-Oh with them, not realizing that the bells didn't work that way. However, Jessie accidentally breaking one of the bells angered the Bug Pokémon of the area, who proceeded to ensnare them in webbing, apprehending them long before Morty, Ash, Misty, Brock, and Eusine caught up to them. The Crystal Bells are unable to be rung by human hands alone, as Jessie proved, though they will, according to legend, ring on their own when Ho-Oh approaches. The Clear Bell, called the "Invisible Bell" in the Chuang Yi translation, was given to the Team Rocket Elite Trio by the Masked Man for their Suicune capture operation, its power allowing its holder to bypass the crystal walls that Suicune can create to defend itself. After their attempt to capture Suicune had been foiled by Crystal and Eusine, Eusine took the Clear Bell from the trio in Suddenly Suicune (Part 2). In the next chapter, he used it to bypass the crystal wall Suicune had set up at the Tin Tower and rescue Crystal from inside it. In The Last Battle V, Misty's attempt to use Suicune's crystal wall to trap the Masked Man with her ended in failure, resulting in only her getting trapped as the Masked Man's Gastly's Curse weakened Suicune so that it became unable to bring the wall down. Fortunately, Eusine soon appeared, using his Clear Bell to save Misty. Despite him possessing the Clear Bell, however, Suicune chose Crystal as its new partner afterwards, much to Eusine's dismay. Though the Japanese and English names of the item imply that the bells should at least be somewhat transparent, the HeartGold and SoulSilver sprite of the item is not clear at all, nor even blue, the color of Crystal's cartridge, except when it is being used to summon Ho-Oh, when it shines brightly with a bluish-white glow as if becoming clear. In Korean Gold and Silver, Teru-sama ID 0x46 is labeled 크리스탈방울 Clear Bell to match the name of the actual Clear Bell item ID in Pokémon Crystal and Pokémon Stadium 2, despite those games not being released in Korean.

Title: Card Key

For the key used to open locked doors at Silph Co., see Card Key (Kanto) For the key used to open the locked shutter at the Goldenrod Radio Tower, see Card Key (Johto) For the key used to open the east wing of the Shadow PKMN Lab, see Card Key (Orre)

Title: Basement Key

For the key used to open locked doors in the Goldenrod Tunnel, see Basement Key (Johto) For the key used to open the door to New Mauville, see Basement Key (Hoenn)

Title: Red Scale

The Red Scale (Japanese: あかいウロコ Red Scale) is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. It is a scale from the Red Gyarados. The Red Scale can be given to Mr. Pokémon in exchange for an Exp. Share.

Title: Lost Item

The Lost Item (Japanese: おとしもの Lost Item) is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. It is a Poké Doll belonging to Copycat. In the game dialogue, this is also known as a Clefairy Poké Doll (Japanese: ピッピにんぎょう Pippi Doll). This item is referred to as a Clefairy doll. In later generations where this is an unused item, it was changed into a Mime Jr. doll (in both English and Japanese). In the English dialogue from both Generation II and Generation IV, Copycat calls this item a "Clefairy Poké Doll". In Pokémon Gold and Silver: Official Nintendo Player's Guide and Pokémon Crystal: Official Nintendo Player's Guide: This is named Clefairy Doll on the list of items (page 109 of the Gold and Silver guide; page 151 of the Crystal guide). This is named both Clefairy Doll and Poké Doll within the game walkthrough (page 65 of the Gold and Silver guide; page 64 of the Crystal guide). In the Japanese dialogue from both Generation II and Generation IV, Copycat calls this item a ピッピにんぎょう (Pippi Doll), which is the same name as the Poké Doll item in this language. According to the Lost Item's Japanese description, this is a: ピッピにんぎょう (Pippi Doll; Clefairy Doll) in Generation II. ピッピの にんぎょう (Doll of Pippi; Doll of Clefairy) in Generation IV. マネネの 人形(にんぎょう) (Doll of Manene; Doll of Mime Jr.) from Generation V onwards. When returned to Copycat, she will give the player a Pass for the Magnet Train. For an unknown reason, the Lost Item's sprite and description from Generation V onward depict a Mime Jr., despite it not being used since Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver.

Title: Pass

This article is about the Pass used for boarding the Magnet Train. For other uses, see Pass (disambiguation). The Pass (Japanese: ていきけん Season Pass in Generation II; リニアパス Linear Pass from Generation IV onwards) is a Key Item required to board the Magnet Train between Goldenrod City in Johto and Saffron City in Kanto. It was introduced in Generation II. In Generation II only, the Japanese name of the Pass refers to a type of train ticket that allows unlimited travel between two stations for a limited period, such as a week or a month. From Generation IV onwards, the Japanese name refers to the Magnet Train (known as リニア Linear). In the game dialogue, this item is also known as Magnet Train Pass, Pass for the Magnet Train, or (lowercase) rail Pass. In some early guidebooks, this was also referred to as Railway Pass. If the Pass is in the Bag and the Machine Part has been delivered to the Power Plant, the player has unlimited access to ride the Magnet Train between Saffron City and Goldenrod City. This item cannot be used directly from the Bag. Instead, the player must interact with the attendant in either train station.

Title: Machine Part

If you were looking for the item in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, see Machine Part (Orre). The Machine Part (Japanese: きかいのぶひん Machine Part) is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, the Machine Part allows the staff of the Power Plant to resume operations, restoring function to the Magnet Train and Lavender Radio Tower. The Power Plant manager will also give the player a TM07 (Zap Cannon)/TM57 (Charge Beam) as a thanks for returning it. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, the Machine Part does not show up on the Dowsing MCHN despite being a hidden item.

Title: Mystery Egg

The Mystery Egg (Japanese: ふしぎなタマゴ Mystery Egg) is a Key Item introduced in Generation II. It is an unusual egg found by the Day-Care Couple and given to Mr. Pokémon. Mr. Pokémon asks the player to bring the Mystery Egg to Professor Elm for study, due to his expertise on Pokémon Evolution. After the player defeats Falkner and obtains the Zephyr Badge, Elm's aide will return the egg to the player, revealing that it is in fact a Pokémon Egg. The Egg, if the player chooses to keep it in their party, will eventually hatch into a Togepi. If the player shows the hatched Togepi to Professor Elm, he will give the player an Everstone. When this item is received from Mr. Pokémon, the last Pokémon Center used is set to Cherrygrove City. Therefore, if the player blacks out or uses Teleport outside of battle (even though this move is not yet legitimately available), they will go to this Pokémon Center instead of going directly to their house and skipping the first battle against the rival.

Title: Tidal Bell

Tidal Bell (Japanese: うみなりのスズ Tide Suzu) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. Along with the Silver Feather, it is one of the legendary artifacts associated with Lugia. In Pokémon SoulSilver, it is the type of bell that are installed on Ecruteak City's Bell Tower. The item combines with the power of the Silver Wing and the dance of the Kimono Girls to summon Lugia to the Whirl Islands. In Pokémon Alpha Sapphire, the Tidal Bell is given to the player by Captain Stern in exchange for the Scanner, and is required to encounter Lugia on Sea Mauville. In Pokémon Pokopia, Tidal Bells can be crafted using five Silver Feathers and five ingots of Rare Pokémetal. The player learns the recipe for the Tidal Bell after befriending Articuno, Zapdos, and Moltres. Ringing the Tidal Bell when Lugia is currently flying overhead will cause it to come down to the player, allowing the player to befriend Lugia.

Title: Lock Capsule

The Lock Capsule (Japanese: ロックカプセル Lock Capsule) is an unobtainable Key Item that was first included in the game data of Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver. It is not legitimately available in any game. The Lock Capsule's menu sprite differs between Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and Pokémon Black and White. In Pokémon Black and White, it would have been the only way to obtain TM95 (Snarl), but was never released. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, TM95 can be obtained in regular gameplay. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, it has no use. If received via Mystery Gift, the menu option "VIEW LOCK CAPSULE CARD" will appear in the Mystery Gift menu, displaying "The Lock Capsule is held in the strictest safekeeping." as Wonder Card text. It can then be transferred to Pokémon Black and White by using the Relocator, which will change the Wonder Card text to "The Lock Capsule was delivered safely!". In Pokémon Black and White, it can be opened by Mr. Lock in Castelia City, allowing the player to retrieve the exclusive TM95 (Snarl) from inside it. The Lock Capsule also contains a letter read by Mr. Lock upon opening it: "I entrust the Technical Machine in the Lock Capsule to a trustworthy Trainer in the Unova region. Don't allow it to fall into the hands of villains like Team Rocket."

Title: Photo Album

For the option in the PC in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, see PC → Photo Album. For the option in the menu in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, see Alola Photo Club. For the unobtainable Key Item, see List of unobtainable items → Photo Album.

Title: Orange Mail

The Orange Mail (Japanese: オレンジメール Orange Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Harbor Mail

The Harbor Mail (Japanese: ハーバーメール Harbor Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, the player can exchange a piece of Harbor Mail for the Coin Case in Mauville City.

Title: Glitter Mail

The Glitter Mail (Japanese: キラキラメール Glitter Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief. The Glitter Mail is one of the 6 types of Mail featured in a Pokémon Center-exclusive letter set released in November 2021.

Title: Mech Mail

The Mech Mail (Japanese: メカニカルメール Mechanical Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Wood Mail

The Wood Mail (Japanese: ウッディメール Woody Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Wave Mail

The Wave Mail (Japanese: クロスメール Cross Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Bead Mail

The Bead Mail (Japanese: トレジャーメール Treasure Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Shadow Mail

The Shadow Mail (Japanese: シャドーメール Shadow Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Tropic Mail

The Tropic Mail (Japanese: トロピカルメール Tropical Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief. In The Beginning of the End with Kyogre & Groudon VI, Ruby left Wallace a Tropic Mail, informing his teacher of his decision to fight against Team Magma. The Tropic Mail is one of the 6 types of Mail featured in a Pokémon Center-exclusive letter set released in November 2021.

Title: Dream Mail

The Dream Mail (Japanese: ドリームメール Dream Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Fab Mail

The Fab Mail (Japanese: ミラクルメール Miracle Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Retro Mail

The Retro Mail (Japanese: レトロメール Retro Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation III games. It contains a message with up to nine words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system, structured as four rows of two slots and a fifth row with one slot. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The player can unlock additional phrases from the Hipster in Mauville City. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC, in the Pokémon Day Care, traded to Pokémon Colosseum or XD: Gale of Darkness, or transferred to Pokémon Box: Ruby & Sapphire or into Generation IV games through the Pal Park. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet or Thief.

Title: Mach Bike

The Mach Bike (Japanese: マッハじてんしゃ Mach Bike) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the bicycles the player can ride in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire. It is the counterpart to the Acro Bike. This item is used to toggle between riding the Mach Bike or walking again. It is not possible to start riding the Mach Bike if the player is indoors or surfing. If the player goes indoors or starts surfing, they will leave the Mach Bike automatically. The Running Shoes are unusable as long as the player is riding the Mach Bike. It is not possible to dismount the bike while on any Cycling Road. Riding the Mach Bike replaces the overworld music with the Cycling theme. Once the player resumes walking, the regular overworld music starts again. Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire The Mach Bike allows players to move a lot faster than regular Bicycles and the Acro Bike (15 steps per second in Generation III, 16 steps per second in Generation VI). If the player is already riding the Mach Bike, then using this item causes the player to resume walking. It can move fast enough to ride over cracked tiles without falling through (which appear in Generation III in Granite Cave, the Sky Pillar, and Mirage Tower), or ride straight up muddy slopes if the player has enough speed. If the player collides with something, then the speed resets. Riding the Mach Bike or Acro Bike is required on the Seaside Cycling Road. On the Seaside Cycling Road, a player's time and number of collisions while riding this Bicycle from the northern entrance to the southern exit are timed and recorded. This is part of the data sent over to other players via record mixing. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the Mach Bike (as well as the Acro Bike) is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable. Using this item causes the player to start riding the regular Bicycle. When the player attempts to enter the Route 17 Cycling Road, the game specifically checks for the event flag indicating that the player has received the Bicycle from the Miracle Cycle shop in Cerulean City. As a result, if the player has the Mach Bike but has never received the regular Bicycle from Miracle Cycle, the player will still be unable to enter the Cycling Road. In Dreadful Dealing with Dusclops, Wally used a Mach Bike left for him by Norman at the base of the Sky Pillar to quickly ride over the cracked floors in order to scale up the tower. When Wally reached the 49th floor, he encountered a wild Dusclops, which created a black hole, sucking in the Mach Bike before being defeated by Wally's Grovyle. In Generation IV, in Rad Rickshaw's Cycle Shop, there are advertisements on the shelves for the Mach and Acro Bikes. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the bells on the different bikes have notably different sounds. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Bike Maniac in Cerulean City has some Mach Bikes on display at his home.

Title: Acro Bike

The Acro Bike (Japanese: ダートじてんしゃ Dirt Bike) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the bicycles the player can ride in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire. It is the counterpart to the Mach Bike. This item is used to toggle between riding the Acro Bike or walking again. It is not possible to start riding the Acro Bike if the player is indoors or surfing. If the player goes indoors or starts surfing, they will leave the Acro Bike automatically. The Running Shoes are unusable as long as the player is riding the Acro Bike. It is not possible to dismount the bike while on any Cycling Road. Riding the Acro Bike replaces the overworld music with the Cycling theme. Once the player resumes walking, the regular overworld music starts again. Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire The Acro Bike travels at the same speed as regular bicycles (9.95 steps per second in Generation III, 10.67 steps per second in Generation VI), but it also allows players to perform tricks, such as wheelies and bunny hops, which let players reach special areas. If the player is already riding the Acro Bike, then using this item causes the player to resume walking. It can also be used for traveling on white rails found on Route 119 and in the Hoenn Safari Zone. Bunny hopping up and down on an Acro Bike in tall grass can cause wild Pokémon to appear, but does not count as steps towards the Safari Game or Repel. Riding the Acro Bike or Mach Bike is required on the Seaside Cycling Road. Unlike the Mach Bike, if the player rides on Seaside Cycling Road with the Acro Bike, their time won't be recorded, due to the bicycle being "easy to turn" in comparison. Hold B Button (less than 2 seconds): standing wheelie Hold B, then +Control Pad: moving wheelie or bunny hop Press B and +Control Pad direction (perpendicular to direction of travel) simultaneously: sideways hop Press B and +Control Pad direction (opposite to direction of travel) simultaneously: hops and reverses direction In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the Acro Bike (as well as the Mach Bike) is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable. Using this item causes the player to start riding the regular Bicycle. When the player attempts to enter the Route 17 Cycling Road, the game specifically checks for the event flag indicating that the player has received the Bicycle from the Miracle Cycle shop in Cerulean City. As a result, if the player has the Acro Bike but has never received the regular Bicycle from Miracle Cycle, the player will still be unable to enter the Cycling Road. The Bicycle was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era). First released in the Primal Clash expansion, it was later featured in the Japanese The Best of XY collection. When played, the Arco Bike allows the player to look at the top two cards in their deck. The player then chooses one of those cards and puts it in their hand. The remaining card is discarded. In Generation IV, in Rad Rickshaw's Cycle Shop, there are advertisements on the shelves for the Mach and Acro Bikes. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the bells on the different bikes have notably different sounds. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Bike Maniac in Cerulean City has some Acro Bikes on display at his home.

Title: Wailmer Pail

The Wailmer Pail (Japanese: ホエルコじょうろ Hoeruko Watering Can) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is a watering can fashioned after a Wailmer. The Wailmer Pail allows the player to water planted Berries. If watering is done correctly, the resulting Berry trees will have higher amounts of Berries to pick and store. In Pokémon Emerald only, the Wailmer Pail also allows the player to water a fake tree in the Battle Frontier, revealing it to be a wild Sudowoodo that attacks the player. Once the player reaches friendship level 100 with May in the Trainer Lodge, they can purchase a replica of a Wailmer Pail in the Lodge Exchange to display in the Trainer Lodge. A Wailmer Pail appeared in The Lotad Lowdown, where it was used by Rita to water her Berries in the Pretty Petal flower shop. Courtney was shown using a Wailmer Pail in It All Ends Now VIII. The Wailmer Pail has been featured in various officially licensed figures and goods. The Wailmer Pail is the only watering can whose design is based on a Pokémon that was also introduced in the same generation as the watering can. A Wailmer Pail can be seen in the player's house in Pokémon Sun and Moon.

Title: Soot Sack

The Soot Sack (Japanese: はいぶくろ Ash Sack) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. The Soot Sack allows the player to collect volcanic ash on Route 113 or Jagged Pass. It has a maximum capacity of 9,999 steps' worth of ash in Generation III. In Tanks, but No Tanks, Anorith and Lileep, during Ruby's pursuit of getting Wallace to approve him as his disciple, Ruby grabbed a set of Soot Sacks from Wallace's car and subsequently ran around to collect volcanic ash. Wallace later took the material and traded it in for a flute.

Title: Letter

This article is about the letter addressed to Steven. For other letters in the games, see Letter (disambiguation). The Letter (Japanese: ダイゴへのてがみ Letter to Daigo) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is a letter from Mr. Stone addressed to his son, Steven. The Letter is given to Steven inside Granite Cave to progress the storyline. After receiving the Letter, Steven will give the player a TM47/TM51 (Steel Wing) for their troubles. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, reporting the successful delivery to Mr. Stone also earns the player an Exp. Share. In Mowing Down Ludicolo, Sapphire received the Letter from Mr. Stone, who asked her to deliver it to Steven. In A Royal Rumble with Regirock, Regice and Registeel I, Sapphire encountered Steven and gave the Letter to him, successfully completing her delivery mission. Inside the Letter was a piece of paper with the Braille that was missing from the slab describing the legendary giants. By translating it, Steven was able to figure out that the missing components for awakening Regirock, Regice, and Registeel were Wailord and Relicanth.

Title: Eon Ticket

If you were looking for the song, see Eon Ticket (song). The Eon Ticket (Japanese: むげんのチケット Infinite Ticket) is an event-exclusive Key Item in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire. It cannot be obtained normally in-game; instead, it must be downloaded at a promotional event or using the Eon Ticket e-Card. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, after the player receives the Eon Ticket from Norman and has entered the Hall of Fame, the first time they attempt to board the S.S. Tidal from the Lilycove City Harbor, a Sailor will replace the usual guide and offer to take the player to Southern Island. The Eon Pokémon that did not roam Hoenn will appear on Southern Island: Latias in Pokémon Ruby, Latios in Pokémon Sapphire, and depending on the player's choice in Pokémon Emerald. The player battles the Legendary Pokémon in a standard stationary encounter; it does not appear as a roaming Pokémon and will not attempt to flee. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the player cannot return to Southern Island after battling this Pokémon, regardless of the outcome of the battle. In Pokémon Emerald, the player can freely return to the island regardless of the battle's outcome. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, after the player receives the Eon Ticket from the deliveryperson in a Pokémon Center, they are prompted to talk to Norman. If the player talks to Norman in the Petalburg Gym after obtaining the Mega Bracelet and Eon Ticket, he will escort the player to the Slateport Harbor, where a Sailor replaces the usual guide and takes the player to Southern Island. At the back of the island's forest is Latias/Latios, who will battle the player if interacted with. This Pokémon is not holding its Mega Stone, unlike the Eon Pokémon encountered on the first visit. After catching it, the player will immediately find a Soul Dew on the ground and put it in their Bag; if the battle ends with the Pokémon not being caught, it will remain staring at the player. Distribution methods varied worldwide. In North America, the Eon Ticket could be transferred to the games through Mystery Events using an e-Reader and the Eon Ticket e-Card. In Europe, it was possible to get the Eon Ticket at promotional events, but it could also be downloaded through Mystery Events from special Nintendo cartridges via Game Link Cable. The Eon Ticket allows players to travel to Southern Island and catch either Latios or Latias, the one that was not found roaming Hoenn. The wild Pokémon will always be holding Soul Dew when it is caught, the only way to legitimately obtain the item in Generation III. Once the island is left, it cannot be returned to even with the ticket still in hand, though only in Ruby and Sapphire; in Emerald, the island remains accessible. A player that received their Eon Ticket from either the e-Card or a promotional event is able to share up to 30 Eon Tickets with other players via record mixing. However, Eon Tickets received via record mixing cannot be shared further. Record mixing is the only way to obtain the Eon Ticket in international versions of Emerald due to them lacking the Mystery Event function. The number of Eon Tickets a player can distribute will decrease by one for each game connected to the player distributing the Eon Tickets whenever or not the receiving player already has one. A physical copy of the ticket was available through Nintendo Power vol. 173 (November 2003). The Eon Ticket e-Card is a promotional Pokémon e Card which was available at E3 2003, in Nintendo Power vol. 173 (November 2003) and for a limited time at Toys "R" Us stores. This card transfers the Eon Ticket via Mystery Events to the Key Items pocket of a US Version of Pokémon Ruby or Pokémon Sapphire. In Mexico, the Eon Ticket was given away during the Electronic Game Show 2003, a videogame conference that took place at the World Trade Center of Mexico City from October 23 to 26. The distribution event was a joint collaboration between Club Nintendo Mexico and Nintendo of America. To get the item, players just had to go to the Nintendo booth where the employees gave them the Eon Ticket e-Card. The Eon Ticket was distributed in various locations of Spain in December 2003. To get the item, players had to go to a specific location from 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM with their Game Boy Advance (any model) and their Pokémon Ruby/Sapphire cartridge. A Nintendo employee transfered the item with an e-Reader and an Eon Ticket e-Card. The Eon Ticket was revealed to return in the remakes Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. A serial code to download the ticket was included in the December 2014 issue of CoroCoro. In the United States, Play! Pokémon League Leaders were given codes to distribute to participants at nearly a thousand Pokémon League locations. New York City's Nintendo World Store also had the Eon Ticket until January 14, 2015. Additionally, the Eon Ticket was made available in the United Kingdom to 15 members of the public, who would pass the ticket to certain GAME stores throughout the country via StreetPass, who could then pass those on to customers who visit the store. This was officially marketed as "The Great Eon Ticket Relay" event. The Eon Ticket can be received via StreetPass from another player who obtained it via StreetPass or serial code. It was also possible to obtain from other players online via StreetPass Relay when visiting Nintendo Zones until March 28, 2018 when the Nintendo Zone service was largely discontinued. An Eon Ticket received through StreetPass will not appear in the Mystery Gift Card Album. As a result, the Eon Ticket will always be handed out as the last gift by the delivery girl. A miniature of the Eon Ticket was included in the Hoenn goods set from the Pokémon World Market merchandise line that was made by Re-Ment and exclusive to the Pokémon Center. The Eon Ticket has also been released as a placeholder "ticket" bundled with a ticket case which was released as part of the Psycho Cyber goods collection exclusive to the Pokémon Center. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, upon being shown the Eon Ticket, Norman remarks that he has not seen such a ticket for 11 years. This references the time between the item's first distribution date in January 2003 and the release of Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire in November 2014.

Title: Scanner

The Scanner (Japanese: たんちき Detector) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. The Scanner can be given to Captain Stern in Slateport City in exchange for one of the items associated with Clamperl and its Evolutions; DeepSeaScale or DeepSeaTooth. The Scanner can be given to Captain Stern in Slateport City in exchange for a Clear Bell or Tidal Bell, which can be used to encounter Ho-Oh or Lugia somewhere on Sea Mauville. The Scanner first appeared in Adding It Up with Plusle & Minun II, where Courtney and Tabitha managed to steal it from the Abandoned Ship, despite the intervention of Ruby and Sapphire. Blaise later modified the Scanner, fixing the broken equipment, and enabling it to track the Red and Blue Orbs on Mt. Pyre. The Scanner reappeared Beedrill Prepares, still under Blaise's ownership. He used it to track the orbs as they returned to Hoenn alongside Archie and Maxie.

Title: Meteorite

The Meteorite (Japanese: いんせき Meteorite) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is used in a variety of contexts in the core series games: In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, FireRed, and LeafGreen, it has no effect on its own, instead being an item that the player can deliver to an NPC for a reward. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, it is fed to Rayquaza during the Delta Episode to enable it to Mega Evolve. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, it allows Deoxys to change between its four forms. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, the player can return the Meteorite to Professor Cozmo in his house in Fallarbor Town in exchange for TM27 (Return). In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, the player can give the Meteorite to Lostelle's father at the Joyful Game Corner on Two Island in exchange for a Moon Stone after rescuing Lostelle at the Berry Forest. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Meteorite changes in appearance and description as the player progresses through the game's story. It transforms from its default form to its second form after the player obtains the Devon Scope on Route 120. It transforms from its second form to its third form after the player defeats Brendan/May in Lilycove City. It transforms from its third form to its final form after the player defeats Zinnia in Granite Cave. At the climax of the Delta Episode, the player feeds it to Rayquaza to give it the necessary energy to Mega Evolve. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, no Rayquaza can Mega Evolve until the Rayquaza in the story has consumed the Meteorite (there is no similar requirement in Generation VII). In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, when the Meteorite is used from the Bag on Deoxys, the player can switch between any of Deoxys's forms in the set order of: Normal Forme to Attack Forme, Attack Forme to Defense Forme, Defense Forme to Speed Forme, and Speed Forme back to Normal Forme. Since Generation IV, Meteorites have appeared as interactive objects in certain locations, starting in Pokémon Diamond and Pearl. Interacting with these meteorites while Deoxys is in your party can change its form. Some meteorites allow Deoxys to change into one specific form, whereas others allow Deoxys to cycle between all four of its forms, in the same way as the Key Item. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Meteorite allows the player to Mega Evolve Rayquaza and Shiny Rayquaza. The player can obtain the Meteorite by defeating Mega Rayquaza in Stage 300, the final stage of Roseus Center. The Meteorite was also available as a prize during the Shiny Mega Rayquaza competitive stages during the game's live service period: The Meteorite enables the following Mega Evolutions: In Pokémon GO, the Meteorite is an item that is used to teach Rayquaza the Charged Attack Dragon Ascent. This is required for Rayquaza to undergo Mega Evolution. The Meteorite appeared in Fight for the Meteorite!. Professor Cozmo searched for it on Mt. Chimney and succeeded in finding it with the help of a scanner. As soon as he found it, however, Team Magma arrived and attempted to steal it, but Team Aqua's arrival gave Professor Cozmo and Ash a chance to get away with the Meteorite. While hiding from Team Magma, Professor Cozmo explained to Ash that the Meteorite was a part of a large asteroid that had fallen from space. The Meteorite was soon stolen by a Golbat belonging to Team Magma and placed inside of a machine meant to make Mt. Chimney erupt. As there was no time to get the Meteorite out of the machine in time to prevent the eruption, Professor Cozmo instead chose to push the machine into the volcano, destroying both it and the Meteorite. In HZ122, Friede handed Liko and Roy a briefcase containing something meant for the Black Rayquaza that he had found in space. In HZ129, the briefcase turned out to contain a Meteorite, which the junior Rising Volt Tacklers fed to Rayquaza at the Dragon Shrine, where it had been resting ever since the battle in Laqua, restoring it to full power. The Meteorite appeared in The Wish, under the ownership of May. When Zinnia failed to Mega Evolve Rayquaza, May allowed the Legendary Pokémon to devour the Meteorite, restoring its ability to Mega Evolve. The Meteorite appeared in Two Groups Attacking! Magma VS. Aqua, where it served the same role as in Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire. In this manga, the Meteorite is known as the Grand Meteor (Japanese: グランメテオ Grand Meteor). It is a stone from space that has the ability to stop natural energy. It was originally discovered by Professor Cozmo at Meteor Falls. In Bubble Bubble Toil and Azumarill II, Team Aqua tricked Professor Cozmo into letting them use the Grand Meteor to stop the volcanic activity of Mt. Chimney, which would allow Hoenn's sea level to rise, aiding in their schemes. Though Sapphire fought to stop them, she was unable to prevent the machine powered by the Grand Meteor from making Mt. Chimney dormant. After Team Aqua escaped, Sapphire tried pursuing them, but was only able to find a broken-off Grand Meteor fragment. In The Beginning of the End with Kyogre & Groudon XIV, Ruby and Sapphire had Mumu and Chic fire their attacks at the Grand Meteor fragment, creating a blast of energy that removed the Red and Blue Orbs from Maxie and Archie's bodies. In It's Starting to Make Sense Now, Sird revealed that the Grand Meteor was the source where the two Deoxys controlled by Team Rocket originated from. They were born when the Grand Meteor was exposed to a laser from a space shuttle launched by the Mossdeep Space Center, mutating a space virus into two separate Pokémon. In PS616, Professor Cozmo discovered that the meteoroid threatening to destroy the world was actually the Grand Meteor, which had somehow returned to space and increased in mass. Not wanting to make things confusing by calling them the same name, Nonkichi suggested naming the meteoroid Grand Meteor Delta.

Title: Devon Scope

The Devon Scope (Japanese: デボンスコープ Devon Scope) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is one of Devon Corporation's products. The Devon Scope allows the player to detect invisible Pokémon. This allows them to battle hidden Kecleon throughout Routes 119 and 120, and grants them access beyond the northern bridge on Route 120 and enter Fortree Gym. The Devon Scope provides the same functions as in the original games, but two extra Kecleon will appear after completing two major story arcs. After dealing with Groudon/Kyogre, the player can uncover a Kecleon in the ladies' hot springs in Lavaridge Town. After completing the Delta Episode, they can find another Kecleon behind the astronaut face board inside the Mossdeep Space Center. The latter Kecleon has its Hidden Ability, Protean. In Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the Devon Scope appears in the Kecleon bonus stage. It can be knocked down from the tree to make the otherwise invisible Kecleon visible for a short time. A Devon Scope first appeared in A Royal Rumble with Regirock, Regice and Registeel I, where Phoebe used it to examine the damaged stone tablet about Regirock, Regice, and Registeel. In Salamence Evolves, Mr. Stone used a Devon Scope to remotely observe Sapphire and Emerald's Mega Evolution training in Dewford Town from aboard the S.S. Tidal. A toy designed after the Devon Scope has been released as part of the Pokémon Trainer's Kit Advance 3 toy line by Bandai in February 2004.

Title: Bike Voucher

The Bike Voucher (Japanese: ひきかえけん Voucher) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. The Bike Voucher can be redeemed at the bike shop in Cerulean City for a free Bicycle. The bicycle normally costs $1,000,000, which is more money than the player can carry in these games. The Bike Voucher made a brief appearance in File 2: Cubone, where Red was seen exchanging it for a Bicycle, mentioning how he had received it from the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman. The Bike Voucher was mentioned in Wake Up—You're Snorlax, where Red was revealed to have received one from the Pokémon Fan Club Chairman and exchanged it for a bike off-panel. In Pokémon Power (issue 2, page 3), it is said that multiple Bike Vouchers have been distributed, and that each one can be exchanged specifically for a '98 model bike, since the Bike Shop is making room for new models. This relates to the fact that this magazine issue was cover-dated September 1998.

Title: Gold Teeth

The Gold Teeth (Japanese: きんのいれば Gold Dentures) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. The player can return the Gold Teeth to their owner, the Safari Zone Warden, in exchange for HM04 (Strength). The player can return the Gold Teeth to their owner, the Safari Zone Warden, to have him teach the Secret Technique Strong Push to their partner Pokémon. The Gold Teeth appears in Pokémon Pokopia as an obtainable Lost Relic. The Gold Teeth were briefly seen in Start the Countdown, Starmie, where Baoba accidentally spat them out of his mouth in shock upon seeing the Team Rocket airship flying in the sky over him. The Gold Teeth appeared in PZ07. Satoshi first heard of them from the Safari Zone Warden's assistants. Later, while exploring the Safari Zone, Satoshi fished up a Dratini, which a Fisherman asked Satoshi to trade for him in exchange for the numerous Water Pokémon he had caught. At first, Satoshi was hesitant, but when he saw the Gold Teeth inside one of the Fisherman's Poké Balls, he accepted the offer. Along the way back to the Warden, Satoshi met Koga, who revealed that he had stolen the dentures as a form of protest for the Warden having built Safari Zone at a site that used to be a ninja village. Satoshi eventually returned the dentures to the Warden, restoring his ability to speak properly. The Gold Teeth are seen in the artwork of the Hoopa V card from the Crown Zenith expansion. A similar Key Item, Steel Teeth, exists in Pokémon Colosseum, and can be returned to an old man. Unlike the Gold Teeth, however, returning the Steel Teeth is optional.

Title: Lift Key

The Lift Key (Japanese: エレベータのカギ Elevator Key) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. The Lift Key allows the player to operate the elevator in Team Rocket's Hideout, allowing them to access the section of the bottom floor where Giovanni's office is. The Lift Key is involved in a minor glitch in Generation I. If the player is standing to the left of the Team Rocket Grunt who has the Lift Key and talks to him, the Lift Key will appear underneath the player when he drops it. The player can still move around and collect it if he moves downward. This glitch was fixed in Pokémon Yellow, due to the Grunt automatically dropping the Lift Key as soon as he is defeated.

Title: Silph Scope

The Silph Scope (Japanese: シルフスコープ Sylph Scope) is a Key Item introduced in Generation I. It was created by Silph Co. It allows a person to identify ghosts. If the Silph Scope is in the Bag, the player is able to have regular Pokémon battles against the wild Pokémon that appear inside the Pokémon Tower in Lavender Town. Otherwise, those Pokémon appear as unidentified ghosts. The player requires the Silph Scope in order to battle the ghost Marowak who blocks the last staircase and reach the Pokémon Tower 7F, ultimately obtaining the Poké Flute from Mr. Fuji. In Pokémon Red, Blue, Yellow, FireRed, and LeafGreen, any Poké Balls (including Master Balls) thrown at unidentified ghosts are wasted, with the Silph Scope required to catch any Pokémon at the Pokémon Tower. The ghost Marowak is uncatchable; any Poké Balls thrown at her are still wasted even with the Silph Scope. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the Silph Scope also prevents the player from being warped back to the first floor of the Pokémon Tower, which would normally be the result of being touched by an unidentified ghost. The Silph Scope is still required to bypass the ghost Marowak, this time triggering an cutscene, but the player does not battle her in those games. The Silph Scope made an appearance in File 2: Cubone. It was possessed by a small group of Team Rocket Grunts who were holding Mr. Fuji captive at the Pokémon Tower. Like in the games, the Silph Scope had the ability to unveil the true identity of both Ghost-type Pokémon and real ghosts. The Silph Scope was later stolen from the Grunts by Blue, who then gave it to Red, allowing him to identify the ghost he was fighting as Cubone's dead mother, Marowak. Afterwards, Red returned the Silph Scope to the Rocket Grunts, who presumably took it with themselves as they left after being defeated by Red in a battle. Green possesses a modified Silph Scope that is able to reveal all invisible Pokémon. In this canon, Green is also the one who invented the Silph Scope. Green's Silph Scope first appeared in The Jynx Jinx, where she used it, along with a data disc she had stolen from Team Rocket, to locate and identify Mew. In Kalling Kadabra, Green used the Silph Scope to examine the barrier over Saffron City. In Zap! Zap! Zapdos, Green used the Silph Scope to see through her Horsea's Smokescreen during her battle against Sabrina at Silph Co.. In Now You See Me..., when an invisible Pokémon attacked Green aboard the Seagallop ferry, she used the Scope to unveil it, although she couldn't recognize it. Red and Blue later recovered the Silph Scope, and used its playback function to get a look at the thing that had attacked Green. In Surprised by Sneasel, Silver was revealed to also possess a Silph Scope, which he used to examine the Team Rocket airship as it appeared above him and Yellow. In Right on Time, Rhydon, Green used her Silph Scope to inspect a burning piece of wreckage that had broken off from the Team Rocket airship, spotting Silver trapped inside the flames. The Silph Scope first appears in Get Rid Of The Ghost Pokémon!!. Red's rival, Blue, is shown to have one and used it to identify Gengar's movements during its battle with Clefairy. However, Clefairy took the Silph Scope and used it to his advantage to defeat Gengar. Unlike its game counterpart, the Silph Scope is shaped as glasses and it was not shown to come from Silph Co. The Silph Scope was seen in Celadon City. After Satoshi had been scared away from the Pokémon Tower by a Gastly, he saw several Team Rocket Grunts exciting the Tower, using a Silph Scope to avoid being scared by the ghosts. Satoshi then secretly followed the Grunts to the Rocket Hideout, where he snatched one of the Scopes that were in there. Using the Scope, he was able to get past of the ghosts in the Tower and all the way to the top floor, where he encountered Mr. Fuji, who was being held captive by Team Rocket. The Silph Scope has been featured on merchandise from the Lavender Town Collection by The Pokémon Company International. A sign next to the Pokémon Tower in Lavender Town advertises the Silph Scope, proclaiming Make the Invisible Plain to See! In Generation I, if the player uses a Poké Doll to flee from the Marowak ghost, it will disappear as if it had been defeated. This allows the player to proceed in the games' story without obtaining the Silph Scope (making battling the Rocket Hideout unnecessary). In Generation I, if the player views the status screen of a Pokémon, the ghost's sprite will change to that of the actual Pokémon. However, it still cannot be battled or caught.

Title: Fame Checker

The Fame Checker (Japanese: ボイスチェッカー Voice Checker) is a Key Item that appears in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen. It records miscellaneous information about famous people (such as Gym Leaders). The Fame Checker has a simple design. It is dark red and has a screen roughly the size of the Pokédex screen. It has four black speaker holes on the left side, and on the right side it has a Poké Ball-shaped button or wheel split into three different portions. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, there are several characters who the player can collect information about in the Fame Checker. Each character who appears in the Fame Checker has six different entries that can be unlocked. Each of these entries corresponds to a quote about the character that the player can encounter within the game. When the player encounters this dialogue in the game, it will be registered in their Fame Checker. Each entry has a title (e.g. "Favorite kind of Pokémon", "Friends and Family", etc.), a location (which does not necessarily correspond to the save location), and the character or text being quoted; additionally, the overworld sprite of the character or object that provided the quote appears as an icon that represents that entry. Prior to unlocking an entry, it appears as a question mark with no title or indication of where the player can unlock it. Quotes encountered before obtaining the Fame Checker appear on it as unlocked entries as soon as it is obtained. These quotes can come from a variety of sources: the character themselves, major characters, unnamed NPCs, NPC Trainers, signs, Pokémon Journal, etc. Once all six data pieces are obtained in a person's section, the player can read a message that that character has sent directly to the player. The characters who have information stored in the Fame Checker in Generation III are as follows: Clicking a character's sprite will direct to their Fame Checker transcript. In Pokémon Emerald, the Fame Checker is found in the game data, but it is not legitimately obtainable and has no effect when used. Fame Checkers first appeared in Return to Pallet Town. When Red and Blue returned to Professor Oak's Laboratory in Pallet Town, they discovered three Fame Checkers left for them and Green by Professor Oak. On the Fame Checkers, the two Pokédex holders heard a voice message from the Professor himself, asking them to deposit their Pokédexes into the PC Item Storage System, much to their surprise and confusion. In Going Green, it was revealed that Professor Oak had been forced to make the aforementioned voice messages by Orm as a part of Team Rocket's plan to have Professor Oak reverse-engineer Team Rocket their own version of the Pokédex in preparation of catching Deoxys. However, what Orm hadn't noticed was that Professor Oak had secretly turned Green's Fame Checker on while being attacked, recording the conversation between him and Orm into it. A toy designed after the Fame Checker has been released as part of the Pokémon Trainer's Kit Advance 5 toy line by Bandai in January 2005. In Koga's Fame Checker entries, his daughter Janine is incorrectly identified as "Charine".

Title: Berry Pouch

The Berry Pouch (Japanese: きのみぶくろ Berry Sack) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. The Berry Pouch holds the Berries the player collects in place of the Berries pocket introduced in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire. In Generation V, the bag pockets are referred to as "cases", and are depicted in-game as a series of different containers, one of which includes a separate pouch for Berries, perhaps alluding to the Berry Pouch from Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen.

Title: Rainbow Pass

The Rainbow Pass (Japanese: レインボーパス Rainbow Pass) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. It is one of the Sevii Island passes. The Rainbow Pass allows the player to travel via the Seagallop ferries between Vermilion City's port and the Sevii Islands. The player must have previously obtained the Tri-Pass, which grants access to One Island, Two Island, and Three Island. Once the Rainbow Pass is obtained as well, the player will also have access to Four Island, Five Island, Six Island, and Seven Island. The player is required to own the Rainbow Pass in order to use the event-only AuroraTicket or MysticTicket (although both tickets can be obtained before the Rainbow Pass), to travel to the Birth Island and Navel Rock, respectively. In My, My, My Mimic, Red and Blue each obtained a Rainbow Pass sent to them by Bill, using them to board the Seagallop Ferry to Four Island. In Going Green, Green was revealed to have obtained her Tri-Pass and Rainbow Pass prior to the arc in order to travel to the Sevii Islands and catch Moltres on Mt. Ember.

Title: Tea

Tea (Japanese: おちゃ Green Tea) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. Tea can be given to one of the Saffron City guards to be granted access to the city from all gates. In Generation I, a Fresh Water, Soda Pop, or Lemonade could be given to the thirsty guards who blocked entry into Saffron City; this is changed in the remakes, Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, where they must be given Tea instead. This is likely to prevent exploitation of a Pokémon's ability to hold items, which did not exist in Generation I, and would allow a player of FireRed or LeafGreen to trade one of the three drinks from another game and enter Saffron as early as they arrived in Cerulean. This exploit is actually possible in the Generation I games by using Pokémon Stadium 2's Color Case to move the item from another game's Bag or PC. Even though Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! does not have the held item mechanic, the Tea item was kept for two reasons: the ability to find Fresh Water in the Underground Paths as a recurring item, and to prevent the player from softlocking the game by getting rid of money in such a way that they can no longer afford a drink.

Title: Powder Jar

The Powder Jar (Japanese: こないれ Powder Container) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. Stores up to 99,999 units of Berry Powder. Berry Powder is produced by the Berry Crush minigame in Pokémon FireRed, LeafGreen, and Emerald; the player must have a Powder Jar in order to participate in Berry Crush.

Title: Ruby

For the Generation III game, see Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire Versions. For the Generation VI game, see Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. For the trailer of these games, see Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer. For the Pokémon storage system playable on GameCube, see Pokémon Box Ruby & Sapphire. For the Pinball game, see Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire. For the Pokémon Adventures manga chapter based on the Generation III games, see Ruby & Sapphire arc. For the Pokémon Adventures manga chapter based on the Generation VI games, see Omega Ruby & Alpha Sapphire arc. For the sequel to Pokémon Pocket Monsters, see Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire. For the manga about twin brothers Alpha and Omega, see Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom. For the male player character in Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, see Brendan (game). For the Pokémon Adventures manga character, see Ruby (Adventures). For the Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire manga character, see Ruby (Ruby-Sapphire). For Brendan's counterpart in the Pokémon Battle Frontier manga, see Rald. For Brendan's twin counterparts in the CPIW manga, see Alpha (CPIW) and Omega (CPIW). For the female Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire manga character known as Ruby in Japanese version, see Sapphire (Ruby-Sapphire). For the resident of the Seven Grapefruit Islands in the Orange Islands, see Ruby (EP094). For the area in Pokémon Rumble World, see Ruby Volcano. For the dungeon in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare), see Ruby Lake. For the Key Item in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, see Ruby (item).

Title: Sapphire

For the Generation III game, see Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire Versions. For the Generation VI game, see Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. For the trailer of these games, see Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer. For the Pokémon storage system playable on GameCube, see Pokémon Box Ruby & Sapphire. For the Pinball game, see Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire. For the Pokémon Adventures manga chapter based on the Generation III games, see Ruby & Sapphire arc. For the Pokémon Adventures manga chapter based on the Generation VI games, see Omega Ruby & Alpha Sapphire arc. For the sequel to Pokémon Pocket Monsters, see Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire. For the manga about twin brothers Alpha and Omega, see Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom. For the female player character of Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, see May (game). For the animated series counterpart of May, see May (anime). For the Pokémon Adventures manga character, see Sapphire (Adventures). For the Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire manga character, see Sapphire (Ruby-Sapphire). For the male Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire manga character known as Sapphire in Japanese version, see Ruby (Ruby-Sapphire). For the area in Pokémon Rumble World, see Sapphire Sea. For the Key Item in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, see Sapphire (item). For the theme deck in this set, see Sapphire (TCG).

Title: Magma Emblem

The Magma Emblem (Japanese: マグマのしるし Magma Symbol) is a Key Item introduced in Generation III. The Magma Emblem allows the player to open the hidden entrance to Team Magma's Hideout at the Jagged Pass.

Title: Old Sea Map

The Old Sea Map (Japanese: ふるびたかいず Old Sea Chart) is an event-exclusive Key Item exclusive to Pokémon Emerald. It is needed to access Faraway Island, a location at which Mew can be encountered and caught. The Old Sea Map allows the player to travel to Faraway Island via the S.S. Tidal, where a wild Mew can be encountered. When the player has the Old Sea Map, if they interact with the woman standing in front of the S.S. Tidal at the Lilycove City Harbor, she will fetch the captain. The captain initially claims it is impossible to take the player to the area denoted on the chart, but Mr. Briney scolds him for turning the player away and volunteers to take the player to Faraway Island, even though it is a long way from Hoenn. After the boat ride, the player enters Faraway Island, a small island with a thick patch of forest. Deep within this forest, the player notices Mew, who flees playfully. After a short game of hide and seek, the player is able to pin Mew in a corner and engage it in battle. Main article: List of other event distributions in Generation III → Old Sea Map The Old Sea Map was only distributed in Japan and Taiwan, both for the Japanese version of Pokémon Emerald. In Japan, it was available at Pokémon Festa from July 17 to August 21, 2005, as well as at PokéPark from September 1 to 25, 2005. In Taiwan, it was available at PokéPark from June 23 to September 24, 2006 for people with a Pokémon Download Qualification Certificate (Chinese: 神奇寶貝下載資格證), which was distributed with each purchase of a ticket to the movie Lucario and the Mystery of Mew. The Old Sea Map was never distributed for other language versions. Instead, Mew was distributed directly in several other events for the Generation III games. The Old Sea Map was one of the items Ultima stole from Team Rocket's stash of rare items at Trainer Tower in Bested by Banette. She had been looking for it in order to help her old friend, Mr. Briney, find a way to Faraway Island. When Ultima called Briney about her find, however, she was shocked to learn that the old sailor had managed to find the island without the map. The Old Sea Map and the related event were both created by Shigeki Morimoto, Mew's original designer.

Title: Douse Drive

The Douse Drive (Japanese: アクアカセット Aqua Cassette) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Drives, which are associated with Genesect. It corresponds to the Water type. If the holder uses Techno Blast, it becomes a Water-type move. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Douse Drive form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Genesect a Drive or remove a Drive from Genesect. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Douse Drive form. The Douse Drive, along with the other Drives, appeared in the movie Genesect and the Legend Awakened, attached to a member of the Genesect Army. While it was used with the same purpose of changing the type of Techno Blast in the movie, it was also the key item to tell its owner apart from the other Genesect. The Genesect with the Douse Drive had a different personality from the others, and was typically timid and kind unless forced to act by its leader. In Innocent Scientist, the Douse Drive, along with the other Drives, was under Colress's possession.

Title: Shock Drive

The Shock Drive (Japanese: イナズマカセット Lightning Cassette) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Drives, which are associated with Genesect. It corresponds to the Electric type. If the holder uses Techno Blast, it becomes an Electric-type move. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Shock Drive form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Genesect a Drive or remove a Drive from Genesect. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Shock Drive form. The Shock Drive, along with the other Drives, appeared in the movie Genesect and the Legend Awakened, attached to a member of the Genesect Army. While it was used with the same purpose of changing the type of Techno Blast in the movie, it was also the key item to tell its owner apart from the other Genesect. From Mr. Perfect to Innocent Scientist, Colress used a Genesect to battle against Blake. After falling for one of Blake's taunts, Colress angrily switched the Drive on Genesect's back for a Shock Drive in order to put Blake's Dewott at a disadvantage against the Paleozoic Pokémon. Once Blake had defeated and captured Genesect, he obtained the Shock Drive in the process. The Shock Drive was later given to the Magician in order to reverse-engineer another set of Burn, Chill, and Douse Drives.

Title: Burn Drive

The Burn Drive (Japanese: ブレイズカセット Blaze Cassette) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Drives, which are associated with Genesect. It corresponds to the Fire type. If the holder uses Techno Blast, it becomes a Fire-type move. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Burn Drive form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Genesect a Drive or remove a Drive from Genesect. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Burn Drive form. The Burn Drive, along with the other Drives, appeared in the movie Genesect and the Legend Awakened, attached to a member of the Genesect Army. While it was used with the same purpose of changing the type of Techno Blast in the movie, it was also the key item to tell its owner apart from the other Genesect. From Mr. Perfect to Innocent Scientist, Colress used a Genesect to battle against Blake. Once Blake had defeated and captured Genesect, he obtained the Shock Drive in the process. The Shock Drive was later given to the Magician in order to reverse-engineer another set of Burn, Chill, and Douse Drives. Blake used the Burn Drive to battle Team Plasma on the Plasma Frigate, though, due to it being incomplete at the time, Genesect was injured by its own attack and left exhausted after using Techno Blast on some Team Plasma Grunts. After Blake had later used the Fire-type Techno Blast to save the Swords of Justice from being frozen in ice, Cobalion knocked the damaged Burn Drive off of Genesect's body, after which it exploded.

Title: Chill Drive

The Chill Drive (Japanese: フリーズカセット Freeze Cassette) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Drives, which are associated with Genesect. It corresponds to the Ice type. If the holder uses Techno Blast, it becomes an Ice-type move. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Chill Drive form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Genesect a Drive or remove a Drive from Genesect. Changes a Genesect holding this item to its Chill Drive form. The Chill Drive, along with the other Drives, appeared in the movie Genesect and the Legend Awakened, attached to a member of the Genesect Army. While it was used with the same purpose of changing the type of Techno Blast in the movie, it was also the key item to tell its owner apart from the other Genesect. In Innocent Scientist, the Chill Drive, along with the other Drives, was under Colress's possession.

Title: Sweet Heart

The Sweet Heart (Japanese: ハートスイーツ Heart Sweets) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation V. It is a heart-shaped chocolate that restores a Pokémon's HP. In the Generation V games, the Sweet Heart can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $100. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it heals the Pokémon by 20 HP. In Mistralton City, the player can give a woman ten Sweet Hearts in exchange for a Heart Scale. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, on Valentine's Day (February 14) and White Day (March 14), the woman will allow the exchange for only five Sweet Hearts. In Pride of a Champion!, James's Morpeko was seen eating a Sweet Heart. Sweet Hearts are based on heart-shaped chocolates which are a popular gift between lovers. Their name is a pun on the term of endearment "sweetheart".

Title: Greet Mail

The Greet Mail (Japanese: はじめてメール Greeting Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation V games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The available sentences for Greet Mail are: The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation VI games through the Poké Transporter and the Pokémon Bank. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet, Thief, or the Pickpocket Ability, it causes Bestow and Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Favored Mail

The Favored Mail (Japanese: だいすきメール Loveable Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation V games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The available sentences for Favored Mail are: It's great because it's <word 1>. Don't you agree? The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation VI games through the Poké Transporter and the Pokémon Bank. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet, Thief, or the Pickpocket Ability, it causes Bestow and Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Thanks Mail

The Thanks Mail (Japanese: かんしゃメール Gratitude Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation V games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The available sentences for Thanks Mail are: The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation VI games through the Poké Transporter and the Pokémon Bank. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet, Thief, or the Pickpocket Ability, it causes Bestow and Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder. It depicts Shaymin, and its Japanese name is a direct reference to Shaymin’s Pokédex classification, namely the "Gratitude Pokémon."

Title: Inquiry Mail

The Inquiry Mail (Japanese: しつもんメール Enquiry Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation V games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The available sentences for Inquiry Mail are: It bothers us, doesn't it? I'm talking about <word 1>. The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation VI games through the Poké Transporter and the Pokémon Bank. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet, Thief, or the Pickpocket Ability, it causes Bestow and Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Like Mail

The Like Mail (Japanese: おすすめメール Recommendation Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation V games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The available sentences for Like Mail are: The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation VI games through the Poké Transporter and the Pokémon Bank. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet, Thief, or the Pickpocket Ability, it causes Bestow and Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder.

Title: Reply Mail

The Reply Mail (Japanese: おかえしメール Return Mail) is a type of Mail exclusive to the Generation V games. It contains a message with up to three sentence slots which can be filled with words and phrases using the predefined list from the easy chat system. This was designed to be readable in games of any language. The available sentences for Reply Mail are: The player writes the message when giving this item to be held by a Pokémon. The message can be sent to other games of the same generation by trading the Pokémon holding this item. The message remains available as long as this item is held by a Pokémon or stored in the Mailbox. This item is unable to have any message when stored in the Bag or in the Item Storage System, but there is the option to delete any existing message when storing this item in these places. Once the message is deleted from this item, the player is able to reuse it with a new message. A Pokémon holding this item cannot be placed in the PC or in the Pokémon Day Care. As with other held items, a Pokémon holding this item cannot be transferred into Generation VI games through the Poké Transporter and the Pokémon Bank. This item can be removed by Knock Off. However, it cannot be stolen by Covet, Thief, or the Pickpocket Ability, it causes Bestow and Fling to fail when used by the holder, and causes Switcheroo or Trick to fail when used by or on the holder. The Reply Mail is one of the 6 types of Mail featured in a Pokémon Center-exclusive letter set released in November 2021.

Title: Prism Scale

The Prism Scale (Japanese: きれいなウロコ Beautiful Scale) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It allows Feebas to evolve into Milotic. Causes Feebas to evolve into Milotic when traded while holding it. This consumes the Prism Scale. This item was introduced in Generation V due to the lack of a means to increase Beauty in these games. However, even in games in which the Prism Scale exists, a Feebas can still evolve if leveled up while its Beauty is high enough. A Prism Scale appears during Chapter 4 of Detective Pikachu, being worn by Milo Green on his headband. He mentions that he obtained the scale when he was once saved from drowning by a Pokémon, which is later revealed to have been a Milotic. The presence of this Prism Scale also acts as the trigger to the Evolution of a Feebas that Milo has befriended. A Prism Scale appeared in The Cuteness Quotient!, where it was attached to Jinny's Feebas. During an attack by Team Rocket, the Prism Scale fell off, but Jinny reattached it to Feebas, causing it to evolve into Milotic. The Prism Scale is the held item featured alongside Feebas in the Held Item Pins line by The Pokémon Company International. In Pokémon Black and White, the Prism Scale was incorrectly categorized in the Bag as a general item rather than a held item. This was corrected in Black 2 and White 2, but was undone in X and Y, causing it to be sorted with valuable items rather than Evolution items in Generations VI and VII.

Title: Eviolite

The Eviolite (Japanese: しんかのきせき Evolution Stone) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It boosts the Defense and Special Defense of a Pokémon that holds it if the holder is not fully evolved. If held by a Pokémon that is not fully evolved, its Defense and Special Defense are raised by 50%. The Eviolite only affects Pokémon if their form and species has non-zero value in their "personal data", (internal data that determines the basic traits of any given Pokémon), for an Evolution method, regardless of whether that Evolution method is legitimately accessible. While this functions as expected for most species/forms, there are some notable unusual cases such as instances where an Evolution method "exists" but is inaccessible, as well as some hardcoded exclusions: If only the regional form of a species can evolve, only the regional form is affected by the Eviolite. Meltan is not affected by the Eviolite, because it cannot evolve in the core series games, only being able to evolve in Pokémon GO. It does not affect Cosplay Pikachu, Pikachu in a cap, or Eternal Flower Floette, as those specific forms have no Evolution method coded, even though the base species is capable of evolving. It does not affect Pikachu, Meowth, or Eevee while they have the Gigantamax Factor, as they are hardcoded not to evolve unless the Gigantamax Factor is removed via Max Soup, as well as being hardcoded to not receive the Eviolite boost if they have the Gigantamax Factor. It does affect male Combee and Salandit, despite only female Combee and Salandit being capable of Evolution, as they are the same species and form as their female counterparts and therefore share the "non-zero Evolution value" in their personal data. It does affect certain Pokémon that are capable of Evolution despite it being impossible to meet the requirements for their Evolution. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Galarian Slowpoke was affected by the Eviolite before the Galarica Cuff or Galarica Wreath were made available in the Pokémon Sword and Shield Expansion Pass. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, it affects Ursaring and Stantler despite their Evolution methods being inaccessible within Scarlet and Violet. Hisuian Qwilfish was also similarly affected for the same reason before The Indigo Disk added its Evolution method into Overqwil. Prior to Hydrapple's introduction in The Indigo Disk, Dipplin was affected by the Eviolite. If held by a transformed Pokémon, the boost is based on its original species, not the species it is transformed into. In Challenge the Battle Subway!, an Eviolite was held by Monta's Boldore. Eviolite was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) in the Noble Victories expansion. When this Trainer card is attached to a Basic Pokémon, any damage done to this Pokémon by attacks is reduced by 20, after applying Weakness and Resistance. Eviolite's name may be derived from Evolution and the -ite suffix found in the names of many minerals. Eviolite's Japanese name is a pun as しんかのきせき (Shinka no Kiseki) can mean either "Evolution Stone" or "Evolution Miracle."

Title: Float Stone

The Float Stone (Japanese: かるいし Pumice Stone) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Float Stone can be sold to an item maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $1000. Autotomize is applied before other weight-modifying effects, including the Float Stone. A Pokémon's weight cannot be reduced below 0.1 kg. This has no effect on the Heavy Ball, which uses the Pokémon's species' weight rather than its current weight. In Pokémon UNITE, the Float Stone is a held item that increases the holders movement speed while out of combat and increases their Attack and Speed. 5 seconds after leaving combat, the user's movement speed is increased by 10/15/20% at respectively Grades 1, 10, and 20. Attack and Speed are increased by 1.6 and 0 at Grade 1 and 24 and 150 at Grade 30. Float Stone was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) in the Plasma Freeze expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It was reprinted with artwork by Toyste Beach during the XY Series in the BREAKthrough expansion. This Trainer card causes the holder to have no Retreat Cost.

Title: Rocky Helmet

The Rocky Helmet (Japanese: ゴツゴツメット Rugged Helmet) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It damages Pokémon that hit the holder with contact moves. If a Pokémon uses a move that makes contact with a Pokémon holding a Rocky Helmet, the Pokémon that used the move takes damage equal to 1/6 of its maximum HP. Each individual strike from a multistrike move that makes contact will activate the Rocky Helmet. If a Pokémon using Thief, Covet, or Knock Off or that has the Ability Magician faints due to the target's held Rocky Helmet, it cannot steal or remove the target's Rocky Helmet. In link battles and battle facilities, if two Trainers' Pokémon faint at the same time due to a held Rocky Helmet, the Trainer whose Pokémon held the Rocky Helmet wins. Due to a bug, in version 1.0 of Pokémon Sun and Moon, in link battles and battle facilities, if two Trainers' Pokémon faint at the same time due to a held Rocky Helmet, the Trainer whose Pokémon held the Rocky Helmet wins. From version 1.1 of Pokémon Sun and Moon onward, the Trainer whose Pokémon did not hold the Rocky Helmet wins. In Pokémon UNITE, the Rocky Helmet is a held item that causes recoil to nearby enemies after taking damage equal or greater than 10% max HP in one strike (with a cooldown of 2s). This damage is equal to 3/4/5% of user's max HP at grades 1, 10, and 20 respectively. This item also increases user's HP and Defense: 18 and 0 respectively at Grade 1, and 270 and 51 at Grade 30. In Under the Pledging Tree!, a Rocky Helmet was one of the items offered to Ash by a market vendor in Coumarine City after Ash had wondered out loud what presents he should buy for an upcoming festival. Rocky Helmet was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era) in the Noble Victories expansion (the Japanese Red Collection), with artwork by Ryo Ueda. It was reprinted as both a Regular and an Ultra Rare Secret card in the English Boundaries Crossed expansion with artwork by the same illustrator. During the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese SWSH Era) the card was reprinted in the Vivid Voltage expansion (the Japanese Legendary Heartbeat subset) with artwork by Studio Bora Inc. For the Scarlet & Violet Series (Era in Japan), Rocky Helmet was reprinted again with artwork by Ayaka Yoshida. This print features the new Trainer card layout and Pokémon Tool card category introduced at the start of this Series. When this card is attached to the player's Active Pokémon, if an opponent deals damage to that Pokémon (even if it is Knocked Out), the player can put two damage counters on the Attacking Pokémon. A strap featuring Scraggy and a Rocky Helmet has been released on January 19, 2013 as part of the Pokémon Goods For Adventure Campaign. It was exclusive to the Pokémon Center. The Rocky Helmet has also been featured on a mini towel that was released on March 27, 2025 as part of the Pokémon Sento goods collection exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Air Balloon

Balloon redirects here. For Team Rocket's balloon, see Team Rocket's mechas#Meowth Balloon. The Air Balloon (Japanese: ふうせん Balloon) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It makes the holder ungrounded. The Air Balloon makes the holder ungrounded, which means that the holder is immune to damaging Ground-type moves and several related effects. If the holder or its substitute is hit by a damaging move (even if it has Disguise), the Air Balloon is destroyed. A message is displayed when a Pokémon is sent into battle while holding an Air Balloon (if its effect is not negated). The Air Balloon does not make the holder ungrounded while Gravity is in effect or if it is under the effect of Ingrain, Smack Down, or Thousand Arrows (but this does not prevent it from bursting). An Air Balloon will not burst while Magic Room is in effect, if the holder has the Ability Klutz or is under the effect of Embargo. A burst Air Balloon cannot be recovered with Recycle or Pickup. The Air Balloon bursts before it can be stolen by Thief, Covet, or Magician. Whether a Pokémon is affected by terrain is determined before the Air Balloon bursts, so terrain cannot prevent a Pokémon holding an Air Balloon from being afflicted by a status condition from the move that bursts the Air Balloon. An Air Balloon bursting will trigger Unburden and Symbiosis. An Air Balloon appeared in Challenge the Battle Subway!, being held by Monta's Snivy. The Air Balloon was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Sword expansion before debuting in English in the Sword & Shield expansion, with artwork by Yoshinobu Saito. It was also released as a Secret Full Art card in the same Japanese and English expansion, with artwork by the same artist. It reduces the Retreat Cost of the holder by (2 Energy).

Title: Red Card

The Red Card (Japanese: レッドカード Red Card) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation V. If the holder is hit by another Pokémon's damaging move, it switches out the attacker. If the holder is hit by a damaging move and does not faint, it consumes the Red Card and forces the Pokémon that used the move (even if it was an ally) to switch to a random Pokémon. If held by a wild Pokémon in a Single Battle, it forces a player's Pokémon that attacks it to flee when activated. In a wild battle that was initiated as a Horde Encounter or Double Battle, or an SOS Battle in which there are currently two wild Pokémon, the Red Card will cause the player's attacking Pokémon to switch rather than flee. If multiple Pokémon, each holding a Red Card, are hit by a single attack, only the fastest holder's held Red Card will activate. The Red Card will not activate if the attacker is a wild Pokémon or its Trainer has no Pokémon to switch in, even if the Red Card would cause the attacker to flee rather than switch out. The Red Card will not activate if a Pokémon's substitute takes the hit instead. If a move is boosted by the effect of Sheer Force, that move will not activate the Red Card. The Red Card activates after the last strike of a multistrike move. If the attacker has Suction Cups, is a Dondozo with a Tatsugiri in its mouth because of Commander, or is under the effect of Ingrain, the Red Card will still activate and be consumed, but fails to cause that Pokémon to switch out or flee (even if that attacker is Ghost-type, has the Ability Run Away, or is holding a Shed Shell or Smoke Ball). Trapping moves (besides Ingrain) and trapping Abilities do not prevent a Pokémon from being forced to switch out or flee by the Red Card. The Red Card will be knocked off or stolen by Knock Off, Thief, Covet, or Magician before it has the opportunity to activate. A Pokémon with Pickpocket holding a Red Card can steal an attacker's item with Pickpocket even after that attacker is switched out by the Pokémon's held Red Card; if a Pokémon steals a Red Card due to Pickpocket, that Red Card cannot activate for that same attack. The Red Card switches out the attacker before its own held Life Orb or Shell Bell has a chance to activate. If a Pokémon holding a Red Card is hit by a combination move (Grass Pledge, Fire Pledge, or Water Pledge) without fainting, and the attacker is switched out, the combination effect will not be created. If a Pokémon holding a Red Card is hit by Dragon Tail or Circle Throw without fainting, it is forced to switch out or flee without giving its Red Card the opportunity to activate. If a Pokémon holding a Red Card is hit by U-turn, Volt Switch or Flip Turn without fainting, the Red Card activates and forces the attacker to switch to a random Pokémon, instead of a Pokémon of their Trainer's choice. Emergency Exit and Wimp Out will not activate if a Red Card is used up on the same move, while U-turn, Volt Switch and Flip Turn will not cause the user to switch if they are holding a Red Card. Dynamaxed Pokémon cannot be switched out by the Red Card, but the item will still be consumed. In Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket, Red Card appears as an Item card that forces a player's opponent to shuffle their hand into their deck and draw three cards. Red Card was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (the Japanese XY Era) in the XY expansion. This Trainer card makes the opponent shuffle their hand into their deck and draw 4 cards.

Title: Ring Target

The Ring Target (Japanese: ねらいのまと Aim Target) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It removes the holder's type immunities to moves. The holder loses its type immunities to attacking moves. It does not affect other type-based immunities, such as Grass-type Pokémon being immune to powder and spore moves, but does make Ground-type Pokémon vulnerable to Thunder Wave. Flying-type Pokémon become vulnerable to Ground-type moves, but are otherwise considered ungrounded.

Title: Binding Band

The Binding Band (Japanese: しめつけバンド Binding Band) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. Causes binding moves used by the holder to inflict binding that deals damage equal to 1/8 (rather than 1/16) of the target's maximum HP at the end of each turn. Causes binding moves used by the holder to inflict binding that deals damage equal to 1/6 (rather than 1/8) of the target's maximum HP at the end of each turn. Prior to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the Binding Band is a Möbius strip. In its Scarlet and Violet artwork, it is instead depicted as a regular two-sided band.

Title: Absorb Bulb

The Absorb Bulb (Japanese: きゅうこん Bulb) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It raises the holder's Special Attack when it is hit by a damaging Water-type move. If the holder is hit by a Water-type damaging move, it consumes the Absorb Bulb and its Special Attack is increased by one stage. It does not activate if the holder already has +6 Special Attack stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Special Attack stat stages). It does not activate if the holder is protected from or unaffected by the Water-type move (e.g. due to Water Absorb or Wonder Guard). If multiple Pokémon each holding an Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss are hit by a Water-type move at once, each hit Pokémon will consume their Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss before Symbiosis transfers any item (including these items).

Title: Cell Battery

The Cell Battery (Japanese: じゅうでんち Charge Battery) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It raises the holder's Attack when it is hit by a damaging Electric-type move. If the holder is hit by an Electric-type damaging move, it consumes the Cell Battery and its Attack is increased by one stage. It does not activate if the holder already has +6 Attack stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Attack stat stages). It does not activate if the holder is protected from or unaffected by the Electric-type move (e.g. due to Motor Drive or being Ground-type). If multiple Pokémon each holding a Cell Battery are hit by an Electric-type move at once, each hit Pokémon will consume its Cell Battery before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Cell Batteries).

Title: Eject Button

The Eject Button (Japanese: だっしゅつボタン Break-Out Button) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation V. It switches out the holder if it is hit by a damaging move. If the holder is hit by a damaging move and does not faint, it consumes the Eject Button and is immediately switched out for a Pokémon of its Trainer's choice. It does not activate if the holder is a wild Pokémon or its Trainer has no Pokémon to switch in. The Eject Button will not activate if a Pokémon's substitute takes the hit instead. If a move is affected by the effect of Sheer Force, that move will not activate the Eject Button. The Eject Button activates after the last strike of a multistrike move. If multiple Pokémon, each holding an Eject Button, are hit by a single attack, only the fastest holder's held Eject Button will activate. Suction Cups, trapping moves, Abilities, and Dynamax do not prevent a Pokémon being switched out by the Eject Button. The Eject Button will be removed from the holder by Knock Off, Thief, Covet, or Magician before it has the opportunity to activate. If a Pokémon steals an Eject Button due to Pickpocket, that Eject Button cannot activate for that same attack. If a Pokémon holding an Eject Button is hit by Dragon Tail or Circle Throw, it is forced to switch out or flee before its held Eject Button has the opportunity to activate. If U-turn or Volt Switch causes a Pokémon's held Eject Button to activate, the Pokémon that used the move is not switched out. If a Pokémon with Emergency Exit or Wimp Out holds an Eject Button, the Eject Button activates before the Ability has the opportunity to. The Eject Button is involved in the Symbiosis Eject Button glitch. If an ally's Eject Button is consumed, Symbiosis will activate and transfer an item to that ally after it switches out but before its replacement is sent out. Any item transferred in response to an Eject Button activating cannot activate at this time. The Eject Button activating can no longer trigger Symbiosis. In Pokémon UNITE, the Eject Button is a battle item unlocked at Trainer Level 11. It can be used to teleport to a set distance away and has 70s cooldown.

Title: Fire Gem

The Fire Gem (Japanese: ほのおのジュエル Flame Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Fire-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Fire Gem. Fire Pledge will never consume a Fire Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Fire-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use. A Fire Gem appeared in Climbing the Tower of Success! as one of the search items for the Wishing Bell Festival scavenger hunt.

Title: Water Gem

The Water Gem (Japanese: みずのジュエル Water Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Water-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Water Gem. Water Pledge will never consume a Water Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Water-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Electric Gem

The Electric Gem (Japanese: でんきのジュエル Electric Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Electric-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding an Electric Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Electric-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Grass Gem

The Grass Gem (Japanese: くさのジュエル Grass Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Grass-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Grass Gem. Grass Pledge will never consume a Grass Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Grass-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Ice Gem

The Ice Gem (Japanese: こおりのジュエル Ice Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Ice-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding an Ice Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Ice-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Fighting Gem

The Fighting Gem (Japanese: かくとうジュエル Fighting Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Fighting-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Fighting Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Fighting-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Poison Gem

The Poison Gem (Japanese: どくのジュエル Poison Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Poison-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Poison Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Poison-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Ground Gem

The Ground Gem (Japanese: じめんのジュエル Ground Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Ground-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Ground Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Ground-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Flying Gem

The Flying Gem (Japanese: ひこうのジュエル Flying Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Flying-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Flying Gem. Acrobatics will be counted as the user not holding an item and thus receive double base power (in addition to the power increase from the Gem) if the user consumes a Flying Gem before executing it. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Flying-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Psychic Gem

The Psychic Gem (Japanese: エスパージュエル Esper Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Psychic-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Psychic Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Psychic-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Bug Gem

The Bug Gem (Japanese: むしのジュエル Bug Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Bug-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Bug-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Rock Gem

The Rock Gem (Japanese: いわのジュエル Rock Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Rock-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Rock Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Rock-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Ghost Gem

The Ghost Gem (Japanese: ゴーストジュエル Ghost Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onward. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Ghost-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Ghost Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Ghost-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Dark Gem

The Dark Gem (Japanese: あくのジュエル Evil Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Dark-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Dark Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Dark-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Steel Gem

The Steel Gem (Japanese: はがねのジュエル Steel Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Steel-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Steel Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Steel-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use.

Title: Cover Fossil

The Cover Fossil (Japanese: ふたのカセキ Cover Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation V that can be regenerated into Tirtouga. It is the counterpart of the Plume Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Cover Fossil can be regenerated into a Tirtouga. A Cover Fossil appeared in A Restoration Confrontation! Part 1. It was found by Ferris and later stolen by Team Rocket, who—by using the stolen data from Professor Juniper and Fennel's fossil resurrection machine and the stones stolen from the Chargestone Cave—managed to revive it into a Tirtouga. It evolved into a Carracosta in the next episode and was eventually returned back to its own time through a time gate at Twist Mountain. The Cover Fossil was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Noble Victories expansion, first released in the Japanese Red Collection. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal a Tirtouga they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck.cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Main article: Antique Cover Fossil (Stellar Crown 129) The Scarlet & Violet Series saw the release of Antique Cover Fossil in the Stellar Crown expansion, first released in the Japanese Stellar Miracle expansion. This card is unlike the previous Cover Fossil card and more in line with other Item cards depicting Fossils, allowing the player to play it onto the Bench as if it were a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has an Ability that prevents all effects of attacks used by the opponent's Pokémon done to it. Unidentified Fossil cards are Fossil Trainer cards which become Basic Pokémon. While they do not feature a Cover Fossil, they can still be used to evolve into certain Tirtouga. The Cover Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Plume Fossil

The Plume Fossil (Japanese: はねのカセキ Feather Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation V that can be regenerated into Archen. It is the counterpart of the Cover Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Plume Fossil can be regenerated into an Archen. A Plume Fossil appeared in Archeops In The Modern World!, which had been given to Professor Juniper and Fennel by Lenora. They successfully resurrected a female Archen from the Fossil using Musharna's dream energy. With the help of Ash and his Tranquill, Archen learned how to fly and then evolved into Archeops. Kiawe found a Plume Fossil in Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, during the Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up for Ash and his classmates by Olivia. A Plume Fossil also appeared on a holographic screen during Sophocles's first hunt for treasure. The Plume Fossil was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Noble Victories expansion, first released in the Japanese Red Collection. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal an Archen they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Main article: Antique Plume Fossil (White Flare 79) The Scarlet & Violet Series saw the release of Antique Plume Fossil in the White Flare expansion, first released in the Japanese expansion with the same name. This card is unlike the previous Plume Fossil card and more in line with other Item cards depicting Fossils, allowing the player to play it onto the Bench as if it were a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has an Ability that prevents all damage done to it by attacks used by the opponent's Pokémon if it is on the Bench. Unidentified Fossil cards are Fossil Trainer cards which become Basic Pokémon. While they do not feature a Plume Fossil, they can still be used to evolve into certain Archen. The Plume Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. While the item description for the Plume Fossil states the fossil came from a "Pokémon that (once) flew/lived in the sky", the Backpacker who gives away the fossils in Pokémon Black and White mentions that the Plume Fossil is from a Pokémon that lived in an ancient forest, but could not fly. Considering what is known about the Archaeopteryx genus, this may be intentional to some degree.

Title: Liberty Pass

The Liberty Pass (Japanese: リバティチケット Liberty Ticket) is an event-exclusive Key Item that allows a player to travel to Liberty Garden where they will meet Victini in Pokémon Black and White. Once the Liberty Pass is obtained, the player must take it to Liberty Pier, the westernmost pier of the Castelia City harbor. The captain of the boat docked here will recognize the Liberty Pass, and volunteer to take the player to Liberty Garden. If the player does not have the Liberty Pass, the vessel remains stationary. The Liberty Pass was distributed wirelessly at the release of Black and White in all geographic regions and in some retail outlets outside of Japan. The release length differs between countries. A pair of Liberty Passes appeared in At Liberty on Liberty Garden under the ownership of White. She and Black used them to board a ship from Castelia City to Liberty Garden in order to search for Victini per Professor Juniper's request.

Title: Pass Orb

A Pass Orb (Japanese: デルダマ Emerging Sphere) is a type of item introduced and used exclusively in Generation V. Pass Orbs can be used to purchase Pass Powers at the Entralink.

Title: Dream Ball

The Dream Ball (Japanese: ドリームボール Dream Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation V. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon in the Entree Forest. Starting from Generation VIII, it is more likely to succeed when used on a sleeping Pokémon. Pokémon transferred from the Pokémon Dream Radar are inside Dream Balls. In the Entree Forest, whenever the player interacts with a Pokémon, a special wild encounter begins in which the player can catch the Pokémon without battling it. During this encounter, a single Dream Ball appears in the player's Bag, in addition to their regular Poké Balls; if the player does not use the Dream Ball, it vanishes after the encounter. Any Poké Ball used in the Entree Forest will catch the wild Pokémon without fail. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If used on a sleeping Pokémon, it has a 4× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 1× modifier. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, if used on a drowsy Pokémon, it has a 4× catch rate modifier. Although some Pokémon can sleep in the overworld as part of their natural behavior, this will not trigger the Dream Ball's bonus. Despite being unobtainable as an item in Generation VI, a Dream Ball appears in the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City. Dream Ball was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Eevee Heroes subset before debuting in English in the Evolving Skies expansion, with artwork by Ryo Ueda. It allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon and put it onto their Bench, but only if the Dream Ball was taken as a face-down Prize card. Notably, this includes Evolution Pokémon that normally can only enter play through Evolution. The design of the Dream Ball is similar to the design of Musharna.

Title: Prop Case

The Prop Case (Japanese: グッズケース Goods Case) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. The Prop Case stores the Props used to dress up Pokémon for Pokémon Musicals. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, if the player Memory Linked with Black or White, the Prop Case will come prepackaged with the Props obtained in that linked game. The Prop Case, along with the other elements and concept of the Pokémon Musical, was invented by White, and was first introduced in To Make a Musical. In Special Delivery, the truck delivering the 200 Prop Cases meant to be distributed during the Pokémon Musical opening got stuck in traffic behind the lifted Driftveil Drawbridge. As such, White asked Skyla to help, and with her plane, the Prop Cases made it to Nimbasa City in time.

Title: Dragon Skull

The Dragon Skull (Japanese: ドラゴンのホネ Dragon Bone) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. It is the skull of a Dragon-type Pokémon that belongs to the Nacrene Museum, and seems to be from a Dragonite. Team Plasma steals this Dragon Skull from Nacrene Museum after the player earns their Basic Badge. The player confronts the culprit, a Team Plasma Grunt at the far end of Pinwheel Forest, and retrieves the skull, and immediately returns it to Lenora. Because the player obtains and gives away the skull in the same cutscene, they are not able to view it in their Bag. In Pokémon Adventures, instead of merely the skull, Team Plasma stole the entire Dragon Fossil in The Mystery of the Missing Fossil, along with several other artifacts from the Nacrene Museum. Black agreed to help find the thieves, and, during his pursuit of the stolen items, encountered Burgh, whom Lenora had also requested to help solve the case. The two soon found the Dragon Fossil at the outskirts of Pinwheel Forest, where it, to their surprise, then began attacking them. Black soon figured out that the ones responsible for the theft were a group of Team Plasma Grunts and Gorm of the Seven Sages, and they were using Gorm's Cofagrigus to control the skeleton. With Burgh's help, Black was able to defeat Cofagrigus. Upon realizing that the skeleton wasn't related to the Legendary Pokémon they were after, Team Plasma retreated, allowing the Dragon Fossil and the other stolen artifacts to be safely returned to the Nacrene Museum. In Pokémon X and Y, a Dragon Skull can be seen on a shelf in the Ambrette Town Fossil Lab.

Title: Balm Mushroom

The Balm Mushroom (Japanese: かおるキノコ Fragrant Mushroom), formatted BalmMushroom prior to Generation VI, is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the BalmMushroom can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $25000. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Balm Mushroom can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $25,000. The Balm Mushroom serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. A Balm Mushroom is an ingredient that can be used in cooking to attract wild Pokémon in Pokémon Quest. It is categorized as a Mushroom. Balm Mushroom is a possible ingredient that can be obtained by completing expeditions. Balm Mushrooms are most commonly found in the areas Parched Peak and Farside Fjord. They can also be obtained randomly by recycling Power Stones. In Food Fit for a Kingambit!, Balm Mushrooms were served as part of the Anything Goes Café's House Specials.

Title: Big Nugget

The Big Nugget (Japanese: でかいきんのたま Giant Gold Orb) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. It is a larger and more valuable version of the Nugget. In the Generation V games, the Big Nugget can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $30000. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, the player can purchase a Big Nugget from Office Worker Royce for $5,000 in Po Town daily. The Big Nugget serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. Similarly to the Nugget's Japanese name きんのたま kin no tama ("golden ball") being a slang term for testicles in Japanese; the Big Nugget's Japanese name adds でかい dekai; literally making it a gigantic testicle. Starting from Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Big Nugget is tied with the Iron Ball for granting Fling its highest possible base power.

Title: Pearl String

The Pearl String (Japanese: おだんごしんじゅ Pearl Dango) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Pearl String can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $25000. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Pearl String can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $27,500. The Pearl String serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Pearl String has been featured on an illustration for the Pokémon Diving merchandise line that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Comet Shard

The Comet Shard (Japanese: すいせいのかけら Comet Shard) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Comet Shard can be sold to the ore maniac inside the Icirrus City Pokémon Center for $60000. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Comet Shard can be sold to the valuable item buyer in Stow-on-Side for $30,000. The Comet Shard serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. In the dub of Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, the Star Piece that Sophocles found during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt was incorrectly referred to as a Comet Shard.

Title: Relic Copper

The Relic Copper (Japanese: こだいのどうか Ancient Bronze Coin) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Copper can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $1000. The Relic Copper serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Relic Silver

The Relic Silver (Japanese: こだいのぎんか Ancient Silver Coin) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Silver can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $5000. The Relic Silver serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Relic Gold

The Relic Gold (Japanese: こだいのきんか Ancient Gold Coin) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Gold can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $10000. The Relic Gold serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Relic Vase

The Relic Vase (Japanese: こだいのツボ Ancient Vase) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Vase can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $50000. The Relic Vase serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Relic Band

The Relic Band (Japanese: こだいのうでわ Ancient Bracelet) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Band can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $100000. The Relic Band serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Relic Statue

The Relic Statue (Japanese: こだいのせきぞう Ancient Statue) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Statue can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $200000. The Relic Statue serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Relic Crown

Ancient Crown redirects here. For the item in the Mystery Dungeon series, see Treasure Collection → Crown. The Relic Crown (Japanese: こだいのおうかん Ancient Crown) is a valuable item introduced in Generation V. In the Generation V games, the Relic Crown can be sold to the billionaire maniac in Undella Town for $300000. The Relic Crown serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Relic Crown bears resemblance to the crown that Ghetsis places on N's head during the game intro of Pokémon Black and White.

Title: Casteliacone

The Casteliacone (Japanese: ヒウンアイス Hiun Ice Cream) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation V. It is a local specialty of Castelia City and cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. In the Generation V games, the Casteliacone can be sold to the gourmet maniac on Route 5 for $2000. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the player can purchase a Casteliacone from a Fairy Tale Girl for $200 in Mauville City once if the player has a Regice in the party. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, if held by a nicknamed Regice in the party, along with Regirock and Registeel, allows to spawn Regigigas in Island Cave, during the daytime after defeating/catching Groudon/Kyogre. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Casteliacones can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. They are unlocked at Trainer Rank 60 and cost 92,874 to unlock. Casteliacones were first mentioned in A Venipede Stampede!. While being in Castelia City, Iris accidentally led the group to the stand selling the treat, where they found out that it was closed. The same stand was referred to again in Climbing the Tower of Success!, when Ash, his friends, and Stephan were trying to solve a quiz at the Wishing Bell Festival. Thankfully, Cilan remembered having eaten a Casteliacone in the past, allowing them to figure out the right answer. Casteliacones were also sold at the Vertress Conference, as seen in Lost at the League! and A Unova League Evolution!. In the latter episode, Bianca bought several cones from an ice cream stand and offered some for Ash and his friends. In A Close Call... Practically!, Casteliacones were sold by a disguised Team Rocket during Ash and Goh's visit to Castelia City. In Errand Endurance!, Team Rocket sent Pelipper to get them a Casteliacone to go with their apple pie. Fearing that the absent-minded Water Bird Pokémon couldn't fulfill the errand without aid, the trio disguised themselves as ice cream vendors and gave Pelipper the ice cream themselves before returning to their base. However, as soon as the ice cream had arrived, both it and the pie were eaten by Morpeko. In The Fiery Road to Mastership!, James's Morpeko was seen eating some Casteliacones. In Big City Battles, White gave Black a box of Casteliacones to use in battle. A Casteliacone is seen on the Next Destinies Vanillite card. The Casteliacone has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. The Casteliacone's appearance in its Pokémon Global Link artwork and Pokémon Journeys: The Series resembles Vanillite.

Title: Light Stone

The Light Stone (Japanese: ライトストーン Light Stone) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the two Dragon Stones, being Reshiram in its dormant form. It summons Reshiram to assist the player against N and Zekrom at N's Castle during the storyline of Pokémon Black. It summons Reshiram at the top of Dragonspiral Tower during the post-game of Pokémon White 2. The Light Stone appears in Learn with Pokémon: Typing Adventure. The Light Stone debuted in Black—Victini and Reshiram and White—Victini and Zekrom. As the embodiment of Reshiram, the Light Stone can glow red from Reshiram's fire. It first appeared under the ownership of the Hero of Truth, as the hibernating form of the fatigued dragon Pokémon. The stone was hidden below the Sword of the Vale by the hero. In Black—Victini and Reshiram, Ash awakened Reshiram from the Light Stone to fight Damon's Zekrom; in White—Victini and Zekrom, Damon was the one to find and use the Light Stone so he could recruit Reshiram to his cause. The Light Stone made its animated series debut in Ash and N: A Clash of Ideals!, where it was found in the White Ruins by Cedric Juniper. N soon snatched it away, claiming that he wanted to ask Reshiram why it had attacked Team Plasma's castle years before. Ash tried to chase after him, but got stuck in a sinkhole. N tried to help him, but ended up falling down the same hole with Ash. Using Pikachu, Pignite, Krookodile, and Charizard, Ash was able to dig them a way back to the surface, where Team Plasma had started an attack on the White Ruins, intending to get the Light Stone for themselves. When Colress used his Pokémon Control Device on Pikachu, forcing it to attack Ash and his friends, N surrendered the Light Stone to Team Plasma in exchange for Ash's safety. Ghetsis then proceeded to conduct a ritual to awaken Reshiram, successfully restoring the Vast White Pokémon to its true form. The Light Stone briefly appeared in The King Returns, where N's Reshiram was forced to revert into it by Kyurem. The Light Stone was then immediately absorbed by Kyurem, turning it into White Kyurem. The Light Stone appeared in The Plan, where it was shown to be in Hilda's possession. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder The Light Stone appeared in Get the Legendary Pokémon!, where Shin and Alder found it at the Relic Castle. After an apparent betrayal by Alder, which was soon revealed to be merely a test to see if Shin was worthy for the Light Stone to accept him as the Hero of Fire, the stone was revived into Reshiram. Shin then flew off with Reshiram to confront N and Zekrom at N's Castle. The Light Stone was held at the Nacrene Gym, although its presence there wasn't revealed until Finding Truth. After the Dark Stone was stolen by Team Plasma, Brycen, having noticed the Light Stone rolling out of its safe towards Black, and thus acknowledging him as the Hero of Truth, agreed with Drayden to entrust the stone to Black, which he did in A Cold Reception, after being beaten by Black in a Gym battle. In True Friends, during the Pokémon League tournament, Black's rage over Team Plasma having convinced Cheren to side with their beliefs caused the Light Stone to be awakened into Reshiram. He then proceeded to use Reshiram to battle N's Zekrom, eventually emerging victorious. After the battle was over and Team Plasma had been defeated, Reshiram started reverting into its stone form once again. Ghetsis, wanting to get revenge on Black for foiling his plans, used Colress's Beheeyem to push Black closer to the forming stone, causing him to get sucked into it as well. The Light Stone then floated away before White could grab it. In Flying Ship, the Light Stone was seen flying towards the Unova region alongside N and Zekrom, having reacted to the awakening of Kyurem. Fennel later sent White to search for the stone at the Entralink, where she was able to find it. N, having followed the stone, told White that the stone had landed to the Entralink on purpose for her to find. In Dream World, the inside of the Light Stone was revealed to be connected to the Pokémon Dream World. After White had been briefly sucked into the Stone and reunited with Black, Reshiram emerged from the Stone, freeing both Black and White from it in the process. In Giant Chasm, Kyurem used the power of the DNA Splicers to force Reshiram to revert into the Light Stone again before absorbing it, turning into White Kyurem. In The Final Battle, Kyurem separated itself from the Light Stone, which immediately transformed back into Reshiram. In Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire episode A Different Kind of Misty!, an artifact called the "Light Stone" plays a major role. However, it has no relation to Reshiram's stone.

Title: Dark Stone

The Dark Stone (Japanese: ダークストーン Dark Stone) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the two Dragon Stones, being Zekrom in its dormant form. It summons Zekrom to assist the player against N and Reshiram at N's Castle during the storyline of Pokémon White. It summons Zekrom at the top of Dragonspiral Tower during the post-game of Pokémon Black 2. The Dark Stone appears in Learn with Pokémon: Typing Adventure. The Dark Stone appeared in Black—Victini and Reshiram and White—Victini and Zekrom. As the embodiment of Zekrom, the Dark Stone can glow blue from Zekrom's electricity. It first appeared under the ownership of the Hero of Ideals, as the hibernating form of the fatigued dragon Pokémon. The stone was hidden below the Sword of the Vale by the hero. In White—Victini and Zekrom, Ash awakened Zekrom from the Dark Stone to fight Damon's Reshiram; in Black—Victini and Reshiram, Damon was the one who found and awakened the Dark Stone so he could recruit Zekrom to his cause. An item called the "Golden Dark Stone" appeared in Explorers of the Hero's Ruin!, where it was hidden in the Hero's Ruin. It was sought by Cedric Juniper. Unlike the Dark Stone, this item was golden instead of black, and merely summons Zekrom instead of being its dormant form. The Dark Stone appeared in a flashback in The Plan, where N was shown awakening Zekrom from it at Dragonspiral Tower. The Dark Stone initially resided at the Desert Resort, where it was found and excavated by Clay and his mining team in Lights, Camera...Action!. After investigating the stone, he felt worried and called Lenora to come and investigate them with her expertise on ancient artifacts. As such, Lenora took the stone to her museum. Later, she called Drayden to help her investigate the stone, which helped them realize that it was actually Zekrom. The Dark Stone was sought out by Team Plasma, who, led by the Shadow Triad, attacked the Nacrene Gym in The Battle Within in order to obtain the artifact. Although the raid failed to turn up the stone, Ghetsis managed to trick Black into revealing the entrance to the secret room where the Dark Stone was hidden. In Finding Truth, the stone was delivered to N at the Dragonspiral Tower, where he awakened Zekrom from it and converted it to his side to become the Hero of Ideals. In Abyssal Ruins, after Ghetsis had obtained the DNA Splicers, he ordered Kyurem to absorb Zekrom, turning both Zekrom and N on its back into the Dark Stone. Although the stone was subsequently absorbed by Kyurem, N was soon expelled from it. In Giant Chasm, Kyurem ejected the Dark Stone from its body in order to absorb Reshiram instead. Zekrom reemerged from the Dark Stone soon afterwards.

Title: Xtransceiver

This article is about the Key Item in the Generation V games. For the segment at the end of Japanese episodes of Pokémon the Series: Black & White, see Professor Oak's Pokémon Live Caster. The Xtransceiver (Japanese: ライブキャスター Live Caster) is a Key Item in Generation V. Introduced in Pokémon Black and White, it has also made appearances in the spin-off media. As stated by the player's mother, the "X" in Xtransceiver is pronounced as "cross," making the complete name "cross-transceiver." The player obtains their Xtransceiver early in the game from their mom. In the context of the game, it is a powerful communication tool, and allows the user to contact other Trainers; however, the player can only use it to talk to other players. At various points in the plot, the player will receive instructions from other characters to advance the storyline. The player's mother, Bianca, Cheren, and Professor Juniper all call the player at various points in the game. Using the C-Gear's wireless feature, the Xtransceiver can be used to communicate with other real-life players nearby. Up to four players can talk to each other using a radio-like system, where players record an audio message which transmits to the other players after some time. The audio's pitch can be tuned with a slider to be higher or lower prior to recording. If they have a Nintendo DSi, Nintendo DSi XL, Nintendo 3DS, or Nintendo 3DS XL, they also have the option to see each other with the console's built-in camera. Players can also draw over their video using the touchscreen using a pen tool or place stickers, and the color of the pen and stickers can be changed with a dropper tool. Players can pause their video to keep a still frame. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the Xtransceiver takes on a function like the calling functions of the Pokégear and PokéNav, allowing the player to call other people in-game through the Xtransceiver. However, only plot-relevant characters, in addition to either Curtis or Yancy, can be registered, although the latter two cannot be called as freely as the others. The player's mom is registered by default. Cheren, Bianca, and Professor Juniper are registered after defeating the Aspertia Gym. Hugh is registered after sailing from Virbank City to Castelia City. Curtis or Yancy can be registered in Nimbasa City after reaching certain requirements. Players can interact with other real-life players via local wireless like in Black and White, but the Xtransceiver could also be used over the internet by selecting it at the Global Terminal in a Pokémon Center. It cannot be used over the internet if selected from the Bag. In addition to the audio and video features, two minigames can be played: Balloon Catch and Balloon Ka-Boom! Both games involve balloons that display faces. If the player uses the Nintendo DSi, Nintendo DSi XL, Nintendo 3DS, or Nintendo 3DS XL, the player's actual face can be used instead of the default images. These games can only be played via local wireless. In Balloon Catch, players must catch their balloons as they float upward on the touchscreen. Players begin by taking three pictures of their face; one of a neutral expression, one of a smile, and one of a "troubled" look. Players will then have 60 seconds to tap as many balloons displaying their own face as they can. They will earn two points for tapping any of their balloons, and lose one point by tapping a balloon displaying their opponent's face. In the last 20 seconds of the game, balloons will appear faster and more frequently on the touchscreen, and points to be earned are doubled. All balloons show neutral faces at first. When a player taps their balloon, their smiling face will be shown. When tapping an opponent's balloon, the troubled look will be displayed. The player with the highest point total will win. If there is a tie, multiple players can be declared the victor. In Balloon Ka-Boom!, players pump balloons by alternately tapping the bottom corners of the screen until they pop. To earn the most points, they must pop as many balloons as possible. Players begin by taking photos of their face showing a neutral expression, a smile, and a "surprised" look. Each balloon will display the photos taken by the player, then those taken by their opponents after the first one is popped. As the balloons become inflated, their expressions will change in the order the photos were taken. Players are able to see their opponents' balloons behind theirs. In the first 40 seconds of the game, it takes 30 taps to pop a balloon. During the Final Sprint, which takes place during the remaining 20 seconds, it only takes 18 taps to pop each balloon. Players will earn five points each time they pop a balloon. The player with the highest point total will win. In the event of a tie, multiple players can be declared the victor. Trip was the first person seen with a Xtransceiver in Pokémon the Series. It first appeared in A Rival Battle for Club Champ!, where Ash contacted Trip on a built-in Xtransceiver in Luxuria Town's Battle Club computer. It contacted Trip and Ash asked him for a battle. In Minccino—Neat and Tidy!, Bianca was also shown to have a Xtransceiver, which she used to contact Professor Juniper. Dawn was also revealed to own one in the place of her Pokétch in Piplup, Pansage, and a Meeting of the Times!, although she returned back to using her Pokétch prior to Nightfall? Nightmares!. Also, in the Japanese version of Pokémon the Series: Black & White, there is a segment called Professor Oak's Pokémon Live Caster, a reference to the Japanese name of the Xtransceiver. The Xtransceiver made its first appearance in Lights, Camera...Action!, where White was filming a commercial about it. The commercial shooting was interrupted when a wild Galvantula attacked the camera crew, but Black managed to defeat it. In Their First Gym Battle, Black gave a Xtransceiver each to Cheren and Bianca after they met White for the first time. However, after Black and White left, Bianca realized that she forgot to ask for Black's number. Xtransceiver was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era). First released in the Japanese Red Collection, it later debuted in English in the Noble Victories expansion, with both prints featuring an illustration by Ryo Ueda. Xtransceiver allows the player to flip a coin, and if is heads, add a Supporter card from their deck to their hand; the deck is shuffled afterwards. The Xtransceiver has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods. In Pokémon Black and White, Xtransceivers are blue for males and pink for females. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, they are red for males and yellow for females. Hugh has a light purple Xtransceiver. The watchband of the Xtransceiver is black except for Bianca and Rosa, whose watchbands are white. In Pokémon Black and White, when prefixed with the indefinite article, this item is referred to as "an Xtransceiver". In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, these instances are corrected to "a Xtransceiver", matching the pronunciation given in-game. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the player cannot use the calling function while aboard the Plasma Frigate, and characters who are on the ship cannot be called from outside. The Holo Caster from Pokémon X and Y works similarly to this item and has a similar Japanese name.

Title: Dragon Gem

The Dragon Gem (Japanese: ドラゴンジュエル Dragon Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is an unobtainable held item in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Dragon-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Dragon Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Dragon-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use. A Dragon Gem appeared in A Connoisseur's Revenge!, where it was offered to Iris and her Axew by a Poké Mart clerk.

Title: Normal Gem

The Normal Gem (Japanese: ノーマルジュエル Normal Jewel) is a type of held item introduced in Generation V. It is one of the Gems and is the only obtainable Gem in Generation VI onwards. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Normal-type move used by 50%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Normal Gem. Struggle will never consume a Normal Gem. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Normal-type move used by 30% (approximated as a multiplier of 5325/4096 from Generation V to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet), and is consumed after use. Normal Gem does not increase the damage or get consumed if the Normal move has its type changed by some effect (e.g. Pixilate, Ion Deluge).

Title: Medal Box

The Medal Box (Japanese: メダルボックス Medal Box) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. The Medal Box allows the player to collect Medals, and check which ones they have obtained by using it in the Bag.

Title: Permit

The Permit (Japanese: きょかしょう License) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. The Permit allows the player to travel to the Nature Preserve from the airport in Mistralton City.

Title: Oval Charm

The Oval Charm (Japanese: まるいおまもり Round Charm) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2. It increases the chance of an Egg being found at Pokémon Day Care or Pokémon Nursery. The Oval Charm increases the chance of an Egg being found at Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery. The chance varies as follows, depending on what the chance would normally be. (It does not increase the chance of an Egg appearing if Eggs couldn't normally appear.) Even though this item is not obtainable in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, its description has been changed to reflect picnics as the new method of breeding.

Title: Shiny Charm

The Shiny Charm (Japanese: ひかるおまもり Shining Charm) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2. It increases the chance of encountering Shiny Pokémon. If the Shiny Charm is in the player's Bag, it increases the chance of encountering Shiny Pokémon by generating additional personality values to attempt to find one that is Shiny. This stacks with most other modifiers which increase the Shiny encounter rate, such as the Masuda method. It has no effect on Pokémon obtained via NPCs from in-game trades, gifts, or from Event Pokémon obtained via Mystery Gift. The Shiny Charm works both in the wild (including static encounters, such as Legendary Pokémon) and via breeding. It generates two extra personality values, effectively resulting in a tripled chance to find Shiny Pokémon compared to the base chance; from 1/8192 to approximately 3/8192 (roughly 1/2731). Starting in Generation VI, the base encounter rate for Shiny Pokémon was increased from 1/8192 to 1/4096. As such, the Shiny Charm's two extra rerolls now increase the chance of encountering a Shiny Pokémon from 1/4096 to approximately 3/4096 (roughly 1/1365). In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the following types of encounters are unaffected by the Shiny Charm: Scripted encounters such as the Glimwood Tangle Impidimp. Due to a bug, when breeding, if any personality value rerolls are applied, (such as the additional shiny rolls provided via the Masuda method or Shiny Charm), the initial roll to generate a personality value is skipped. The result is that when breeding using the Shiny Charm alone, it only provides 2 total rolls for the personality value, meaning there is approximately a 2/4096 (equal to 1/2048) chance of hatching a Shiny Pokémon. This is a reduction from prior generations where the initial roll and both rerolls are accounted for, which would provide a shiny rate of 3/4096, (approximately 1/1365). However, in Generation VIII, due to the Masuda method providing one more reroll than in previous generations, the chance of hatching a Shiny Pokémon when using both the Shiny Charm and Masuda method is unchanged, providing 8 total rolls, (instead of the intended 9), for a Shiny rate of 8/4096 (equal to 1/512) as usual (instead of the intended 9/4096 (equal to 1/455)). In Dynamax Adventures, Pokémon normally have a 1/300 chance of being Shiny, (this is determined at the end of the activity where you select a Pokémon to keep from the 4 encounters, rather than when the Pokémon is encountered during the activity, as all Pokémon appear non-Shiny during a Dynamax Adventure). With the Shiny Charm, this chance is changed to exactly 3/300, (effectively 1/100). In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl only, the Shiny Charm only affects breeding. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Shiny Charm provides three extra rerolls, making the chance to encounter a Shiny Pokémon roughly 1/1024. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet the following types of encounters are unaffected by the Shiny Charm: Other non-Tera fixed symbol encounters (also referred to as Wanderers). In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the Shiny Charm provides three extra rerolls. Despite the Shiny Charm only having an effect on the chances of obtaining a Shiny Pokémon via breeding in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the item description erroneously states that it will "increase the chance of finding a Shiny Pokémon in the wild". This text is identical to prior games, (excluding Generation V), and the internal code explicitly disables the Shiny Charm for other encounter types. This heavily implies the item is functioning as intended, with the item description having been copied verbatim being a developer oversight.

Title: Plasma Card

The Plasma Card (Japanese: プラズマカード Plasma Card) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. The Plasma Card is one of the things the player needs to access restricted areas of the Plasma Frigate.

Title: Grubby Hanky

The Grubby Hanky (Japanese: よごれたハンカチ Dirty Handkerchief) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. On a Thursday, this misplaced handkerchief can be returned to its owner, a regular customer of Café Warehouse with a Patrat. The player will receive a Fluffy Tail as a token of appreciation if they return on a Sunday.

Title: Colress Machine

The Colress Machine (Japanese: アクロママシーン Achroma Machine), shortened to Colress MCHN in the Generation V games, is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. It is one of Colress's inventions. The Colress Machine forcibly awakens sleeping Pokémon. The player uses this device to awaken a sleeping wild Crustle in Seaside Cave that is blocking the way to where Team Plasma docked the Plasma Frigate after freezing Opelucid City. The awakened Crustle will lash out at the player, forcing them into a battle. The Colress Machine breaks after being used, consuming the item. Colress uses this device in a cutscene on Route 4 after the player has earned the Insect Badge to awaken the group of wild Crustle blocking the road, opening up the path. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, it is revealed that Colress Machine is a code name Colress designates to some of his inventions. The first two machines are Colress Machine No. 1198 (Japanese: アクロママシーン １１９８号 Achroma Machine No. 1198) and Colress Machine No. 1199 (Japanese: アクロママシーン １１９９号 Achroma Machine No. 1199), also known as the N-Solarizer and N-Lunarizer, respectively. Colress co-developed these machines with the Ultra Recon Squad in an effort to control Necrozma's power. In Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon's Episode RR, Colress uses another machine, Colress Machine No. 1102 (Japanese: アクロママシーン １１０２号 Achroma Machine No. 1102), to return Ghetsis back to the world he came from, saving Lillie in the process. After the player defeats Giovanni, Colress is able to use the machine to undo Team Rainbow Rocket's changes to Lusamine's mansion. Colress begun the Colress Machine's development two years before the arc, but some members of Team Plasma opposed his work, as it ran contrary to their beliefs. As such, they secretly developed a method to stop the machine's influence on Pokémon, and the memory card containing that data was entrusted to a ten-year-old girl. The Colress Machine first appeared in Flying Type and Innocent Scientist, where Colress used it to control Genesect into attacking Blake and Looker. In Unforgettable Memories, Colress reported favorable results from his first test of his invention. Later, in Colress Machine, Whitley's mother revealed that Colress's machine was capable of controlling Pokémon. In Therian Forme III, Colress used the machine to take control of Zinzolin's Kyurem and had it board the Plasma Frigate. In N Returns, Colress gave the machine to Ghetsis so that he could take Kyurem to face N and Zekrom. In Giant Chasm, Colress was revealed to have retrieved the machine, using it to have Kyurem attack the Unova Pokédex holders. However, Colress suddenly lost control of Kyurem, and Rood appeared, revealing that a machine to counter the Colress Machine's influence had been activated, preventing it from controlling Kyurem anymore. After several failed attempts to make Kyurem obey him, Colress accepted his failure and threw the machine away. In The Final Battle, Colress was revealed to have developed another, longer-range Colress Machine, which his Beheeyem had secretly been using to control the Red Genesect during his battle against Blake through voice commands he'd been relaying to it. Blake's Pokémon were able to destroy the machine, but as Colress had actually bonded with and personally raised the Red Genesect, it still remained under his control. The Colress Machine was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Black & White Series (the Japanese BW Era). First released in the Plasma Storm expansion, it was reprinted in the Japanese Team Plasma's Powered Half Deck and Team Plasma Battle Gift Set Deck Kit. When the player plays it, they may search their deck for a Plasma Energy card and attach it to one of their Team Plasma Pokémon. Afterwards, the player shuffles their deck.

Title: Dropped Item

The Dropped Item (Japanese: わすれもの Forgotten Item) is a Key Item introduced in Generation V. There are two variations of this item: a red one that belongs to Curtis, and a yellow one that belongs to Yancy. The Dropped Item is a Xtransceiver that belongs to Curtis (if the player is female) or Yancy (if the player if male). Upon picking it up, the owner will call their Xtransceiver and explain the situation to the player. After receiving ten calls from Curtis or Yancy, they will finally get enough time off from their work as an idol to retrieve their Xtransceiver in front of the Rondez-View Ferris Wheel in Nimbasa City, where the player can return their Xtransceiver, and register their number.

Title: Reveal Glass

The Reveal Glass (Japanese: うつしかがみ Reflecting Mirror) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2. It allows the forces of nature to change between their Incarnate and Therian Formes. When used from the Bag on Tornadus, Thundurus, Landorus, or Enamorus, it switches that Pokémon between its Incarnate and Therian Formes. The Reveal Glass first appeared in Meloetta and the Undersea Temple!, where Team Rocket used Meloetta and its recorded song in order to open its seal inside the Abyssal Ruins. Giovanni then used it to summon and subsequently transform the forces of nature into their Therian Formes so that he could use them to take over Unova. In Unova's Survival Crisis!, when Ash's Pikachu freed Meloetta and sent the Team Rocket members flying with a powered-up Electro Ball caused by excess energy he absorbed from Thundurus earlier, Giovanni was struck by a beam of light from the Reveal Glass, causing him to become overwhelmed by its power and send the Legendary Pokémon on a rampage to destroy the region instead. Giovanni was eventually released from its possession when Jessie, James, and Meowth pushed him out of the spell circle he had been standing in. Following Team Rocket's subsequent retreat, Ridley used the Reveal Glass and Meloetta's song to calm down the rampaging Legendary Pokémon. Afterwards, the Reveal Glass was sealed away once again. The Reveal Glass was first hinted at in The Power of Dreams, where Hood Man realized that the forces of nature needed a special mirror to unlock their alternate forms. Team Plasma managed to obtain the Reveal Glass sometime before Legendary Tornadus, where a group of Team Plasma Grunts used it on Tornadus from a distance while attempting to capture Giallo. The Reveal Glass made its first proper appearance in Colress Machine, where it was shown to be in Colress's possession, using it to transform Thundurus and Landorus into their Therian Formes to fight Blake. In The Final Battle, Keldeo broke the Reveal Glass while trying to strike down Colress, causing the forces of nature to revert to their Incarnate Formes and allowing the Swords of Justice to defeat them. The Reveal Glass possesses the colors of the three forces of nature: the left side is blue for Thundurus, the right side is green for Tornadus, and the upper side is orange for Landorus. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, with the addition of Enamorus, it's revealed that the Reveal Glass used to have a handle, which is pink like Enamorus. In Generation V, the Reveal Glass will only work after the player has transferred Landorus from Pokémon Dream Radar. However, since doing this is required to obtain the Reveal Glass in the first place, this behavior can only be witnessed via cheating. The Reveal Glass may be based on the Demon Detecting Mirror, an item in Chinese mythology that could reflect the true identity of a yaoguai. Its design is based on the colors of Tornadus, Thundurus, and Landorus, with the Legends: Arceus design adding the colors of Enamorus.

Title: Weakness Policy

The Weakness Policy (Japanese: じゃくてんほけん Weakness Insurance) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VI. It raises the holder's Attack and Special Attack if it is hit by a supereffective move. If the holder is hit by a supereffective move, it consumes the Weakness Policy, and its Attack and Special Attack are increased by two stages each. A Pokémon with Contrary will have its Attack and Special Attack lowered by two stages instead unless it is hit by a supereffective move from a Pokémon with Mold Breaker. It does not activate if the holder already has both +6 Attack and +6 Special Attack stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has both -6 Attack and -6 Special Attack stat stages). It does not activate if the holder is protected from or unaffected by the supereffective move (e.g. due to Telepathy). Fixed-damage moves (such as Seismic Toss or Mirror Coat) will never activate the Weakness Policy, even if the move's type is super effective on the holder. If multiple Pokémon each holding a Weakness Policy are hit by a supereffective move at once, each hit Pokémon will consume its Weakness Policy before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Weakness Policies). In Pokémon UNITE, the Weakness Policy is a held item that grants Attack buff upon taking damage that lasts for 3s and can stack 4 times. The buff is equal to 2%/2.5%/3% at Grade 1, 10, and 20 respectively. This item also increases HP and Attack: 70 and 0 at Grade 1 respectively and 210 and 15 at Grade 30. Weakness Policy was introduced as an Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese XY Era. It was first released in the Japanese Gaia Volcano expansion before debuting in English in the Primal Clash expansion, where it was released as both a Regular card and a Secret card. When this Pokémon Tool card is attached to a Pokémon, that Pokémon has no Weakness. A set of 2 memos designed after the Weakness Policy and Blunder Policy has been released on December 12, 2024 and is exclusive to the Pokémon Center. A Weakness Policy is also featured on the Item Mania card sleeves.

Title: Assault Vest

The Assault Vest (Japanese: とつげきチョッキ Assault Vest) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. Raises the holder's Special Defense by 50%, but also prevents the holder from selecting any status moves except Me First. The Assault Vest only prevents the Pokémon from choosing status moves, not from using them; a Pokémon holding an Assault Vest can still be made to use status moves via Instruct or Dancer. If a Pokémon has selected a status move to use but obtains an Assault Vest before executing the move, such as by Trick from a Pokémon with Klutz, the move can still be executed successfully for that turn. If the holder can only select status moves (due to Encore, Torment, knowing no non-status moves that have PP, etc.), it is forced to use Struggle. Dynamax does not negate the effects of this item, so it prevents the use of Max Guard. Due to the removal of Struggle as a result of moves not using PP in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, if the holder of an Assault Vest only knows status moves, they will be unable to perform any moves and can only follow their Trainer or be switched out. In Pokémon UNITE, the Assault Vest is a held item that grants the user shield against Sp. Attack damage after leaving combat and increases their HP and Sp. Defense. After 5s out of combat, the user receives a shield equal to 9/12/15% of max HP, at grades 1, 10, and 20 respectively; this effect does not apply if the user has an existing Assault Vest shield. HP and Sp. Defense is increased by 18 and 0 at Grade 1, and by 270 and 51 at Grade 30. Assault Vest was introduced as an Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the Japanese XY BREAK Era. It was first released in the Japanese Red Flash expansion before debuting in English in the BREAKthrough expansion. When this Pokémon Tool card is attached to a Pokémon, any damage done to that Pokémon by attacks from an opponent's Pokémon that have any Special Energy attached to them is reduced by 40 (after applying Weakness and Resistance).

Title: Pixie Plate

The Pixie Plate (Japanese: せいれいプレート Spirit Plate) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. Boosts the power of the holder's Fairy-type moves by 20%. If the holder uses Judgment, it becomes a Fairy-type move. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Fairy-type form. Item manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Arceus a Plate or remove a Plate from Arceus. Multitype changes an Arceus holding this item to its Fairy-type form. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the Pixie Plate can used from the satchel on Arceus, changing it to the Fairy type. The Pixie Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "The Original One is in all things. The Original One is nowhere at all." The Pixie Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession. The Pixie Plate is the only Plate that is obtainable in Pokémon Sword and Shield, likely due to it being the only obtainable held item at the time that boosts the power of Fairy-type moves.

Title: Ability Capsule

The Ability Capsule (Japanese: とくせいカプセル Ability Capsule) is a medicine introduced in Generation VI. It changes a Pokémon's Ability. If used from the Bag, it changes a Pokémon's Ability from one of its standard Abilities to its other standard Ability. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use. The Ability Capsule can only be used on a Pokémon that belongs to a species that has two standard Abilities. For example, it can be used to change a Pidgey's Ability from Keen Eye to Tangled Feet (or vice versa), but it cannot be used on a Pikachu (whose standard Ability is always Static). It also cannot be used to change a Pokémon to or from its species' Hidden Ability. The Ability Capsule also cannot change the Ability of Zygarde (between Aura Break and Power Construct) or Greninja (between Torrent and Battle Bond). It also cannot change the Ability of Rockruff to or from Own Tempo (but can change Rockruff's Ability between Keen Eye and Vital Spirit). The Ability change is retained even if the Pokémon evolves, and the Ability slot provided by the Ability Capsule is maintained if the evolved form has a different standard Ability. For example, a Lillipup with the Ability Pickup evolves into a Herdier (which evolves into a Stoutland) with the Ability Sand Rush, but if Lillipup's Ability is changed to Vital Spirit with an Ability Capsule, it will have the Ability Intimidate after Evolution. Fling fails if the user is holding an Ability Capsule.

Title: Whipped Dream

The Whipped Dream (Japanese: ホイップポップ Whipped Pop) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It allows Swirlix to evolve into Slurpuff. Causes Swirlix to evolve into Slurpuff when traded while holding it. This consumes the Whipped Dream.

Title: Sachet

The Sachet (Japanese: においぶくろ Sachet) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It allows Spritzee to evolve into Aromatisse. Causes Spritzee to evolve into Aromatisse when traded while holding it. This consumes the Sachet.

Title: Luminous Moss

The Luminous Moss (Japanese: ひかりごけ Luminous Moss) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It raises the holder's Special Defense when it is hit by a damaging Water-type move. If the holder is hit by a Water-type damaging move, it consumes the Luminous Moss and its Special Defense is increased by one stage. It does not activate if the holder already has +6 Special Defense stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Special Defense stat stages). It does not activate if the holder is protected from or unaffected by the Water-type move (e.g. due to Water Absorb or Wonder Guard). If multiple Pokémon each holding an Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss are hit by a Water-type move at once, each hit Pokémon will consume their Absorb Bulb or Luminous Moss before Symbiosis transfers any item (including these items).

Title: Snowball

The Snowball (Japanese: ゆきだま Snowball) is an item introduced in Generation VI. If the holder is hit by a Ice-type damaging move, it consumes the Snowball and its Attack is increased by one stage. It does not activate if the holder already has +6 Attack stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Attack stat stages). It does not activate if the holder is protected from or unaffected by the Ice-type move (e.g. due to Telepathy or Wonder Guard). If multiple Pokémon each holding a Snowball are hit by an Ice-type move at once, each hit Pokémon will consume its Snowball before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Snowballs). In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, if the player has Snowballs in their satchel, they can be thrown at wild Pokémon to temporarily stun them. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, if a Snowball is held by a nicknamed Regice in the party, along with Regirock and Registeel, it allows Regigigas to spawn in Island Cave, except at night or before defeating or catching Groudon/Kyogre.

Title: Safety Goggles

The Safety Goggles (Japanese: ぼうじんゴーグル Dustproof Goggles) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It grants the holder immunity to powder and spore moves and damage from weather. Grants the holder immunity to powder and spore moves and to damage from hail and sandstorm. It also blocks the activation of the Ability Effect Spore. In Mounting an Electrifying Charge!, Ash and Charjabug both wore Safety Goggles provided for them by Sophocles during the desert segment of the Charjabug race in order to avoid being blinded by the sandstorm present in that portion of the race.

Title: Rich Mulch

The Rich Mulch (Japanese: たわわこやし Laden Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation VI. It is a type of Mulch used to increase the yield of Berry plants. When applied to a Berry patch, increases the final Berry harvest by 2 Berries. The Rich Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Surprise Mulch

The Surprise Mulch (Japanese: びっくりこやし Surprise Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation VI. It is a type of Mulch used to promote Berry mutations. When applied to a Berry patch, increases the chance of Berry mutations. The Surprise Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Boost Mulch

The Boost Mulch (Japanese: ぐんぐんこやし Increasing Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation VI. It is a type of Mulch used to dry out the soil of Berry plants more quickly. When applied to a Berry patch, causes the soil to dry out in 4 hours instead of 24 hours. The Boost Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Amaze Mulch

The Amaze Mulch (Japanese: とんでもこやし Outrageous Fertilizer) is a type of item introduced in Generation VI. It is a type of Mulch used to increase the yield of Berry plants, promote Berry mutations, and dry out the soil of Berry plants more quickly. When applied to a Berry patch, the soil dries more quickly, the final harvest increases by 2 Berries, and Berry mutations are more likely (the combined effects of the Rich Mulch, Surprise Mulch, and Boost Mulch). The Amaze Mulch serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Gengarite

The Gengarite (Japanese: ゲンガナイト Ganganite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Gengar to Mega Evolve into Mega Gengar. If held by a Gengar (or is present in the player's Bag), the Gengarite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gengar if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Gengarite from Gengar. If held by a Gengar, the Gengarite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gengar when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Gengar will remain a Mega Gengar until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Gengarite allows the player to Mega Evolve Gengar, Spooky Gengar and Shiny Gengar. The player can obtain the Gengarite by defeating Mega Gengar in Stage 135 found on Castle Noapte. The Gengarite enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Gengarite belonging to Gurkinn's Gengar first appeared in Changing Gengar. Both Gengar and his Mega Stone were given to X shortly afterwards. The Gengarite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Gardevoirite

The Gardevoirite (Japanese: サーナイトナイト Sirnightnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Gardevoir to Mega Evolve into Mega Gardevoir. If held by a Gardevoir, the Gardevoirite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gardevoir if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Gardevoirite from Gardevoir. If held by a Gardevoir, the Gardevoirite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gardevoir when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Gardevoir will remain a Mega Gardevoir until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Gardevoirite allows the player to Mega Evolve Gardevoir and Shiny Gardevoir. The player can obtain the Gardevoirite by finishing the competitive stage available in Week 21 of the event rotation or by reaching Trainer rank 20. The Gardevoirite was also available as a prize during the Mega Gardevoir competitive stage during the game's live service period: December 5 to 12, 2017 (3DS and Mobile) (Boss was Shiny version) The Gardevoirite enables the following Mega Evolutions: Diantha's Gardevoir's Gardevoirite first appeared in The Bonds of Evolution!. The Embrace Pokémon was shown carrying her Mega Stone in a necklace around her neck. In Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, Kimia's Shiny Gardevoir has a Gardevoirite in a necklace around its neck, which looks exactly like the necklace Diantha's Gardevoir has. A Gardevoirite appeared in Another Day with Gardevoir, worn by Yugo's Gardevoir on a hair clip. Diantha possesses a Gardevoirite, which first appeared in Chespin Sows the Seeds of Change. Her Gardevoir wears it around its head. In PS616, the Meteor Village elder offered Sapphire a Gardevoirite and Galladite, commenting on how her Gallade and Ruby's Gardevoir are a match. Ruby and Sapphire later used these Mega Stones to Mega Evolve Rara and Kirly during a brief battle against each other. The Gardevoirite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. The Gardevoirite is the first Mega Stone to appear in the animated series, outside of the Mega Evolution Specials.

Title: Ampharosite

The Ampharosite (Japanese: デンリュウナイト Denryunite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Ampharos to Mega Evolve into Mega Ampharos. If held by an Ampharos, the Ampharosite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Ampharos if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Ampharosite from Ampharos. If held by an Ampharos, the Ampharosite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Ampharos when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Ampharos will remain a Mega Ampharos until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Ampharosite allows the player to Mega Evolve Ampharos. The player can obtain the Ampharosite by defeating Mega Ampharos in Stage 105 found on Silbern Museum. The Ampharosite enables the following Mega Evolution: An uncut Ampharosite appeared in a flashback in Mega Evolution Special II, having been found by Lysandre before Alain could claim it. Alain battled Lysandre for it, but lost. In Mega Evolution - Ult, Emma used an Ampharosite to Mega Evolve her Ampharos. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King Taichi owns an Ampharosite, which allows his Ampharos to Mega Evolve into Mega Ampharos. The Ampharosite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Venusaurite

The Venusaurite (Japanese: フシギバナイト Fushigibanite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Venusaur to Mega Evolve into Mega Venusaur. If held by a Venusaur (or is present in the player's Bag), the Venusaurite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Venusaur if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Venusaurite from Venusaur. If held by a Venusaur, the Venusaurite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Venusaur when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Venusaur will remain a Mega Venusaur until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Venusaurite allows the player to Mega Evolve Venusaur. The player can obtain the Venusaurite by completing Mission Card 15. The Venusaurite was also available as a prize during the Mega Venusaur competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Venusaurite enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Venusaurite belonging to a Trainer appeared in Mega Evolution Special IV, during the ten-battle gauntlet Lysandre had arranged for Alain's training. The Venusaurite is located on a band placed around the flower on Venusaur's back. A Venusaurite appeared during Gurkinn's explanation about Mega Evolution in An Adventure of Mega Proportions!. Red obtained a Venusaurite sometime prior to Blastoise Transforms, using it to Mega Evolve Saur. The Venusaurite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. Venusaurite is the only Mega Stone related to a first partner Pokémon in Pokémon Legends: Z-A that is not available at the Stone Emporium.

Title: Charizardite X

The Charizardite X (Japanese: リザードナイトX Lizardonite X) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Charizard to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X. If held by a Charizard (or is present in the player's Bag), the Charizardite X allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Charizardite X from Charizard. If held by a Charizard, the Charizardite X allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Charizard will remain a Mega Charizard X until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Charizardite X allows the player to Mega Evolve Charizard and Shiny Charizard to Mega Charizard X. The player can obtain the Charizardite X by reaching Trainer rank 26. It is also available on Week 23 of the event rotation The Charizardite X was also available as a prize during the Mega Charizard X competitive stage during the game's live service period: January 2 to 9, 2018 (3DS and Mobile) (Boss was Shiny version) The Charizardite X enables the following Mega Evolutions: Alain once owned a Charizardite X that he obtained from Lysandre along with his Mega Ring, giving it to his Charizard to wear around its neck. After realizing Lysandre's true intentions and the error of his own ways, Alain disposed of the Charizardite X sometime before Till We Compete Again!, promising to start from a clean slate. In Curtain Up! Fight the Fights!, Alain was revealed to have acquired a new Charizardite X. In File 2: Cubone, Mr. Fuji gave Red a Mega Stone and a Key Stone, although he did not tell Red what they truly were, merely saying that he would find out soon enough. In File 4: Charizard, during Red's battle against Mewtwo, one of the stones was revealed to be a Charizardite X from Kalos. Together, it and the Key Stone allowed Red's Charizard to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X and weaken Mewtwo to a point where it could be caught. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King In Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King, Akira owns both a Charizardite X and a Charizardite Y. In Chesnaught Protects, X's Charmeleon, Salamè, was revealed to keep a Charizardite X hidden within his tail flame, explaining his habit of holding onto his tail. After evolving into Charizard, he became able to use the stone to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X. The Charizardite X has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Blastoisinite

The Blastoisinite (Japanese: カメックスナイト Kamexnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Blastoise to Mega Evolve into Mega Blastoise. If held by a Blastoise (or is present in the player's Bag), the Blastoisinite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Blastoise if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Blastoisinite from Blastoise. If held by a Blastoise, the Blastoisinite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Blastoise when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Blastoise will remain a Mega Blastoise until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Blastoisinite allows the player to Mega Evolve Blastoise. The player can obtain the Blastoisinite by completing Mission Card 12. The Blastoisinite was also available as a prize during the Mega Blastoise competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Blastoisinite enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Blastoisinite belonging to Siebold appeared in Mega Evolution Special I, where it was revealed during his battle with Alain. The Blastoisinite is worn around Blastoise's head. A Blastoisinite appeared in The Discovery, under Green's possession. She used it to Mega Evolve her Blastoise during her battle with Elaine. Green obtained a Blastoisinite sometime prior to Blastoise Transforms, and uses it to Mega Evolve Blasty. The Blastoisinite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Mewtwonite X

The Mewtwonite X (Japanese: ミュウツナイトX Mewtwonite X) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Mewtwo to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo X. If held by a Mewtwo (or is present in the player's Bag), the Mewtwonite X allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo X if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Mewtwonite X from Mewtwo. If held by a Mewtwo, the Mewtwonite X allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo X when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Mewtwo will remain a Mega Mewtwo X until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Mewtwonite X allows the player to Mega Evolve Mewtwo and Shiny Mewtwo. The player can obtain the Mewtwonite X by defeating Mega Mewtwo in Stage 350 found on Desert Umbra. The Mewtwonite X was also available as a prize during the Mega Mewtwo X competitive stage during the game's live service period: August 29 to September 5, 2017 (3DS and Mobile) (Boss was Shiny version) The Mewtwonite X enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Mewtwonite X and a Mewtwonite Y appeared in The Discovery, under Green's possession. After discovering that Elaine had managed to catch Mewtwo before her and being defeated in battle by her, Green gave the Mega Stones to her. In Mewtwo Angered, Blaine was revealed to be in possession of both a Mewtwonite X and a Mewtwonite Y, which he can use to Mega Evolve Mewtwo. After Mewtwo's Mega Evolution into Mega Mewtwo Y was undone while battling Lysandre and Zygarde, Blaine swapped its held Mega Stone, allowing Mewtwo to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo X and keep on fighting. Blaine then explained that due to the unique bond he and Mewtwo share, Mewtwo is able to Mega Evolve more than once per battle. The Mewtwonite X has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Mewtwonite Y

The Mewtwonite Y (Japanese: ミュウツナイトY Mewtwonite Y) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Mewtwo to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo Y. If held by a Mewtwo (or is present in the player's Bag), the Mewtwonite Y allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo Y if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Mewtwonite Y from Mewtwo. If held by a Mewtwo, the Mewtwonite Y allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo Y when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Mewtwo will remain a Mega Mewtwo Y until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Mewtwonite Y allows the player to Mega Evolve Mewtwo. The player can obtain the Mewtwonite Y by defeating Mega Mewtwo in Stage 150 found on Jungle Verde. The Mewtwonite Y enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Mewtwonite X and a Mewtwonite Y appeared in The Discovery, under Green's possession. After discovering that Elaine had managed to catch Mewtwo before her and being defeated in battle by her, Green gave the Mega Stones to her. In Mewtwo Angered, Blaine was revealed to be in possession of both a Mewtwonite X and a Mewtwonite Y, which he can use to Mega Evolve Mewtwo. After Mewtwo's Mega Evolution into Mega Mewtwo Y was undone while battling Lysandre and Zygarde, Blaine swapped its held Mega Stone, allowing Mewtwo to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo X and keep on fighting. Blaine then explained that due to the unique bond he and Mewtwo share, Mewtwo is able to Mega Evolve more than once per battle.

Title: Blazikenite

The Blazikenite (Japanese: バシャーモナイト Bursyamonite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Blaziken to Mega Evolve into Mega Blaziken. If held by a Blaziken, the Blazikenite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Blaziken if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Blazikenite from Blaziken. If held by a Blaziken, the Blazikenite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Blaziken when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Blaziken will remain a Mega Blaziken until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Blazikenite allows the player to Mega Evolve Blaziken. The player can obtain the Blazikenite by completing Mission Card 17. The Blazikenite was also available as a prize during the Mega Blaziken competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Blazikenite enables the following Mega Evolutions: In Claydol Unleashes, it was revealed that Steven had found a Blazikenite for Sapphire's Blaziken, Chic. The Blazikenite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Medichamite

The Medichamite (Japanese: チャーレムナイト Charemnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Medicham to Mega Evolve into Mega Medicham. If held by a Medicham, the Medichamite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Medicham if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Medichamite from Medicham. If held by a Medicham, the Medichamite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Medicham when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Medicham will remain a Mega Medicham until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Medichamite allows the player to Mega Evolve Medicham. The player can obtain the Medichamite by defeating Mega Medicham in Stage 240 found on Albens Town. The Medichamite enables the following Mega Evolution: In HZ130, Chalce was revealed to own a Medichamite, which she can use to Mega Evolve her Medicham. The Medichamite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Houndoominite

The Houndoominite (Japanese: ヘルガナイト Hellganite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Houndoom to Mega Evolve into Mega Houndoom. If held by a Houndoom, the Houndoominite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Houndoom if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Houndoominite from Houndoom. If held by a Houndoom, the Houndoominite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Houndoom when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Houndoom will remain a Mega Houndoom until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Houndoominite allows the player to Mega Evolve Houndoom. The player can obtain the Houndoominite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 19 of the event rotation. The Houndoominite was also available as a prize during the Mega Houndoom competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Houndoominite enables the following Mega Evolution: In Mega Evolution Special IV, Malva was revealed to own a Houndoominite, which is attached to a collar that her Houndoom wears around her neck. A Houndoominite appeared in Mega Evolution - Roy, under the possession of Master Mayonnaise. The Houndoominite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Aggronite

The Aggronite (Japanese: ボスゴドラナイト Bossgodoranite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Aggron to Mega Evolve into Mega Aggron. If held by an Aggron, the Aggronite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Aggron if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Aggronite from Aggron. If held by an Aggron, the Aggronite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Aggron when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Aggron will remain a Mega Aggron until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Aggronite allows the player to Mega Evolve Aggron. The player can obtain the Aggronite by defeating Mega Aggron in Stage 550 found on Nacht Carnival. The Aggronite enables the following Mega Evolutions: An Aggronite appeared in The Prism Between Light and Darkness!, under the ownership of Team Rocket Elite Officer Gozu. The Aggronite didn't appear to be equipped on Aggron, but rather, it appeared on its head right before Mega Evolving. The Aggronite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Banettite

The Banettite (Japanese: ジュペッタナイト Juppetanite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Banette to Mega Evolve into Mega Banette. If held by a Banette, the Banettite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Banette if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Banettite from Banette. If held by a Banette, the Banettite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Banette when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Banette will remain a Mega Banette until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Banettite allows the player to Mega Evolve Banette. The player can obtain the Banettite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 1 of the event rotation. The Banettite was also available as a prize during the Mega Banette competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Banettite enables the following Mega Evolutions: The Banettite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Tyranitarite

The Tyranitarite (Japanese: バンギラスナイト Bangirasnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Tyranitar to Mega Evolve into Mega Tyranitar. If held by a Tyranitar, the Tyranitarite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Tyranitar if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Tyranitarite from Tyranitar. If held by a Tyranitar, the Tyranitarite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Tyranitar when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Tyranitar will remain a Mega Tyranitar until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Tyranitarite allows the player to Mega Evolve Tyranitar and Shiny Tyranitar. The player can obtain the Tyranitarite by defeating Mega Tyranitar in Stage 420 found on Blau Salon. The Tyranitarite was also available as a prize during the Shiny Mega Tyranitar competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Tyranitarite enables the following Mega Evolutions: The Tyranitarite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Scizorite

The Scizorite (Japanese: ハッサムナイト Hassamnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Scizor to Mega Evolve into Mega Scizor. If held by a Scizor, the Scizorite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Scizor if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Scizorite from Scizor. If held by a Scizor, the Scizorite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Scizor when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Scizor will remain a Mega Scizor until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Scizorite allows the player to Mega Evolve Scizor. The player can obtain the Scizorite by defeating Mega Scizor in Stage 400 found on Violeta Palace. The Scizorite enables the following Mega Evolution: The Scizorite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Pinsirite

The Pinsirite (Japanese: カイロスナイト Kailiosnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Pinsir to Mega Evolve into Mega Pinsir. If held by a Pinsir (or is present in the player's Bag), the Pinsirite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Pinsir if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Pinsirite from Pinsir. If held by a Pinsir, the Pinsirite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Pinsir when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Pinsir will remain a Mega Pinsir until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Pinsirite allows the player to Mega Evolve Pinsir. The player can obtain the Pinsirite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 13 of the event rotation. The Pinsirite enables the following Mega Evolutions: In Pinsir Changes, Tierno and Shauna managed to find a Pinsirite for X from Route 19. This allowed him to Mega Evolve his Pinsir, nicknamed Rute, into Mega Pinsir. The Pinsirite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Aerodactylite

The Aerodactylite (Japanese: プテラナイト Pteranite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Aerodactyl to Mega Evolve into Mega Aerodactyl. If held by an Aerodactyl (or is present in the player's Bag), the Aerodactylite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Aerodactyl if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Aerodactylite from Aerodactyl. If held by an Aerodactyl, the Aerodactylite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Aerodactyl when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Aerodactyl will remain a Mega Aerodactyl until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Aerodactylite allows the player to Mega Evolve Aerodactyl. The player can obtain the Aerodactylite by defeating Mega Aerodactyl in Stage 180 found on Wacky Workshop. The Aerodactylite enables the following Mega Evolution: The Aerodactylite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Lucarionite

The Lucarionite (Japanese: ルカリオナイト Lucarionite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Lucario to Mega Evolve into Mega Lucario. If held by a Lucario, the Lucarionite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Lucario if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Lucarionite from Lucario. If held by a Lucario, the Lucarionite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Lucario when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Lucario will remain a Mega Lucario until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Lucarionite allows the player to Mega Evolve Lucario. The player can obtain the Lucarionite by reaching Trainer rank 4 or by completing Mission Card 2. The Lucarionite was also available as a prize during the Mega Lucario competitive stage during the game's live service period: It was also available via passcode on Pokémon Shuffle Mobile from August 25 to September 30, 2015. The Lucarionite enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Lucarionite debuted in a painting shown to Alain by Professor Sycamore in a flashback in Mega Evolution Special I. This painting featured the first ever Mega Evolution. A Lucarionite made its physical debut in The Cave of Trials!, where it was found by Korrina in a cave near Geosenge Town. After battling a Blaziken guarding the Lucarionite, which was later revealed to belong to Korrina's grandfather Gurkinn, Korrina obtained the Mega Stone and used it to Mega Evolve her Lucario. The uncut Lucarionite was later set in an armband by McGinty, allowing Lucario to wear the Mega Stone. In The Aura Storm!, Gurkinn was revealed to own another Lucarionite. Much like Korrina's Lucario, Gurkinn's Lucario also wears its Lucarionite in an armband on its left wrist. In Origins of Mega Evolution!, Gurkinn told a story about the first known Mega Evolution, which featured a Lucarionite. In An Adventure of Mega Proportions!, Ash found and obtained a Lucarionite for his Lucario at Mega Island. In Eyes to the Skies Once Again (Part One), Roy was revealed to have obtained a Lucarionite, which he uses to Mega Evolve his Shiny Lucario. In Mega Evolution - Bonds, it was shown that Roy obtained his Lucarionite alongside his Lucario in Lumiose City. Korrina possesses a Lucarionite, which first appeared in The Aegislash Agenda. It was later revealed that she and her Riolu had found the Mega Stone together in the past, as a task set by Gurkinn in order for her to become a Mega Evolution Successor. The Lucarionite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Abomasite

The Abomasite (Japanese: ユキノオナイト Yukinoonite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Abomasnow to Mega Evolve into Mega Abomasnow. If held by an Abomasnow, the Abomasite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Abomasnow if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Abomasite from Abomasnow. If held by an Abomasnow, the Abomasite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Abomasnow when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Abomasnow will remain a Mega Abomasnow until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Abomasite allows the player to Mega Evolve Abomasnow. The player can obtain the Abomasite by defeating Mega Abomasnow in Stage 620 found on Zaffiro Coast. The Abomasite was also available as a prize during the Mega Abomasnow competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Abomasite enables the following Mega Evolutions: An Abomasite appeared in A Real Icebreaker!, worn by Wulfric's Abomasnow. The Frost Tree Pokémon wears its Mega Stone on its chest, revealing it only when it was about to Mega Evolve. Wulfric used it during Ash's rematch against him, in which it battled Greninja. An Abomasite appeared during Gurkinn's explanation about Mega Evolution in An Adventure of Mega Proportions!. The Abomasite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Kangaskhanite

The Kangaskhanite (Japanese: ガルーラナイト Garuranite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Kangaskhan to Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan. If held by a Kangaskhan (or is present in the player's Bag), the Kangaskhanite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Kangaskhanite from Kangaskhan. If held by a Kangaskhan, the Kangaskhanite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Kangaskhan will remain a Mega Kangaskhan until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Kangaskhanite allows the player to Mega Evolve Kangaskhan. The player can obtain the Kangaskhanite by defeating Mega Kangaskhan in Stage 20 found on Sandy Bazaar. The Kangaskhanite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Kangaskhanite belonging to Ilima appeared in Battling Besties!. He used it to Mega Evolve his Kangaskhan during his Manalo Conference battle against Guzma, but despite the power-up, Kangaskhan was still defeated. A Kangaskhanite appeared in Bonding with Kangaskhan. In They Have a Flare for a Li'l Kanga-Napping, X's Kangaskhan, Kanga, was revealed to have a Kangaskhanite within her pouch, explaining how her baby, Li'l Kanga, had been able to Mega Evolve earlier. The Kangaskhanite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Gyaradosite

The Gyaradosite (Japanese: ギャラドスナイト Gyaradosnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Gyarados to Mega Evolve into Mega Gyarados. If held by a Gyarados (or is present in the player's Bag), the Gyaradosite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gyarados if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Gyaradosite from Gyarados. If held by a Gyarados, the Gyaradosite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gyarados when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Gyarados will remain a Mega Gyarados until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Gyaradosite allows the player to Mega Evolve Gyarados and Shiny Gyarados. The player can obtain the Gyaradosite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 9 of the event rotation. The Gyaradosite was also available as a prize during the Mega Gyarados competitive stage during the game's live service period: June 27 to July 4, 2017 (3DS and Mobile) (Boss was Shiny version) The Gyaradosite enables the following Mega Evolutions: Alain discovered an uncut Gyaradosite in Mega Evolution Special I. A Gyaradosite physically debuted in Coming Apart at the Dreams!, worn by Lysandre's Shiny Gyarados around its neck in a holder similar to the one Alain's Charizard keeps its Charizardite X in. It is unknown whether this Gyaradosite is the same one Alain had discovered uncut earlier, or a different one. Another Gyaradosite appeared in When Regions Collide!, where it was held by Misty's Gyarados. It didn't appear to be equipped on Gyarados, but rather, it appeared on its head crest right before Mega Evolving. A Gyaradosite appeared during Gurkinn's explanation about Mega Evolution in An Adventure of Mega Proportions!. Lysandre owns a Gyaradosite, which first appeared in Chespin Sows the Seeds of Change. After Celosia stole Korrina's Key Stone, it was fashioned into a Mega Ring for Lysandre, allowing him to use it and the Gyaradosite to Mega Evolve his Gyarados. Eventually, X stole the Key Stone back from him. The Gyaradosite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Absolite

The Absolite (Japanese: アブソルナイト Absolnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Absol to Mega Evolve into Mega Absol. If held by an Absol, the Absolite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Absol if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Absolite from Absol. If held by an Absol, the Absolite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Absol when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Absol will remain a Mega Absol until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Absolite allows the player to Mega Evolve Absol. The player can obtain the Absolite by completing Mission Card 10. The Absolite was also available as a prize during the Mega Absol competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Absolite enables the following Mega Evolutions: An Absolite belonging to Astrid appeared in Mega Evolution Special I, which is attached to a pendant her Absol wears around its neck. It was used to Mega Evolve her Absol to fight Alain and his Mega Charizard X. She used it again during her cameo appearance in Diancie and the Coccoon of Destruction, in which she and Absol fought Ash and his Hawlucha. In Pinsir Changes, Tierno and Shauna managed to find an Absolite for Y's Absol, Solsol, allowing her to Mega Evolve her recently caught team member. In Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction, Astrid, her Absol, and the Absolite it holds make brief appearances during their fight with Ash and his Hawlucha. The Absolite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Charizardite Y

The Charizardite Y (Japanese: リザードナイトY Lizardonite Y) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Charizard to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard Y. If held by a Charizard (or is present in the player's Bag), the Charizardite Y allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard Y if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Charizardite Y from Charizard. If held by a Charizard, the Charizardite Y allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard Y when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Charizard will remain a Mega Charizard Y until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Charizardite Y allows the player to Mega Evolve Charizard and Shiny Charizard to Mega Charizard Y. The player can obtain the Charizardite Y by reaching Trainer rank 7 or finishing Mission Card 8. The Charizardite Y was also available as a prize during the Mega Charizard competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Charizardite Y enables the following Mega Evolutions: In A League of His Own!, Trevor was revealed to have obtained a Charizardite Y before the events of the episode. His Charizard wears the Mega Stone on a ring around its tail. In HZ122, Friede was revealed to have obtained a Charizardite Y, which he used to Mega Evolve his Charizard. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King In Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King, Akira owns both a Charizardite Y and a Charizardite X. In Charizard Transforms, Blue was revealed to have obtained a Charizardite Y, which he uses to Mega Evolve his Charizard. The Charizardite Y has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Alakazite

The Alakazite (Japanese: フーディナイト Foodinite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Alakazam to Mega Evolve into Mega Alakazam. If held by an Alakazam (or is present in the player's Bag), the Alakazite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Alakazam if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Alakazite from Alakazam. If held by an Alakazam, the Alakazite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Alakazam when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Alakazam will remain a Mega Alakazam until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Alakazite allows the player to Mega Evolve Alakazam when the mega meter gauge is full with Alakazam in the first spot. The player can obtain the Alakazite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 11 of the event rotation. The Alakazite was also available as a prize during the Mega Alakazam competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Alakazite enables the following Mega Evolution: An Alakazite belonging to a Trainer appeared in Mega Evolution Special IV, during the ten-battle gauntlet Lysandre had arranged for Alain's training. The Alakazite was attached to the Alakazam's right spoon. The Alakazite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Heracronite

The Heracronite (Japanese: ヘラクロスナイト Heracrosnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Heracross to Mega Evolve into Mega Heracross. If held by a Heracross, the Heracronite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Heracross if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Heracronite from Heracross. If held by a Heracross, the Heracronite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Heracross when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Heracross will remain a Mega Heracross until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Heracronite allows the player to Mega Evolve Heracross. The player can obtain the Heracronite by defeating Mega Heracross in Stage 210 found on Pedra Valley. The Heracronite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Heracronite debuted in Mega Evolution - Roy, under the possession of Master Mayonnaise. In Heracross Transforms, Gurkinn was revealed to possess a Heracronite, which his Heracross wears around his horn. The Heracronite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Mawilite

The Mawilite (Japanese: クチートナイト Kucheatnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Mawile to Mega Evolve into Mega Mawile. If held by a Mawile, the Mawilite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Mawile if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Mawilite from Mawile. If held by a Mawile, the Mawilite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Mawile when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Mawile will remain a Mega Mawile until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Mawilite allows the player to Mega Evolve Mawile. The player can obtain the Mawilite by defeating Mega Mawile in Stage 90 found on Sweet Strasse. The Mawilite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Mawilite appeared in The Bonds of Mega Evolution!, worn by Mabel's Mawile in a piece of jewelry placed at the foot of its head jaws. The Mawilite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Manectite

The Manectite (Japanese: ライボルトナイト Livoltnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Manectric to Mega Evolve into Mega Manectric. If held by a Manectric, the Manectite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Manectric if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Manectite from Manectric. If held by a Manectric, the Manectite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Manectric when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Manectric will remain a Mega Manectric until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Manectite allows the player to Mega Evolve Manectric. The player can obtain the Manectite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 7 of the event rotation. The Manectite was also available as a prize during the Mega Manectric competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Manectite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Manectite first appeared in Fast-Thinking Froakie, where Clemont helped X and his friends find it at Route 5. Unfortunately, a Team Flare Grunt tasked in collecting Mega Stones had also found the stone, and escaped with it. X, Trevor, and a Manectric, who had gotten the group into searching the stone to begin with, chased the Grunt to Parfum Palace, where they eventually managed to get the stone back. The Manectric, which had joined X's party with the nickname "Élec" during the chase, subsequently used the stone to Mega Evolve and send the Grunt running away. Élec would then start wearing the Manectite in his mane, allowing him to Mega Evolve whenever it is necessary. The Manectite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Garchompite

The Garchompite (Japanese: ガブリアスナイト Gaburiasnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Garchomp to Mega Evolve into Mega Garchomp. If held by a Garchomp, the Garchompite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Garchomp if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Garchompite from Garchomp. If held by a Garchomp, the Garchompite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Garchomp when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Garchomp will remain a Mega Garchomp until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Garchompite allows the player to Mega Evolve Garchomp. The player can obtain the Garchompite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 3 of the event rotation. The Garchompite was also available as a prize during the Mega Garchomp competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Garchompite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Garchompite was first seen in Mega Evolution Special I, belonging to Remo. His Garchomp, Garchoo, wears the Mega Stone around his neck. The same Garchompite made a brief reappearance in Analysis Versus Passion!. A Garchompite belonging to Professor Sycamore and his Garchomp debuted in Garchomp's Mega Bond!. Garchomp wears her Mega Stone as a choker around her neck. In The Fiery Road to Mastership!, Cynthia was revealed to own a Garchompite, which her Garchomp uses to Mega Evolve. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King Koji owns a Garchompite, allowing his Garchomp to Mega Evolve into Mega Garchomp. The Garchompite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Roseli Berry

A Roseli Berry (Japanese: ロゼルのみ Rozelle Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VI. If the holder is hit by a supereffective Fairy-type attack, it will consume its held Roseli Berry and halve the attack's damage. If the holder has Ripen, the damage is multiplied by 1/4. The Roseli Berry's design and name may be based on a roselle.

Title: Kee Berry

A Kee Berry (Japanese: アッキのみ Acki Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VI. A Kee Berry raises the holder's Defense by one stage when hit by a physical move. This consumes the Kee Berry. If the holder has Ripen, then its Defense rises by two stages. The Kee Berry's design and name may be based on an ackee.

Title: Maranga Berry

A Maranga Berry (Japanese: タラプのみ Tarapu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VI. A Maranga Berry raises the holder's Special Defense by one stage when hit by a special move. This consumes the Maranga Berry. If the holder has Ripen, then its Special Defense rises by two stages. A Maranga Berry has been featured on the Tropical Party card sleeves. Excluding Berries with adjectives in their name, it has the longest name of a Berry in English, with seven letters. The Maranga Berry's design and name may be based on a marang.

Title: Discount Coupon

The Discount Coupon (Japanese: バーゲンチケット Bargain Ticket) is an item introduced in Generation VI. It can be exchanged at any boutique for a 50% discount on a single transaction. If the boutique fitting room is used to purchase multiple clothing items at once, using the coupon will apply the discount to all of the selected items.

Title: Strange Souvenir

The Strange Souvenir (Japanese: ふしぎなおきもの Mysterious Ornament) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VI. In Pokémon X and Y, the player is given the Strange Souvenir by a mysterious NPC who hints it is from a then-unrevealed region. This region was later revealed to be Alola. The Strange Souvenir serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Lumiose Galette

The Lumiose Galette (Japanese: ミアレガレット Miare Galette) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation VI. It is a local specialty of Lumiose City and cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. In Pokémon X and Y, the Lumiose Galette costs $80 if the player has at least 50 points of style. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Lumiose Galettes can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. They are unlocked at Trainer Rank 54 and cost 30,428 to unlock. Lumiose Galettes first appeared in Kalos League Passion with a Certain Flare!, where Meyer and Clembot brought Ash, his friends, Sawyer, and their Pokémon two boxes of them to celebrate Ash advancing to the finals of the Lumiose Conference. More Lumiose Galettes appeared in The First Day of the Rest of Your Life!, where Ash and Serena bought themselves some to eat from a bakery in Lumiose City. In Turning Heads and Training Hard!, Ilima was seen serving some Lumiose Galettes that he had brought from Kalos to Professor Kukui and Samson Oak. In Battle Three With Bea!, Korrina mentioned that Bea really likes Lumiose Galettes, but she had been unable to buy any for her. In The Future is Now, Thanks to Strategy!, Bonnie brought Ash some Lumiose Galettes during his and Goh's visit to the Lumiose Gym In It's... Champion Time!, James's Morpeko was seen eating a Lumiose Galette. Lumiose Galette was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Mega Evolution Series (the Japanese MEGA Series). It was first released in the Japanese Nihil Zero expansion and the English Perfect Order expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. The Lumiose Galette card heals 20 damage and removes one Special Condition (the equivalent of status conditions in the core series games) from the player's Active Pokémon. This effect is identical to the previously released Big Malasada card from the Sun & Moon expansion, which depicts another local specialty that heals status conditions. Lumiose Galettes are also seen in the illustrations of Hoopa from the Forbidden Light expansion and the Full Art illustration rare print of Morpeko from the Paradox Rift expansion. The Lumiose Galette has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Jaw Fossil

The Jaw Fossil (Japanese: アゴのカセキ Jaw Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation VI that can be regenerated into Tyrunt. It is the counterpart of the Sail Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Jaw Fossil can be regenerated into a Tyrunt. The Jaw Fossil was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Furious Fists expansion, first released in the Japanese Rising Fist expansion. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal a Tyrunt they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Main article: Antique Jaw Fossil (Perfect Order 68) The Mega Evolution Series saw the release of Antique Jaw Fossil in the Perfect Order expansion, first released in the Japanese Nihil Zero expansion. This card is unlike the previous Jaw Fossil card and more in line with other Item cards depicting Fossils, allowing the player to play it onto the Bench as if it were a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has an Ability that reduces damages from attacks used by the opponent's Active Pokémon by 30. Unidentified Fossil cards are Fossil Trainer cards which become Basic Pokémon. While they do not feature a Jaw Fossil, they can still be used to evolve into certain Tyrunt. The Jaw Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sail Fossil

The Sail Fossil (Japanese: ヒレのカセキ Fin Fossil) is a fossil introduced in Generation VI that can be regenerated into Amaura. It is the counterpart of the Jaw Fossil. If brought to the one of the following locations, the Sail Fossil can be regenerated into an Amaura. A Sail Fossil made a brief appearance in a flashback in Coming Back into the Cold!. It was discovered from a glacier by a group of researchers from the Ambrette Town Fossil Lab, and it was eventually revived into two Amaura, one of which later evolved into an Aurorus. The Sail Fossil was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game in the Furious Fists expansion, first released in the Japanese Rising Fist expansion. It allows players to look at the bottom seven cards of their deck, reveal an Amaura they find there, and put it onto their Bench. The other six cards are then shuffled back into the deck. Main article: Antique Sail Fossil (Perfect Order 69) The Mega Evolution Series saw the release of Antique Sail Fossil in the Perfect Order expansion, first released in the Japanese Nihil Zero expansion. This card is unlike the previous Sail Fossil card and more in line with other Item cards depicting Fossils, allowing the player to play it onto the Bench as if it were a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It has an Ability that prevents all effects of Supporter cards played from the opponent's hand done to it. A Sail Fossil is also featured on Unidentified Fossil cards. These cards are played as if they were Basic Pokémon and can evolve into Amaura. The Sail Fossil has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Fairy Gem

The Fairy Gem (Japanese: フェアリージュエル Fairy Jewel) is a type of held item that first appeared in game data in Generation VI. It is one of the Gems. It cannot be obtained in any game. When held by a Pokémon, it increases the power of the first Fairy-type move used by 30%, and is consumed after use. Fling will fail if the user is holding a Fairy Gem. The Fairy Gem has not been obtainable in any game.

Title: Elevator Key

If you were looking for the key in Pokémon Colosseum and XD, see Elevator Key (Orre). The Elevator Key (Japanese: エレベーターのキー Elevator Key) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It unlocks the elevator in Lysandre Labs. The Elevator Key unlocks the elevator in Lysandre Labs, allowing the player to access its lower floors. Lab Key Card A, Lab Key Card B, Lab Key Card C, Lab Key Card M, and Lab Key Card X

Title: Holo Caster

This article is about the item in Generation VI. For the segment at the end of Japanese episodes of Pokémon the Series: XY, see Professor Oak's Pokémon Holo Caster. The Holo Caster (Japanese: ホロキャスター Holo Caster) is a Key Item in Generation VI, introduced in Pokémon X and Y. It is a device developed by Lysandre Labs that allows people to communicate with each other through holograms. The player automatically starts their game with a Holo Caster. Its color depends on the player's gender: green for male or red for female. At various points in the game's plot, the player will receive messages from their friends and allies to advance the story. It is revealed later in the storyline that Team Flare spied on messages sent by the Holo Caster, although Sina and Dexio destroy the machine which recorded the messages shortly after Team Flare is defeated in Geosenge Town. By accessing the Holo Caster via PSS, it was used to receive special news bulletins about events and tournaments, and receive special distributions from participating stores and event locations via SpotPass. With StreetPass, the player can collect reports on other players as they pass by them. These are presented in a similar way to a news report, with the reporter being Malva. The Holo Caster service was discontinued in October 2016 in preparation for the release of Pokémon Sun and Moon. In the Looker Bureau missions, the Holo Caster is frequently used by Emma, Malva, and Looker. In any mode, the Nintendo 3DS's internal gyroscope can be used to move the background behind the character on-screen. The SpotPass and StreetPass functions of the Holo Caster are accessible through the PSS section of the PlayNav, even though the device itself is not obtainable in the game. The Holo Caster is no longer available as a key item in Legends: Z-A, but is referenced by other non-player characters. It is now able to project full life-sized holograms of people, and this function is used regularly by Tarragon and Jacinthe. Tarragon uses the Holo Caster to masquerade as Canari for certain in-person events such as the Canari Quiz Whiz Contest, and controls the movements of this hologram by using a separate app. Jacinthe's hologram is uniquely purple (while other holograms are blue), and this hologram is capable of battling and Mega Evolving her Pokémon. In Pokémon the Series, Holo Casters have primarily appeared under the ownership of characters associated with Team Flare. The first one was first seen in Mega Evolution Special I, under the ownership of Alain, while another Holo Caster appeared in Mega Evolution Special II, this time under the ownership of Lysandre. The Team Flare Scientists also possess a Holo Caster each, as first seen in From A to Z!. The Holo Caster was featured in The Beauty Eternal, in which Lysandre announced it during a press conference he held in Lumiose City. It was introduced as a product that would bring Kalosian people closer together. The Holo Caster became a huge success across Kalos and Lysandre Labs decided to increase its production due to excess demand. With what he gained from the Holo Caster, Lysandre was able to donate medical equipment to a Pokémon Center. Trevor owns a Holo Caster, which was first shown in An X-cuse to Come Out and Play. He frequently uses it to contact Professor Sycamore. It was broken during the battle between Xerneas and Yveltal, but was later repaired by Lysandre.

Title: Intriguing Stone

The Intriguing Stone (Japanese: すごそうないし Precious-looking Stone) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It is an unidentified Mega Stone, whose identity is revealed in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. The Intriguing Stone can be exchanged with a Hiker in Shalour City for a Sun Stone after it has been shown to Gurkinn in the Tower of Mastery. The Intriguing Stone can be taken to the Devon Corporation in Rustboro City to be shown to Mr. Stone, who identifies it as a Pidgeotite.

Title: Lens Case

The Lens Case (Japanese: レンズケース Lens Case) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It allows the player to change the color of their eyes. The Lens Case stores colored contact lenses, which allow the player to change their eye color in fitting rooms. The player can choose from the following contacts when changing their contact lenses. In Pokémon X and Y, the player does not obtain contacts matching their default eye color; in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, the player is wearing colored contacts by default.

Title: Looker Ticket

The Looker Tickets (Japanese: ハンサムチケット Handsome Tickets) are Key Items introduced in Generation VI. They are a set of five tickets that Looker tasks the player to find to test them during the Looker Bureau post-game quest. Collecting the five Looker Tickets that Looker hid throughout Lumiose City will allow the player to progress the storyline. In his sync pair story in Pokémon Masters EX, Looker is revealed to have introduced Pasio to his concept of searching for Looker Tickets to help people improve their detective skills. He rewards anyone who manages to collect all five tickets with a restaurant coupon.

Title: Mega Ring

A Mega Ring (Japanese: メガリング Mega Ring) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It is a Key Stone accessory that enables Mega Evolution. Its counterpart in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire is the Mega Bracelet. At the Tower of Mastery, Gurkinn offers a single Mega Ring to the player and their friends, but due to only having a single Mega Ring to give away, requests that they decide among themselves who should receive it. Of the group, only the player and Serena/Calem are interested in receiving it, so the two battle to decide who should receive it. Upon defeating Serena/Calem, the player must obtain the Rumble Badge at the Shalour Gym and then go to the top of the Tower of Mastery to receive the ring from Korrina. After the player has defeated their rival in Kiloude City once, Professor Sycamore will upgrade the player's Mega Ring at the Anistar Sundial by having the player touch the sundial. Once upgraded, the player can then find hidden Mega Stones around Kalos from 8:00 PM to 9:00 PM. AZ is rumored to have traveled to Hoenn, where he researched the origins of Mega Evolution to satisfy his own curiosity, then taught Quasartico Inc. how to make Mega Rings with his research. When Ange awakened within Prism Tower, it started unleading Mega Power, causing wild Pokémon to undergo Rogue Mega Evolution. To stop the tower, Quasartico planned to find the strongest Mega Evolution user by providing certain Trainers of the Z-A Royale from Rank G and above with Mega Rings in order for them to use Mega Evolution. In Pokémon X and Y, after the player has visited Kiloude City and participated in a battle at the Battle Maison, Calem/Serena will battle the player once per day at the northern part of the city, having obtained their own Mega Ring. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Courtney/Matt use Mega Rings during the Delta Episode, although they are not seen on their artwork. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, Sina and Dexio use white Mega Rings, which they each wear around their left wrist, though only Dexio has the opportunity to use it outside the Battle Tree. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Urbain/Taunie, Naveen, and Lida each have a Mega Ring. Allows the player to Mega Evolve their Pokémon if they hold the appropriate Mega Stone. Each Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle. In Mega Evolution Special I, Alain was seen wearing a Mega Ring, which he uses to Mega Evolve his Charizard into Mega Charizard X. In Mega Evolution Special II, it was revealed that he received it from Lysandre. After the Team Flare crisis, Alain gave his Mega Ring to the authorities to be used as evidence and resolved to find himself a new Key Stone on his own. In Curtain Up! Fight the Fights!, Alain was revealed to have obtained a new Mega Ring. In The Visionary, Calem and Serena were seen wearing a Mega Ring each. Neither of them was used during the episode. In Pokémon Horizons: The Series, Mega Rings share their design with those from Pokémon Legends: Z-A. In Where the Adventure Leads, Roy was revealed to be in possession of a Mega Ring. In Eyes to the Skies Once Again (Part One), it was revealed that both Roy and his rival Ult gained their Mega Rings during their training together in the Kalos region. In Mega Evolution - Roy, they were shown to have received their Mega Rings from Master Mayonnaise. Roy uses his Mega Ring to Mega Evolve his Lucario, while Ult uses his to Mega Evolve his Sableye and Dragonite. In Mega Evolution - Ult, Emma used a Mega Ring to Mega Evolve her Ampharos. In HZ122, Friede was revealed to have obtained a Mega Ring during the year he spent apart from the Rising Volt Tacklers. He can use it to Mega Evolve his Starmie and Charizard. In HZ130, Chalce was revealed to possess a Mega Ring. She uses it to Mega Evolve her Medicham. In HZ131, Master Mayonnaise used a Mega Ring to Mega Evolve his Hawlucha during his battle against Roy. X was given a Mega Ring with a Key Stone inside by Gurkinn as a child. With it, he can Mega Evolve his Li'l Kanga, Salamè, Élec, Garma, and Rute, into Mega Kangaskhan, Mega Charizard X, Mega Manectric, Mega Gengar, and Mega Pinsir, respectively. In Pinsir Glares, Y was made a Mega Evolution successor by Gurkinn and given a Mega Ring outfitted with the Key Stone from Gurkinn's Mega Glove. With it, she can Mega Evolve her Solsol into Mega Absol. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King Taichi owns a Mega Ring, which allows him to Mega Evolve his Ampharos into Mega Ampharos. Lysandre's Key Stone accessory is also known as a Mega Ring; however, it is a finger ring, not a wrist ring. Grisham and Griselle also wear similar rings embedded with their Key Stones, seemingly in imitation of Lysandre.

Title: Power Plant Pass

The Power Plant Pass (Japanese: はつでんしょパス Power Plant Pass) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. The Power Plant Pass allows the player to enter the Kalos Power Plant.

Title: Roller Skates

Roller Skate redirects here. For the Trainer class, see Roller Skater (Trainer class). The Roller Skates (Japanese: ローラースケート Roller Skates) are a Key Item in Pokémon X and Y that allow the player to move around faster than they would by running, but slower than they would on a Bicycle, by navigating with the Nintendo 3DS's Circle Pad. They are based on inline skates. In Pokémon X and Y, in addition to being an item available to the player, Korrina and the Roller Skater Trainer class are also seen wearing Roller Skates. Using the Nintendo 3DS's Circle Pad causes the player to use the Roller Skates, if possible. Pressing the D-pad while using the Roller Skates will cause the player to take them off. In some areas—such as Route 5, Shalour Gym, Route 13, and Dendemille Town—there are rails which the player can grind across using the Roller Skates. These rails frequently feature dips which will cause the player to fall off unless they are moving fast enough. When skating through tall grass, the player is reduced to walking speed and the Poké Radar may not be used. The player can perform certain tricks while using the Roller Skates. Any trick requiring a ledge cannot be performed until the player has learned it from an NPC; otherwise, the player may perform grounded 360s, parallel swizzles, and drift-and-dashes as soon as they have the Roller Skates. These tricks are aesthetic and have no significant gameplay effect. Any trick being correctly performed will be indicated by a high-pitched whooshing noise. In Pokémon Masters EX, Korrina appears wearing Roller Skates. Korrina was seen wearing Roller Skates during her debut in Mega Revelations!. She also used them in her later appearances. In Origins of Mega Evolution!, she was seen skating through a roller skate obstacle course inside the Shalour Gym while arriving to battle Ash. Roller Skates were first seen in Lucky Lucario Was Here, where they were used by Korrina. She used them to perform several tricks to better her Mega Lucario's movements during her battle against Celosia. Later, she gave Tierno a pair of Roller Skates as a gift. Tierno's Roller Skates eventually ended up getting destroyed in Xerneas Gives during the final battle against Team Flare, when they were melted by Mable's Houndoom's Inferno. The Roller Skates were introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English XY Series (Japanese XY Era). First released in the Japanese Collection X expansion, it later debuted in English in the XY expansion, with both prints featuring an illustration by 5ban Graphics. This Trainer card allows the player to flip a coin and draw three cards if the result is heads. A miniature of a pair of Roller Skates was included in the Kalos goods set from the Pokémon World Market merchandise line that was made by Re-Ment and exclusive to the Pokémon Center. Korrina mentions her Roller Skates during Pokémon Legends: Z-A's Mega Dimension DLC, calling them a "shtick" that she's had to drop by then.

Title: Sprinklotad

The Sprinklotad (Japanese: ハスボーじょうろ Hassboh Watering Can) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It is a watering can fashioned after a Lotad. The Sprinklotad allows the player to water the trees they plant at the Berry fields. A Sprinklotad was briefly seen in Under the Pledging Tree!, where it was one of the items offered to Ash by a market vendor in Coumarine City after Ash had wondered out loud what presents he should buy for an upcoming festival. A Sprinklotad briefly appeared in PT12, being used by a Trainer to shower her Leafeon. The Sprinklotad is the only watering can whose design is not based on a pure Water-type Pokémon; Lotad is a Water/Grass-type Pokémon.

Title: Latiasite

The Latiasite (Japanese: ラティアスナイト Latiasnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Latias to Mega Evolve into Mega Latias. If held by a Latias, the Latiasite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Latias if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Latiasite from Latias. If held by a Latias, the Latiasite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Latias when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Latias will remain a Mega Latias until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Latiasite allows the player to Mega Evolve Latias. The player can obtain the Latiasite by passing Level 50 on a Mega Latias escalation battle in Weeks 8 and 9 of the event rotation. The Latiasite was also available as a prize from Latias escalation battles during the game's live service period: The Latiasite enables the following Mega Evolution: In Latias Flies, Latios and Latias were revealed to have obtained their respective Mega Stones. The Latiasite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. Data for the Latiasite and the Latiosite exists within the code of Pokémon X and Y, despite the Mega Stones not having been officially introduced until Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, which allows them to be transferred to and used in X and Y.

Title: Latiosite

The Latiosite (Japanese: ラティオスナイト Latiosnite) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VI. It is the Mega Stone that allows Latios to Mega Evolve into Mega Latios. If held by a Latios, the Latiosite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Latios if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Latiosite from Latios. If held by a Latios, the Latiosite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Latios when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Latios will remain a Mega Latios until the Talent Round ends. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Latiosite allows the player to Mega Evolve Latios. The player can obtain the Latiosite by passing Level 50 on a Mega Latios escalation battle in Weeks 4 and 5 of the event rotation. The Latiosite was also available as a prize from Latios escalation battles during the game's live service period: The Latiosite enables the following Mega Evolution: In Latias Flies, Latios and Latias were revealed to have obtained their respective Mega Stones. Using the Latiosite in combination with his Mega Bracelet, Ruby was able to Mega Evolve Latios and soar in the sky. He later Mega Evolved Latios again to battle Zinnia and her Mega Salamence at the Sky Pillar. The Latiosite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. Data for Latiosite and Latiasite exists within the code of Pokémon X and Y, despite the Mega Stones not being officially introduced until Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, which allows them to be transferred to and used in X and Y.

Title: Makeup Bag

The Makeup Bag (Japanese: コスメポーチ Cosmetics Pouch) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It allows female player characters to change the color of their lips. The Makeup Bag stores lipsticks, which allow the player to change their lip color in fitting rooms. The player can choose from the following lipsticks:

Title: Shalour Sable

The Shalour Sable (Japanese: シャラサブレ Shala Sable) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation VI. It is a local specialty of Shalour City and cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Shalour Sables can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. They are unlocked at Trainer Rank 48 and cost 15,171 to unlock. In The Fiery Road to Mastership!, James's Morpeko was seen eating Shalour Sables. The Shalour Sable, as depicted in the artwork from Scarlet and Violet, has been featured in a figure of Dedenne from the Pokémon Delicious Adventure figure line by The Pokémon Company International, visible when looking at the figure from the back. Although Shalour Sables are not obtainable in Pokémon X and Y without trading, they are mentioned by a female Tourist standing near the Galette Stand in Lumiose City. The Shalour Sable is the only local specialty not obtainable in its home region in the games.

Title: Devon Parts

The Devon Parts (Japanese: デボンのにもつ Devon Bag) are a Key Item introduced in Generation III. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, they were known as the Devon Goods. The Devon Parts are stolen by a Team Magma Grunt/Team Aqua Grunt in Rustboro City after the player has earned the Stone Badge. After the player has gotten the parts back, Mr. Stone requests that they deliver the goods to Captain Stern themselves. The attaché case contains mechanical parts from the Devon Corporation. Giving the parts to Stern in the Oceanic Museum progresses the main storyline. The Devon Parts were first mentioned in Mowing Down Ludicolo, where Team Aqua succeeded in stealing them from Mr. Stone. After Team Magma later succeeded in stealing the Submarine Explorer 1, the two villainous teams formed a temporary alliance in order to safely reach Seafloor Cavern. When the parts stolen by Team Aqua were combined with the submarine stolen by Team Magma, the submersible became able to reach greater depths than usual, allowing it to reach Seafloor Cavern. In Very Vexing Volbeat, after Amber had succeeded in stealing the Blue Orb from Tabitha and delivering it to Archie, the evil team boss trapped both Amber and Tabitha into the submarine and sent it diving into the ocean depths on autopilot. He then revealed that he had removed the Devon Parts from the submarine, dooming both men trapped inside it to die when the deep sea pressure would break the submarine's hull. Fortunately, the two Admins were saved from certain death by Blaise's Armaldo.

Title: Devon Scuba Gear

The Devon Scuba Gear (Japanese: デボンボンベ Devon Tank) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It is one of Devon Corporation's products. The goggles are fashioned after a Marshtomp. The Devon Scuba Gear is worn while underwater, giving the player oxygen.

Title: Magma Suit

The Magma Suit (Japanese: マグマスーツ Magma Suit) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. In Pokémon Omega Ruby, the Magma Suit allows the player to reach Groudon's chamber in the Cave of Origin. It is later used in the climax of the Delta Episode to ride Mega Rayquaza into space and confront Deoxys. The Magma Suit appeared in The Scoop, where it was seen being worn by a Trainer while using Mega Rayquaza to destroy a meteor and subsequently battle a Deoxys. The Magma Suit first appeared in Kyogre Returns, under the possession of the second Tabitha. When Ruby and Sapphire later prepared to ride Mega Rayquaza into space to destroy Grand Meteor Delta in Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Ruby was given the Magma Suit to wear for the journey. For this purpose, the suit was upgraded in several ways, including with a set of Key Stones provided by the Devon Corporation in order to Mega Evolve Rayquaza. A replica of the Magma Suit helmet can be bought from Atticus at the Porto Marinada Market in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Aqua Suit

The Aqua Suit (Japanese: アクアスーツ Aqua Suit) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. In Pokémon Alpha Sapphire, the Aqua Suit allows the player to reach Kyogre's chamber in the Cave of Origin. It is later used in the climax of the Delta Episode to ride Mega Rayquaza into space and confront Deoxys. The Aqua Suit first appeared in Kyogre Returns, under the possession of the second Shelly. When Ruby and Sapphire later prepared to ride Mega Rayquaza into space to destroy Grand Meteor Delta in Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Sapphire was given the Aqua Suit to wear for the journey. For this purpose, the suit was upgraded in several ways, including with a set of Key Stones provided by the Devon Corporation in order to Mega Evolve Rayquaza, and the Green Orb core in order to control it. A replica of the Aqua Suit helmet can be bought from Atticus at the Porto Marinada Market in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Mega Bracelet

A Mega Bracelet (Japanese: メガバングル Mega Bangle) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. It is a Key Stone accessory that enables Mega Evolution. Its counterpart in Pokémon X and Y is the Mega Ring. Steven gives the Mega Bracelet to the player on Southern Island after Latios or Latias, holding its respective Mega Stone, joins the player. The player character also wears a special Mega Bracelet during Pokémon Contest Spectaculars. Brendan's is a Mega Cuff (Japanese: メガブレス Mega Bracelet), a black band with a circle of large, connected red diamonds affixed to it, with the Key Stone embedded in the band; May's is a Mega Charm (Japanese: メガチャーム Mega Charm), a chain of cream bows with the Key Stone embedded into a pink heart charm. After the player has defeated the Champion, their neighbor Brendan/May is revealed to have obtained a Mega Bracelet of their own, which they use in a post-credits battle on Route 103. Secret Base Trainer avatars of player characters that have a Mega Bracelet will use it in battle if possible. Allows the player to Mega Evolve their Pokémon if they hold the appropriate Mega Stone. Each Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle. On August 27, 2020, in conjunction with the release of Mega Evolution in Pokémon GO, the Mega Bracelet was added to the Style Shop. However, unlike the core series games, they are not required to Mega Evolve a Pokémon; rather, they are merely for cosmetic purposes. In The Vision, Brendan was seen wearing his Mega Bracelet, although he was never seen using it. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer In the Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer, Brendan and May were seen wearing their Mega Bracelets. They used them to Mega Evolve the Hoenn first partner Pokémon. May was also briefly seen wearing her Mega Charm during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular while performing with a Mega Altaria and Mega Audino. In The Wish, May was seen wearing her Mega Bracelet. She used it first to Mega Evolve her Swampert and later her newly caught Rayquaza. Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald acquired Mega Bracelets from Ultima and Steven in preparation for another disaster coming to Hoenn. In Claydol Unleashes, Ruby successfully used his Mega Bracelet and Latios's Latiosite to Mega Evolve the Eon Pokémon and soar with it to the Sky Pillar. The three aforementioned Pokédex holders can also use their Mega Bracelets to Mega Evolve their respective Hoenn first partner Pokémon. In Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Ruby and Sapphire were also seen wearing a Mega Cuff and a Mega Charm, respectively, during a Contest Spectacular. Ruby used his Mega Cuff to Mega Evolve Diancie for his Appeal. Diantha's Key Stone accessory is also known as a Mega Charm; however, it is a golden necklace, not a bracelet.

Title: Swampertite

The Swampertite (Japanese: ラグラージナイト Laglargenite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Swampert to Mega Evolve into Mega Swampert. If held by a Swampert, the Swampertite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Swampert if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Swampertite from Swampert. If held by a Swampert, the Swampertite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Swampert when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Swampert will remain a Mega Swampert until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Swampertite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Swampertite allows the player to Mega Evolve Swampert. The player can obtain the Swampertite by completing Mission Card 18. The Swampertite was also available as a prize during the Mega Swampert competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Swampertite enables the following Mega Evolution: In Claydol Unleashes, it was revealed that Steven had found a Swampertite for Ruby's Swampert, Mumu. The Swampertite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sceptilite

The Sceptilite (Japanese: ジュカインナイト Jukainnite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Sceptile to Mega Evolve into Mega Sceptile. If held by a Sceptile, the Sceptilite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Sceptile if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Sceptilite from Sceptile. If held by a Sceptile, the Sceptilite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Sceptile when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Sceptile will remain a Mega Sceptile until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Sceptilite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Sceptilite allows the player to Mega Evolve Sceptile. The player can obtain the Sceptilite by completing Mission Card 19. The Sceptilite was also available as a prize during the Mega Sceptile competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Sceptilite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Sceptilite first appeared in Valuable Experience for All!. It was worn by Sawyer's Sceptile on a bandanna that is tied around its neck. In Claydol Unleashes, it was revealed that Steven had found a Sceptilite for Emerald's Sceptile. The Sceptilite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sablenite

The Sablenite (Japanese: ヤミラミナイト Yamiraminite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Sableye to Mega Evolve into Mega Sableye. If held by a Sableye, the Sablenite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Sableye if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Sablenite from Sableye. If held by a Sableye, the Sablenite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Sableye when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Sableye will remain a Mega Sableye until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Sablenite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Sablenite allows the player to Mega Evolve Sableye and Spooky Sableye. The player can obtain the Sablenite by defeating Mega Sableye in Stage 30 found on Night Festival. The Sablenite enables the following Mega Evolutions: A Sablenite debuted in Eyes to the Skies Once Again (Part One), under the ownership of Ult, who uses it to Mega Evolve his Sableye. In Mega Evolution - Roy, it was revealed that Ult found it in Lumiose City while picking up garbage.

Title: Altarianite

The Altarianite (Japanese: チルタリスナイト Tyltalisnite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Altaria to Mega Evolve into Mega Altaria. If held by an Altaria, the Altarianite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Altaria if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Altarianite from Altaria. If held by an Altaria, allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Altaria when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular while its Trainer has a Key Stone. Altaria will remain a Mega Altaria until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding an Altarianite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Altarianite allows the player to Mega Evolve Altaria. The player can obtain the Altarianite by defeating Mega Altaria in Stage 75 found on Galerie Rouge. The Altarianite enables the following Mega Evolution: An Altarianite belonging to Drasna appeared in Taking Two For The Team!. She used it to Mega Evolve her Altaria during her World Coronation Series battle against Ash, but despite the power-up, Altaria was still defeated. Another Altarianite appeared in Reuniting for the First Time!, under the ownership of Lisia. She used it to Mega Evolve her Altaria, Ali, during the Lilycove City Pokémon Contest Spectacular. The Altarianite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Galladite

The Galladite (Japanese: エルレイドナイト Erureidonite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Gallade to Mega Evolve into Mega Gallade. If held by a Gallade, the Galladite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gallade if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Galladite from Gallade . If held by a Gallade, the Galladite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Gallade when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Gallade will remain a Mega Gallade until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Galladite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Galladite allows the player to Mega Evolve Gallade. The player can obtain the Galladite by defeating Mega Gallade in Stage 580 found on Prasino Woods. The Galladite enables the following Mega Evolution: In PS616, the Meteor Village elder offered Sapphire a Gardevoirite and Galladite, commenting on how her Gallade and Ruby's Gardevoir are a match. Ruby and Sapphire later used these Mega Stones to Mega Evolve Rara and Kirly during a brief battle against each other.

Title: Audinite

The Audinite (Japanese: タブンネナイト Tabunnenite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Audino to Mega Evolve into Mega Audino. If held by an Audino, the Audinite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Audino if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove an Audinite from Audino. If held by an Audino, the Audinite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Audino when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Audino will remain a Mega Audino until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding an Audinite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Audinite allows the player to Mega Evolve Audino and Winking Audino to Mega Audino. The player can obtain the Audinite by defeating Mega Audino in Stage 10, the final stage of Puerto Blanco. Its Trainer gives the player the Mega Stone as a reward for winning. The Audinite enables the following Mega Evolutions: Having the Audinite allows the player to view Audino and Winking Audino from the Pokémon List even if they are not captured, though their icons are faded and their type, attack power, and Skill are not visible. However, Stage 9 is guaranteed to conclude with Audino being captured, so in practice this can only apply to Winking Audino. An Audinite appeared in A Giga Battle with Mega Results!, where a Nurse Joy owning an Audino had found one during her efforts to mend their recently-souring relationship. She later used it and Professor Sycamore's Key Stone to Mega Evolve Audino in order to fight against Team Rocket. The Audinite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Metagrossite

The Metagrossite (Japanese: メタグロスナイト Metagrossnite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Metagross to Mega Evolve into Mega Metagross. If held by a Metagross, the Metagrossite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Metagross if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Metagrossite from Metagross. If held by a Metagross, the Metagrossite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Metagross when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Metagross will remain a Mega Metagross until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Metagrossite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Metagrossite allows the player to Mega Evolve Metagross and Shiny Metagross. The player can obtain the Metagrossite by defeating Mega Metagross in Stage 500 found on Graucus Hall. The Metagrossite enables the following Mega Evolutions: Steven's Shiny Metagross's Metagrossite debuted in Mega Evolution Special II, where it was worn as a large bracelet on its right foreleg. In Hoopa Distorts, Steven was revealed to be in possession of a Metagrossite. The Metagrossite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Sharpedonite

The Sharpedonite (Japanese: サメハダナイト Samehadenite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Sharpedo to Mega Evolve into Mega Sharpedo. If held by a Sharpedo, the Sharpedonite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Sharpedo if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Sharpedonite from Sharpedo. If held by a Sharpedo, the Sharpedonite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Sharpedo when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Sharpedo will remain a Mega Sharpedo until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Sharpedonite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Sharpedonite allows the player to Mega Evolve Sharpedo. The player can obtain the Sharpedonite by defeating Mega Sharpedo in Stage 600 found on Prasino Woods. The Sharpedonite was also available as a prize during the Mega Sharpedo competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Sharpedonite enables the following Mega Evolution: In Blastoise Transforms, Archie was revealed to have obtained a Sharpedonite. After his apparent death, Amber took possession of the Mega Stone. The Sharpedonite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Slowbronite

The Slowbronite (Japanese: ヤドランナイト Yadorannite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Kantonian Slowbro to Mega Evolve into Mega Slowbro. If held by a Kantonian Slowbro (or is present in the player's Bag), the Slowbronite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Slowbro if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Slowbronite from Slowbro. If held by a Slowbro, the Slowbronite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Slowbro when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Slowbro will remain a Mega Slowbro until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Slowbronite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Slowbronite allows the player to Mega Evolve Slowbro. The player can obtain the Slowbronite by defeating Mega Slowbro in Stage 45 found on Isla Asul. The Slowbronite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Slowbronite appeared during Gurkinn's explanation about Mega Evolution in An Adventure of Mega Proportions!. In Slowbro Has an Idea, Jinga was revealed to possess a Slowbronite, which he used to Mega Evolve his Slowbro. The Slowbronite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Steelixite

The Steelixite (Japanese: ハガネールナイト Haganeilnite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Steelix to Mega Evolve into Mega Steelix. If held by a Steelix, the Steelixite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Steelix if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Steelixite from Steelix. If held by a Steelix, the Steelixite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Steelix when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Steelix will remain a Mega Steelix until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Steelixite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Steelixite allows the player to Mega Evolve Steelix. The player can obtain the Steelixite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 5 of the event rotation The Steelixite was also available as a prize during the Mega Steelix competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Steelixite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Steelixite worn by Brock's Steelix appeared in When Regions Collide!, where Brock used it to Mega Evolve Steelix during his battle with Kiawe. The Steelixite didn't appear equipped on Steelix, but rather, it appeared on its head right before Mega Evolving.

Title: Pidgeotite

The Pidgeotite (Japanese: ピジョットナイト Pigeotnite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Pidgeot to Mega Evolve into Mega Pidgeot. If held by a Pidgeot (or is present in the player's Bag), the Pidgeotite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Pidgeot if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Pidgeotite from Pidgeot. If held by a Pidgeot, the Pidgeotite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Pidgeot when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Pidgeot will remain a Mega Pidgeot until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Pidgeotite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Pidgeotite allows the player to Mega Evolve Pidgeot. The player can obtain the Pidgeotite by reaching Trainer rank 12. The Pidgeotite was also available as a prize during the Mega Pidgeot competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Pidgeotite enables the following Mega Evolutions: The Pidgeotite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Glalitite

The Glalitite (Japanese: オニゴーリナイト Onigohrinite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Glalie to Mega Evolve into Mega Glalie. If held by a Glalie, the Glalitite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Glalie if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Glalitite from Glalie. If held by a Glalie, the Glalitite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Glalie when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Glalie will remain a Mega Glalie until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Glalitite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Glalitite allows the player to Mega Evolve Glalie and Winking Glalie. The player can obtain the Glalitite by defeating Mega Glalie in Stage 120 found on Mt. Vinter. The Glalitite enables the following Mega Evolutions: The Glalitite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Diancite

The Diancite (Japanese: ディアンシナイト Diancinite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Diancie to Mega Evolve into Mega Diancie. If held by a Diancie, the Diancite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Diancie if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Diancite from Diancie. If held by a Diancie, the Diancite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Diancie when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Diancie will remain a Mega Diancie until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Diancite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Diancite allows the player to Mega Evolve Diancie and Shiny Diancie. The player can obtain the Diancite by passing Level 50 on a Mega Diancie escalation battle in Weeks 10 and 11 of the event rotation. The Diancite was also available as a prize from Diancie escalation battles during the game's live service period: August 22 to September 5, 2017 (3DS and Mobile) (Boss was Shiny version) December 12 to 26, 2017 (3DS and Mobile) (Boss was Shiny version) The Diancite enables the following Mega Evolutions: In Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Ruby used Hoopa's ring to find a Diancite for Diancie to use in a Pokémon Contest Spectacular. This allowed him to Mega Evolve Diancie for his and Sapphire's performance.

Title: Prison Bottle

The Prison Bottle (Japanese: いましめのツボ Jar of Binding) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is used to transform Hoopa Confined to Hoopa Unbound. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Prison Bottle can be obtained through having Hoopa in the party and entering a Poké Mart. A new clerk will appear near the counter at the far left side. If the player interacts with this clerk, the game transitions to another view as the clerk tells the player a story. After his story, he will give the player the Prison Bottle. "Hey, do you have a minute for a story? This is something that happened when I was watching the store one time... It was, like, a totally dark night. Moonless. And I was all, "No way! This is so-o-o-o creepy!" Then, suddenly—whoosh! Out of nowhere, the automatic sliding door...slides open. And then this super-duper-scary old guy comes in, kinda unsteady, you know? Kinda shambling... So I'm thinking how terrible and scary is this, and then the old guy shuffles over to me... He has a package, like, clutched in his hands... He's mumbling that he has to show it to me... Then he asks, "Do you know what this is worth?" He keeps staring right at me and not even blinking. I was so freaked out. I was, like... "Oh yes. It's, uh, really something, isn't it?" So the old guy grins at me, and he says... "Then I'll just give you this instead of money. Now give me everything you've got in this store!" That's what he said! Really! I was like, "What is this? Too weird, my dude!" But I was scared, so I started shoveling over Potions and, like, whatever I could reach. I gave the dude everything for his stupid package. And out he goes, like, with a wicked grin on his face... As he's walking out, he says, "Three days... For a mere three days will Hoopa be unbound..." Really! I was all, "Stop freaking me out with this nonsense!" I was, like, sweating. The back of my shirt was soaked. Anyway, nothing I could do, so I open the package. It's just a dirty old bottle. Li-i-i-i-ike, really. So I go, "Weirdness. Wonder what's in it." I grab the stopper and carefully pull it loose. Blapt! It popped open, but there was nothing inside! So I figure I totally got fooled. ...Thanks for listening to my story. Know what? I'm gonna give you the bottle from that night 'cause you're so nice. It's not doing me any good anyway. Really." "Sometimes I wonder if it really is only a dirty old bottle. Those last words that the old guy said as he left... "For a mere three days will Hoopa be unbound..." Just can't seem to get that out of my head..." "Oh... You're that kid from that time... What did you end up doing with that old bottle? Though...I guess it doesn't matter anymore. Really. It's just, even now, it's still bugging me, you know? "For a mere three days will Hoopa be unbound..." That's what he said. I just can't seem to forget it..." When used from the Bag on a Hoopa Confined, it changes into Hoopa Unbound for three days. Hoopa Unbound also changes back to Hoopa Confined when deposited into the PC (prior to Generation VII), when withdrawn from the PC (Generation VII), when deposited into Pokémon Bank, or when deposited in Pokémon Day Care or the Pokémon Nursery. The Prison Bottle played a major role in the movie Hoopa and the Clash of Ages. One hundred years prior to the events of the movie, Hoopa Unbound caused great calamity in Dahara City with its battles against multiple Legendary Pokémon. Using the power of Arceus's Splash, Flame, and Earth Plates, a man named Ghris created the Prison Bottle, which he used to seal away Hoopa's Unbound power, before hiding it away. In the present time, Ghris's great-grandson, Baraz, found the bottle and unsealed it. However, upon touching the bottle, he was possessed by the dark power sealed inside. He then returned to Dahara City and opened the bottle, causing Hoopa to transform back into Hoopa Unbound. This caused Hoopa to go on a rampage once again, prompting Meray to reseal the Unbound power back into the bottle. The bottle was later stolen by Team Rocket, who wanted to get their hands on the power inside of it. This action allowed Hoopa Unbound to possess Meowth and force it to release it once again. With the help of Baraz and Meray, Hoopa was able to resist the dark power from taking over its body. However, the bottle then unexpectedly shattered into pieces, and the disembodied dark power formed into its own entity, a "shadow" of Hoopa. Baraz realized that the shadow was formed out of Hoopa's anger of being imprisoned for a hundred years, and it had destroyed the bottle to avoid being sealed away again. Knowing that the Prison Bottle could be remade, Baraz guided Meray, Clemont, Serena, and Bonnie to Dahara Tower, where they used Frogadier's Water Pulse, Braixen's Flamethrower, and a wild Hippopotas's Sand Attack to provide the same elements that had been used to create the bottle a hundred years earlier: Water, Fire, and Earth. The Prison Bottle was successfully recreated, and Hoopa's shadow was sealed inside it. Although the shadow temporarily took over Ash, Hoopa was able to drive away its dark power. This allowed Ash to use the bottle to grant Hoopa the power of Hoopa Unbound in order to save the people of Dahara City from a disturbance in space-time without losing control of itself. Afterwards, Hoopa was peacefully returned to Hoopa Confined. During the movie's ending credits, Meray was seen transforming Hoopa into Hoopa Unbound so that it could help rebuild the destroyed Dahara Tower. The Prison Bottle appeared in Hoopa and the Clash of Ages, fulfilling the same role as in the movie.

Title: Cameruptite

The Cameruptite (Japanese: バクーダナイト Bakuudanite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Camerupt to Mega Evolve into Mega Camerupt. If held by a Camerupt, the Cameruptite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Camerupt if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Cameruptite from Camerupt. If held by a Camerupt, the Cameruptite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Camerupt when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Camerupt will remain a Mega Camerupt until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Cameruptite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Cameruptite allows the player to Mega Evolve Camerupt. The player can obtain the Cameruptite by completing the competitive stage available in Week 15 of the event rotation. The Cameruptite was also available as a prize during the Mega Camerupt competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Cameruptite enables the following Mega Evolution: A Cameruptite appeared during Gurkinn's explanation about Mega Evolution in An Adventure of Mega Proportions!. In Blastoise Transforms, Maxie was revealed to have obtained a Cameruptite. After his apparent death, Blaise took possession of the Mega Stone. The Cameruptite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Lopunnite

The Lopunnite (Japanese: ミミロップナイト Mimilopnite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Lopunny to Mega Evolve into Mega Lopunny. If held by a Lopunny, the Lopunnite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Lopunny if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Lopunnite from Lopunny. If held by a Lopunny, the Lopunnite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Lopunny when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Lopunny will remain a Mega Lopunny until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Lopunnite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Lopunnite allows the player to Mega Evolve Lopunny. The player can obtain the Lopunnite by defeating Mega Lopunny in Stage 60 found on Rainbow Park. The Lopunnite enables the following Mega Evolution: The Lopunnite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Salamencite

The Salamencite (Japanese: ボーマンダナイト Bohmandanite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Salamence to Mega Evolve into Mega Salamence. If held by a Salamence, the Salamencite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Salamence if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Salamencite from Salamence. If held by a Salamence, the Salamencite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Salamence when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Salamence will remain a Mega Salamence until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Salamencite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Salamencite allows the player to Mega Evolve Salamence. The player can obtain the Salamencite by defeating Mega Salamence in Stage 530 found on Nacht Carnival. The Salamencite was also available as a prize during the Mega Salamence competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Salamencite enables the following Mega Evolution: In Salamence Evolves, Zinnia was revealed to own a Salamencite. She used it and her Mega Anklet to Mega Evolve her Salamence to battle Ruby and Latios. The Salamencite has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Beedrillite

The Beedrillite (Japanese: スピアナイト Speanite) is a type of held item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the Mega Stone that allows Beedrill to Mega Evolve into Mega Beedrill. If held by a Beedrill (or is present in the player's Bag), the Beedrillite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Beedrill if its Trainer has a Key Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). As a Mega Stone, it is unaffected by item-negating effects (such as Embargo and Klutz). Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give or remove a Beedrillite from Beedrill. If held by a Beedrill, the Beedrillite allows it to Mega Evolve into Mega Beedrill when it performs a Spectacular Talent during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular if its Trainer has a Key Stone. Beedrill will remain a Mega Beedrill until the Talent Round ends. Any Pokémon holding a Beedrillite in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire cannot be traded to Pokémon X and Y. In Pokémon Shuffle, the Beedrillite allows the player to Mega Evolve Beedrill. The player can obtain the Beedrillite by completing the Competitive stage available in Week 17 of the event rotation. The Beedrillite was also available as a prize during the Mega Beedrill competitive stage during the game's live service period: The Beedrillite enables the following Mega Evolution: In PS616, Giovanni was revealed to have obtained a Beedrillite. He used it to Mega Evolve his Beedrill as part of his explanation that the meteoroid threatening to destroy the world may be housing a Pokémon inside of it.

Title: Key Stone

If you were looking for the item that Spiritomb is bound to, see Odd Keystone. A Key Stone (Japanese: キーストーン Key Stone) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI, which is used to allow a Pokémon holding a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve. It is unobtainable in Generation VIII. When the Key Stone is activated, the Pokémon's corresponding Mega Stone reacts to it, starting the Mega Evolution process. Trainers often keep their Key Stone inside a personal accessory, such as a Mega Ring, Mega Bracelet, Z-Ring, or Z-Power Ring, though there are exceptions to this. Despite being integral to the Mega Evolution phenomenon, little is known about the origin of Key Stones. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Key Stones, along with Mega Stones, seem to have a strong connection to the meteoroids that rained down on the Hoenn region millenia ago. Matt and Professor Cozmo found a Key Stone and a Galladite, respectively, in Meteor Falls, an area known for having been struck by meteors in the distant past. According to the lore passed down by the Draconids, as told by Zinnia at Sky Pillar, a huge, brilliant meteoroid that struck the planet 1,000 years ago, creating the crater where currently lies Sootopolis City, allowed for Rayquaza to respond to the people's wishes for salvation during a time of desperate need and undergo the world's first-ever Mega Evolution—in this sense, the meteoroid acted as a Key Stone. Maxie/Archie also considers the possibility of altering the Meteorite's qualities to those of a Key or Mega Stone. Unlike Mega Stones, Key Stones have not been associated with the firing of the ultimate weapon in Kalos. An old legend associated with the Tower of Mastery speaks of a Trainer and Lucario finding the first known Key Stone and Mega Stone in the area. According to a loading screen text in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Key Stones work by amplifying the bonds between Trainer and Pokémon, enabling them to channel the power of Mega Evolution. The Key Stone allows the player to Mega Evolve their Pokémon if they hold the appropriate Mega Stone. A Trainer can only Mega Evolve one Pokémon per battle (or only have one Mega-Evolved Pokémon at any given moment). In Pokémon X and Y, Calem/Serena's Key Stone is embedded in their black Mega Ring. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Brendan/May's Key Stone is embedded in their Mega Bracelet. During Pokémon Contest Spectaculars, Brandon and May instead equip a Mega Cuff and Mega Charm, respectively. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, Elio/Selene's Key Stone in held in their Z-Ring/Z-Power Ring. The Key Stone, however, doesn't appear on the player's model. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Chase/Elaine doesn't keep their Key Stone in any accessory, and it doesn't appear on the player's model. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Paxton/Harmony's Key Stone is embedded in their golden Mega Ring. Many non-player characters keep their Key Stones in special items, many of which differ from the items that the player can use. Korrina uses a Mega Glove (Japanese: メガグローブ Mega Glove), a white fingerless glove with a red cuff which she wears on her left hand. The Key Stone is set into the back of the glove. Lysandre uses a Mega Ring (Japanese: メガリング Mega Ring), a silver ring which he wears on his left middle finger. The Key Stone is set into the ring using a bezel. Diantha uses a Mega Charm (Japanese: メガチャーム Mega Charm), a necklace with a golden spiked ornament. The Key Stone is set into the curved part of the charm. Steven Stone uses a Mega Stickpin (Japanese: メガラペルピン Mega Lapel Pin). The Key Stone is set in the stickpin's bezel, which he wears on his jacket's left lapel. Wally uses a Mega Pendant (Japanese: メガペンダント Mega Pendant). It consists of a silver ornament on a chain, with the Key Stone set in the middle of the ornament. Archie uses a Mega Anchor (Japanese: メガイカリ Mega Anchor). It consists of a golden anchor chain which he wears around his neck. The Key Stone is set into the anchor's ring. Maxie uses Mega Glasses (Japanese: メガメガネ Mega Glasses). They are a pair of half-rim glasses with thick black frames, and the Key Stone set into the connection between the frame and the temples on the right side. Lisia uses a Mega Tiara (Japanese: メガティアラ Mega Tiara). It is a blue hair-clip consisting of three overlapping diamonds, with the Key Stone set into its middle. Zinnia uses a Mega Anklet (Japanese: メガアンクレット Mega Anklet). It is a teal metallic anklet which wraps around her right calf. The Key Stone is set into one of the indentations at the top of the anklet. Courtney and Matt use Mega Rings during the Delta Episode, which are not seen on their artwork. Sidney, Phoebe, Glacia, and Drake use generic Key Stones after the Delta Episode, which are not seen on their artwork. Sina and Dexio use white Mega Rings that they each wear around their left wrist. Some opponents at the Battle Tree and Battle Royal Dome use generic Key Stones, which do not show up on their models. All opponents that can Mega Evolve their Pokémon use generic Key Stones, which do not show up on their models. Urbain/Taunie, Naveen, and Lida use golden Mega Rings that they each wear around their left wrist. Emma's Key Stone is embedded in the chest of her Expansion Suit. Vinnie's Key Stone is embedded in the palm of his left glove. Tarragon's Key Stone is embedded in his construction helmet. Canari's Key Stone is attached to the front zipper on her crop-top. Ivor's Key Stone is embedded on the back of his right glove. Corbeau and Philippe have their Key Stones set on their silver Rust Syndicate lapel pins, which they wear on their suit jackets. Lebanne's Key Stone is fixed to the choker which she wears as part of her outfit. Grisham, Griselle, and L's use a Mega Ring, like Lysandre's in Pokémon X and Y. Grisham and Griselle wear theirs on the middle finger of their left hands, while L keeps his in his pocket. All opponents that can Mega Evolve their Pokémon in the Z-A Royale use generic Key Stones, which do not show up on their models. The player obtains a Mega Key after completing the Raid of the Mighty General challenge. In Mega Evolution Special I, Alain was seen wearing a Mega Ring similar to that of the protagonists of Pokémon X and Y. He uses it to Mega Evolve his Charizard into Mega Charizard X. In Mega Evolution Special II, it was revealed that he received it from Lysandre. After the Team Flare crisis, Alain gave his Mega Ring to the authorities to be used as evidence and resolved to find himself a new Key Stone on his own. In the same episode, Astrid was shown wearing her Key Stone as an earring on her right ear, while Remo had his Key Stone embedded into the tip of the umbrella that he carries with him. Siebold, a member of the Kalos Elite Four, was seen wearing his Key Stone in his necktie. Astrid's Key Stone made a brief reappearance during the opening credits of Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction. In The Bonds of Evolution!, Diantha tapped into the power of her Mega Charm to Mega Evolve her Gardevoir, giving it the power to break free from Team Rocket's clutches. The Mega Charm has also been seen during Diantha's subsequent appearances. In Mega Revelations!, Korrina was shown wearing her Key Stone in her Mega Glove, having received it from her grandfather. However, her Lucario lacked the Lucarionite, meaning that she wasn't able to use it yet. After obtaining a Lucarionite in The Cave of Trials!, she was soon able to use her Key Stone in order to Mega Evolve her Lucario. In The Aura Storm!, Gurkinn uses a Key Stone to Mega Evolve his own Lucario. Similar to Korrina, he wears it in a glove on his left hand. A Key Stone possessed by Mabel appeared in The Bonds of Mega Evolution!. Embedded in her walking stick, she uses it to Mega Evolve her Mawile into Mega Mawile. In Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction, a diamond Diancie had created and given to Bonnie earlier caused it to Mega Evolve, acting as a Key Stone. At the end of the movie, Bonnie returned the diamond to Diancie. Mega Evolution Special II featured Steven Stone and his Mega Stickpin. Alain was able to recognize the Key Stone on the Champion's person, leading him to challenge Steven to a battle. In the same episode, a giant Key Stone was discovered by Steven and Alain. While Lysandre's scientists were inspecting it, Rayquaza appeared and used the Key Stone's power to Mega Evolve into Mega Rayquaza. Soon after, it disappeared along with the chaos created by Rayquaza's Draco Meteor. The stone reappeared in Mega Evolution Special III, along with Mega Rayquaza. It was eventually taken away by Lysandre's submarine to be studied at the Lysandre Labs. In Garchomp's Mega Bond!, it was revealed that Professor Sycamore had found a Key Stone along with a piece of Garchompite. He uses them to Mega Evolve his Garchomp. In the same episode, it was revealed that Blaziken Mask keeps his Key Stone embedded in his belt buckle. Multiple Key Stones appeared in Mega Evolution Special IV. A Trainer with a Mega Venusaur has his Key Stone inside of a pocket watch, a Mega Alakazam Trainer wears his Key Stone on his turban, Malva carries her Key Stone in a necklace, a Mega Banette Trainer has his embedded on his Banette puppet, and Lysandre has his Key Stone embedded in a Mega Ring he wears on his left hand. A Key Stone belonging to Wulfric appeared in A Real Icebreaker!. The Snowbelle City Gym Leader keeps his Key Stone inside of the locket he wears around his neck, and uses it to Mega Evolve his Abomasnow. In A League of His Own!, Trevor was revealed to have a Key Stone embedded on his camera's shutter button. With it, he is able to Mega Evolve his Charizard into Mega Charizard Y. In Valuable Experience for All!, Sawyer was revealed to have a Key Stone attached on the end of his notebook latch. He uses it to Mega Evolve his Sceptile. In The First Day of the Rest of Your Life!, Sawyer revealed that he received his Key Stone from Steven. A Key Stone held by Kimia appeared in Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel, wearing it on a bracelet around her left wrist. She uses it to Mega Evolve her Shiny Gardevoir. A Key Stone belonging to Brock, located on a necklace under his shirt, and a Key Stone belonging to Misty, located on her hair band, appeared in When Regions Collide!. They use them to Mega Evolve their Steelix and Gyarados, respectively. In The Prism Between Light and Darkness!, Gozu was revealed to own a Key Stone embedded in a dog tag that is kept hidden under his Team Rocket uniform. He uses it to Mega Evolve his Aggron. In Battling Besties!, Ilima was revealed to possess a Key Stone, which is attached to a string he can wear around his wrist. He uses it to Mega Evolve his Kangaskhan. In An Adventure of Mega Proportions!, Ash received a Mega Glove from Korrina. The Key Stone enhanced the Aura of both Ash and his Lucario, and also allowed them to locate the Mega Stone for the Aura Pokémon. After obtaining the Mega Stone, Ash became able to Mega Evolve his Lucario. Ash wears his Key Stone in a glove on his left wrist. Gurkinn was also show using a new Key Stone accessory while disguised, wearing it on a beard ring. He used it to Mega Evolve his Alakazam. In Taking Two For The Team!, Drasna was shown to own a Key Stone, which she wears in a bracer around her right wrist. She uses it to Mega Evolve her Altaria. In Reuniting for the First Time!, Lisia used her Mega Tiara to Mega Evolve her Altaria, Ali, during the Lilycove City Pokémon Contest Spectacular. In Curtain Up! Fight the Fights!, Alain was revealed to have acquired a new Mega Ring. In The Fiery Road to Mastership!, Cynthia was revealed to own a Key Stone, which is embedded in a tube of her lipstick. She uses it to Mega Evolve her Garchomp. In Where the Adventure Leads, Roy was revealed to be in possession of a Key Stone on a Mega Ring. In Eyes to the Skies Once Again (Part One), it is revealed that both Roy and his rival Ult gained their Key Stones and Mega Rings during their training together in the Kalos region. In Mega Evolution - Roy, it was revealed the received their Mega Rings from Master Mayonnaise. In Mega Evolution - Ult, Emma was shown to own a Key Stone on a Mega Ring. In HZ122, Friede was revealed to have obtained a Key Stone on a Mega Ring. In HZ130, Chalce was revealed to possess a Key Stone on a Mega Ring. In HZ131, Master Mayonnaise was shown using a Key Stone on a Mega Ring. In File 2: Cubone, after helping drive off driving Team Rocket out of the Pokémon Tower and helping the ghost of Marowak find peace, Red received a Key Stone and a Charizardite X from Mr. Fuji. The Key Stone and Mega Stone activated in File 4: Charizard during Red's showdown with Mewtwo, Mega Evolving his trusted first partner Pokémon, Charizard, into Mega Charizard X and giving them the strength to weaken Mewtwo so that Red could catch it. This Key Stone was not worn in any accessory. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer In the Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer, Brendan and May were seen wearing their Mega Bracelets. They used them to Mega Evolve the Hoenn first partner Pokémon. In The Vision, Brendan and Maxie were seen wearing their Mega Bracelet and Mega Glasses, respectively. Furthermore, Archie could be seen wearing his Mega Anchor in The Cavern. None of them were seen using their Key Stones, however. In The Visionary, Lysandre used his Mega Ring to Mega Evolve his Gyarados during his battle against Calem. Calem and Serena were also seen wearing a Mega Ring each, but they were not seen using them. In The Wish, May was shown to own a Mega Bracelet, while Zinnia was shown to possess a Mega Anklet and four stolen Key Stones, which she used to summon Rayquaza. May later used her Mega Bracelet to Mega Evolve her Swampert to battle Rayquaza, and Rayquaza itself once she had caught it. In Bonding with Kangaskhan, Karimna was shown to keep her Key Stone on a ring around her finger. She used it to Mega Evolve her Kangaskhan to protect her daughter Yurado from falling off a table. In Another Day with Gardevoir, Yugo was shown to carry his Key Stone on his necklace. He used it to Mega Evolve his Gardevoir to clear a landslide. In the same episode, another Trainer was shown with a Key Stone on a Mega Ring. In PT20, Kamina received a necklace containing a Key Stone from Rene. She used it to Mega Evolve her Altaria during the Grand Prix. X was given a Mega Ring with a Key Stone inside from Gurkinn as a child. With it, he can Mega Evolve his Li'l Kanga, Salamè, Élec, Garma, and Rute, into Mega Kangaskhan, Mega Charizard X, Mega Manectric, Mega Gengar, and Mega Pinsir, respectively. Those taught by Gurkinn, the Mega Evolution guru, tend to use Mega Gloves. This includes Korrina, three unnamed students, and Gurkinn himself. Gurkinn stated that he gave Key Stones to 16 people through a Mega Evolution successor ceremony, with X being the sole exception. He later gave his Key Stone to Y, thus making her a successor as well. At Lysandre Café in Lumiose City, Diantha shields Y and her friends from Lysandre's Pokémon by using her Mega Charm to Mega Evolve her Gardevoir into Mega Gardevoir. Lysandre later obtains a Mega Ring from Malva outfitted with a Key Stone stolen from Korrina. At the Lost Hotel, Y is made a Mega Evolution successor by Gurkinn. She is given a Mega Ring outfitted with the Key Stone from Gurkinn's Mega Glove. With it, she can Mega Evolve her Solsol into Mega Absol. Blue is later revealed to be a successor as well, keeping his Key Stone on a ring. When not in use, Blue wears the ring around his neck as a pendant. With it, he can Mega Evolve his Charizard into Mega Charizard Y. Blaine later appears at the Pokémon Village, revealed to have reunited with Mewtwo. He had gained a Key Stone sometime prior and placed it in his cane, using it to Mega Evolve Mewtwo into either Mega Mewtwo Y or Mega Mewtwo X. Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald acquired Mega Bracelets from Ultima and Steven in preparation for another disaster coming to Hoenn. In Claydol Unleashes, Ruby successfully used his Mega Bracelet and Latios's Latiosite to Mega Evolve the Eon Pokémon and soar with it to the Sky Pillar. Many members of the Draconid people possess Key Stones, such as Zinnia, Renza, Jinga, Tomatoma, and the Meteor Village Elder. While Zinnia keeps her Key Stone in her Mega Anklet, Renza, Jinga, and Tomatoma keep theirs in arm bands, similar to Zinnia's anklet, while the Elder keeps hers in a walking cane. When battling Ruby and Sapphire, Zinnia wears a second Mega Anklet that originally belonged to Aster. In Hoopa Distorts, Steven Mega Evolved his Metagross into Mega Metagross with his Mega Stickpin. In PS616, he reveals that he is a Mega Evolution successor, having obtained the Key Stone from Gurkinn. He later gives Zinnia a jar of Key Stones belonging to Aster that were taken from the Embedded Tower. In Blastoise Transforms, Maxie and Archie used their Mega Glasses and Mega Anchor to Mega Evolve their Camerupt and Sharpedo respectively. After Maxie and Archie disappeared from exhausting the energy keeping their bodies stable, Blaise and Amber took their Key Stones and Mega-Evolving Pokémon. When battling against Maxie and Archie, Red and Green used rings with patterns similar to the Mega Bracelets to Mega Evolve Saur and Blasty respectively to battle them. Though their rings resemble the one owned by Blue, it is unknown where they received them. In PS616, Giovanni was revealed to have a Key Stone placed in the "R" of his chest pocket. With it, he can Mega Evolve his Beedrill. In Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Ruby used his Mega Cuff to Mega Evolve Diancie for a Contest Appeal. The Key Stone items used by NPCs exist within the data of Pokémon X and Y and Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. They have a sprite (a white question mark), but cannot be obtained in normal gameplay. Their names are displayed in the in-battle text when NPCs Mega Evolve their Pokémon, "The opposing <Pokémon>'s <Mega Stone> is reacting to <Trainer>'s <Key Stone item>!". In Generation VI, before battle with a non-player character that can use Mega Evolution, the Key Stone accessory is often shown off. For Trainers that use VS sprites (such as Korrina and Diantha), often the Key Stone is clearly visible in the zoomed-in VS sprite. For Trainers that use 3D models (such as Lysandre and Zinnia), the camera often starts by focusing on the Key Stone before zooming out to show the full body. Some Trainers, such as Calem/Serena and Brendan/May, have the Key Stone accessory visible on their 3D model, but it is not focused on. However, other Trainers, such as Courtney, Matt and the Hoenn Elite Four, do not have visible Key Stones at all. Secret Base Trainers have no visible indication of possessing a Key Stone.

Title: Meteorite Shard

The Meteorite Shard (Japanese: いんせきのかけら Meteorite Shard) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VI. In the Delta Episode, this Meteorite Shard is key to Professor Cozmo's plan to divert the asteroid that is on a collision course with the planet. After the player receives it from Zinnia, they are to deliver it to the Professor and Steven at the Mossdeep Space Center. Professor Cozmo also requests a purer shard later, but this one is discovered by Steven at Meteor Falls, and the player does not interact with that shard as he delivers it to Professor Cozmo.

Title: Eon Flute

The Eon Flute (Japanese: むげんのふえ Infinity Flute) is a Key Item introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is one of the legendary artifacts that is associated with Latias and Latios. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, this item is initially in Steven's possession. He gives it to the player after ending the world disaster caused by Groudon/Kyogre. In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, when the Eon Flute is played, it summons Latios or Latias to soar in the sky above Hoenn, and fly to any city, route, or island. In Latias Flies, Ruby used the Eon Flute on Southern Island to call Latias and Latios. It was also implied that the Eon Flute had previously been under Emerald's possession.

Title: Bottle Cap

The Bottle Cap (Japanese: ぎんのおうかん Silver Bottle Cap) is a type of exchangeable item introduced in Generation VII. The Gold Bottle Cap is a more valuable version of it. Can be traded to Mr. Hyper, a League Staff attendant, a Veteran, a man with an Abomasnow, or a Fist of Justice attendant to maximize one of a Pokémon's IVs in Hyper Training. Bottle Caps, called Silver Bottle Caps, were introduced to Pokémon GO on November 10, 2025, available from GO Pass Deluxe: Into the Wild. Using a Silver Bottle Cap on a Pokémon will initiate Hyper Training to increase one of the Pokémon's IVs by completing certain tasks. Like Lucky Trinkets, they must be used by a certain deadline, upon which they will be removed from the player's Bag. Unlike in the core series, the player can choose to what extent the Silver Bottle Cap will increase each IV. Once Hyper Training has begun, the player has 365 days to complete the training. Silver Bottle Caps can only be used on Good Buddies or higher, and they can't be used on Shadow Pokémon or Pokémon with all three IVs at maximum. In one of his possible Pokémon Center interactions in Pokémon Masters EX, James expresses his disappointment in Trainers using their Bottle Caps to Hyper Train their Pokémon instead of collecting them. This is a reference to James's habit of collecting bottle caps in Pokémon the Series. The Japanese name of おうかん ōkan can mean "crown" or "bottle cap". This is referenced in the Bottle Cap's design, which incorporates a crown. The Korean and Chinese translations retain the "crown" meaning despite having different words for "bottle cap", since the item names in those languages were directly transcribed from Japanese.

Title: Gold Bottle Cap

The Gold Bottle Cap (Japanese: きんのおうかん Gold Bottle Cap) is a type of exchangeable item introduced in Generation VII. It is a more valuable version of the Bottle Cap. Can be traded to Mr. Hyper, a League Staff attendant, a Veteran, a man with an Abomasnow, or a Fist of Justice attendant to maximize all of a Pokémon's IVs in Hyper Training. Gold Bottle Caps were introduced to Pokémon GO on June 23, 2025, available from GO Pass Deluxe: Ancients Recovered. Using a Gold Bottle Cap on a Pokémon will initiate Hyper Training to increase up to all three of the Pokémon's IVs by completing certain tasks. Like Lucky Trinkets, they must be used by a certain deadline, upon which they will be removed from the player's Bag. Unlike in the core series, the player can choose to what extent the Gold Bottle Cap will increase each IV. Once Hyper Training has begun, the player has 365 days to complete the training. Gold Bottle Caps can only be used on Good Buddies or higher, and they can't be used on Shadow Pokémon or Pokémon with all three IVs at maximum. Gold Bottle Caps are seen in the illustration of the Special Full Art print of the Galarian Perrserker V card from the Lost Origin expansion. The Japanese name of おうかん ōkan can mean "crown" or "bottle cap". This is referenced in the Gold Bottle Cap's design, which incorporates a crown. The Korean and Chinese translations retain the "crown" meaning despite having different words for "bottle cap", since the item names in those languages were directly transcribed from Japanese.

Title: Forage Bag

The Forage Bag (Japanese: ざいりょうぶくろ Ingredient Bag) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is used to store items collected in the course of Mallow's trial in Lush Jungle. Stores items collected in the course of Mallow's trial in Lush Jungle. In Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, Mallow's schoolbag is based on the Forage Bag.

Title: Fishing Rod

This article is about the item named Fishing Rod. For other fishing rods, see Old Rod, Good Rod, and Super Rod. The Fishing Rod (Japanese: つりざお Fishing Rod) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It allows the player to fish. Allows the player to fish in piles of rocks at the bottom of water. When fishing, the player may find a Pokémon, an item, or nothing. The player can fish while standing on land or while riding Lapras Surf; they cannot fish from Sharpedo Jet. In each area that has fishing spots, at least one of the rock piles has bubbles seeping from it to the surface; if the player fishes at this spot while bubbles are emerging from it, they are more likely to encounter Pokémon that are normally rare to find in fishing spots in that area. As soon as the player reels in their line after they find any Pokémon or item from a bubbling spot, the bubbles will disappear until the player re-enters the area. The bubbles also disappear if the player moves too quickly near the spot, if they move over it, or if they reel in their rod too early. If the bubbles are not present, the fishing spot functions the same as all other fishing spots in the area. In the Alola region, there are fishing spots at Seaward Cave, Kala'e Bay, Melemele Sea, Paniola Town, Brooklet Hill, Akala Outskirts, Malie Garden, Secluded Shore, Seafolk Village, Poni Wilds, Poni Breaker Coast, Vast Poni Canyon, Poni Meadow, Poni Gauntlet, and Routes 7, 8, 9, 13, 14 and 15. Allows the player to fish at shadows in the water. In the Galar region, there are fishing spots at Motostoke, Hulbury, the Slumbering Weald, Galar Mine No. 2, and Routes 2, 4, 5, 6, and 9. The Wild Area also has several fishing spots, at East Lake Axewell, West Lake Axewell, Axew's Eye, South Lake Miloch, the Giant's Seat, North Lake Miloch, the Motostoke Riverbank, Bridge Field, the Dusty Bowl, the Giant's Mirror, the Giant's Cap, and the Lake of Outrage. The Isle of Armor has fishing spots at the Fields of Honor, the Soothing Wetlands, the Forest of Focus, Challenge Beach, the Courageous Cavern, Loop Lagoon, the Training Lowlands, the Workout Sea, the Stepping-Stone Sea, the Insular Sea, the Honeycalm Sea, and Honeycalm Island. The Crown Tundra has fishing spots at the Giant's Bed, Snowslide Slope, the Giant's Foot, the Frigid Sea, and Ballimere Lake. The following is a list of cards featuring the Fishing Rod in the Pokémon Trading Card Game.

Title: Festival Ticket

A Festival Ticket (Japanese: フェスチケット Festicket) is an item introduced in Generation VII. Festival Tickets are used to host a mission in Festival Plaza. Fling fails if the user is holding a Festival Ticket.

Title: Sparkling Stone

The Sparkling Stone (Japanese: かがやくいし Sparkling Stone) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII and the raw material needed to create a Z-Ring/Z-Power Ring. They are given to the island kahuna by the tapu to turn into a Z-Ring/Z-Power Ring and then gifted to worthy Pokémon Trainers. Rarely, some Trainers may be given one directly by the tapu instead, as is the case with the player. According to Professor Kukui and Lillie, Sparkling Stones are actually parts of Necrozma's body that were lost due to the actions of the Ultra Recon Squad's ancestors. These parts then came to Alola after passing through an Ultra Wormhole. They share these traits with Z-Crystals. The player receives a Sparkling Stone from Tapu Koko in recognition of their bravery in protecting Nebby from a swarm of wild Spearow. After the player defeats Hau for the first time or simply returns to Iki Town, Hala recognizes the stone, and upon realizing that the player has been recognized by the guardian deity of Melemele Island, offers to refine it. The player receives the finished product, a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring, after completing the ceremony battle with Hau. Another, unobtainable Sparkling Stone is given to Hapu by Tapu Fini when the former is made the island kahuna of Poni Island. She later fastens it into her own Z-Ring/Z-Power Ring. This Sparkling Stone is colored brown, unlike the white/black one the player received earlier. The player needs to give this item to Hala in Iki Town so that he can make the player a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring out of it. In Treasure Hunt, Akala Style!, Lana found a Sparkling Stone, termed in the episode as a Z-Ring ore (Japanese: Ｚリングのゲンセキ Z-Ring Ore), during a Stoutland Search treasure hunt set up by Olivia for Ash and his classmates. Olivia took the stone and turned it into a Z-Ring, which she gave to Lana in the next episode. In The Delivery of Rotom and the Girl, Sun received a Sparkling Stone from Tapu Koko. In The Party Crasher and Guzma the Destroyer, Sun used the Sparkling Stone as a splint for his broken arm. When Sun was angered by Gladion in The Final Match and a Surprising Finale!, his Sparkling Stone accidentally absorbed Z-Power from a nearby Ultra Wormhole, allowing Sun's Litten, Dollar, to use the Z-Move Inferno Overdrive, defeating Gladion's Type: Null. Due to the strain of using the attack, Sun immediately passed out from exhaustion. Afterwards, Hala took the Sparkling Stone in order to convert it into a Z-Ring for Sun to use. Once completed, Hala had Kahili deliver it to Sun at the Ruins of Life. In The Wild Full-Power Pose of Fire, Kiawe was revealed to own a Z-Ring, which he received as a Sparkling Stone from Tapu Lele five years earlier. In order to prevent Sun from using Inferno Overdrive against him again, Gladion had his Type: Null shatter Kiawe's Z-Ring when the latter attempted to lend it to Sun, leaving only the Sparkling Stone intact. In The Truth and Island Kahuna Hapu, Hapu received a Sparkling Stone from Tapu Fini after it accepted her as the next kahuna of Poni Island. In Shock!! Father in the Pendant!, Hau revealed that, in the midst of his training, he had managed to obtain a Sparkling Stone, which Olivia had fashioned into a Z-Ring for him. Lillie, Hala, Hapu, and the book, The Tapu and the Island Kahunas, all incorrectly use lower case for the item name in Pokémon Sun and Moon. This was fixed in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Adrenaline Orb

The Adrenaline Orb (Japanese: ビビリだま Scare Orb) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag during battle, makes wild Pokémon more likely to call allies for help in an SOS Battle. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, wild Pokémon will only call an ally once per battle unless the player uses an Adrenaline Orb. It is consumed after use, and can only be used once per battle. If used repeatedly, Adrenaline Orb will fail and will not be consumed. If the holder is affected by Intimidate, it consumes the Adrenaline Orb and its Speed is increased by one stage. It is not consumed if the holder already has +6 Speed stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it won't activate if the holder has -6 Speed stat stages). It is activated even if the holder is not affected by Intimidate due to its Ability (e.g. Hyper Cutter) or Mist, but will not activate if the holder is not affected because it already has -6 Attack stat stages (or +6 in the case of Contrary). If multiple Pokémon each holding an Adrenaline Orb are affected by Intimidate, each Pokémon will be affected by Intimidate and consume their Adrenaline Orb before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Adrenaline Orbs).

Title: Zygarde Cube

The Zygarde Cube (Japanese: ジガルデキューブ Zygarde Cube) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It stores Zygarde Cells and Cores. It allows Zygarde to change between its 10% Forme or its 50% Forme. It can be used to teach Zygarde its signature moves. It can be used to change Zygarde's abilities between Aura Break or Power Construct. It can also be used in conjunction with the Reassembly Unit to assemble a new Zygarde. The Zygarde Cube was apparently found by Professor Sycamore. The Zygarde Cube stores Zygarde Cells and Cores for the player to use with the Reassembly Unit. The Zygarde Cube can hold a maximum of 999 Cells and Cores (by using the Reassembly Unit's separation function). It can be used to switch a Zygarde with the Ability Power Construct between its 10% and 50% Formes. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, Cells and Cores can be found in most locations in Alola, but none are present until the player obtains the Zygarde Cube. There are 95 Cells and 5 Cores to be found across the Alola region. They appear as small sparks of light on the ground, with Cells shining green and Cores shining pink. If the Zygarde Cube is full, the player can still collect Cells and Cores from the field. If the player selects the "Check" option on the Zygarde Cube, it will tell them how many Cells and Cores they have collected from the locations in their game and how many they currently have in total. As the player reaches certain collection milestones, Dexio and Sina will contact the player to explain the Zygarde Cube, Cells, and Cores. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, no Zygarde Cells or Cores are found in the field, and the player obtains the Zygarde Cube after catching the 50% Forme Zygarde in Resolution Cave and obtaining a 10% Forme Zygarde from Dexio afterwards, with the Cube already containing 40 Cells and Cores when obtained. This effectively gives the player 100 Cells and Cores to use with the Reassembly Unit (if they separate at least one of the Zygarde). The Zygarde Cube can teach five moves to Zygarde. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, the player must find specific Zygarde Cores to be able to teach each move. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, all five moves are teachable as soon as the Zygarde Cube is received. The Zygarde Cube no longer teaches Zygarde moves. Zygarde can instead learn its signature moves any time as level 1 moves via Jack's Move Reminding service, and Dragon Dance via TR51; it is no longer possible for it to learn Extreme Speed in Generation VIII unless one is transferred over from a Generation VII game through Pokémon HOME. However, it can learn Extreme Speed again at level 81 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. The Zygarde Cube can be used to change Zygarde into its 10% or 50% Forme and to switch its Ability between Aura Break and Power Construct (Ability Capsules and Ability Patches have no effect on Zygarde). The Zygarde Cube allows the player to store up to 300* Zygarde Cells, which can be used to change Zygarde's form. The Zygarde Cube can only be obtained by completing 3/8 of the Special Research set From A to Zygarde. The Zygarde Cube debuted in Following Traces of Laquium, where Hamber demonstrated it to Zirc and Onia with his Shiny Zygarde Cell, which immediately climbed inside. He then handed the artifact to them to help them find the White Zygarde. Later, in Charcadet's Wish, Zirc gave the Zygarde Cube to Amethio, with the hope of finding the White Zygarde's Cells in order to stop Spinel's selfish plan. The Zygarde Cube first appeared in Confusion and Monsters from Another World. Sun was hired by Sina and Dexio to assist them in finding the remaining Cells and Cores of Zygarde scattered across Alola. To aid him in this job, Dexio gave Sun the Zygarde Cube in order to store any Cells and Cores he could find. Despite being called a cube, the Zygarde Cube far more closely resembles a truncated octahedron. Both, however, exhibit octahedral symmetry, as can be seen by comparing the squares on the Zygarde Cube and the fact they can be made to align perfectly with the faces of an actual cube. As seen in its concept art, the Zygarde Cube is mostly black while empty, but begins to glow more green as it is filled with Zygarde Cells and Cores.

Title: Ice Stone

The Ice Stone (Japanese: こおりのいし Ice Stone) is a type of Evolution stone introduced in Generation VII. Can be used to evolve one of several Pokémon. This consumes the Ice Stone. Causes Alolan Sandshrew to evolve into Alolan Sandslash Causes Alolan Vulpix to evolve into Alolan Ninetales Causes Eevee to evolve into Glaceon (Generation VIII+) The Ice Stone cannot be used to evolve Eevee with the Gigantamax Factor into Glaceon. Causes Galarian Darumaka to evolve into Galarian Darmanitan Causes Crabrawler to evolve into Crabominable (Generation IX+) The Ice Stone is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Alolan Vulpix requires 80 Vulpix Candy and an Ice Stone to evolve into Alolan Ninetales. Eevee requires 80 Eevee Candy and an Ice Stone to evolve into Glaceon. An Ice Stone was first seen in Not Caving Under Pressure!, where Sophocles's Charjabug found one while helping to fix up a cave inhabited by a group of Alolan Sandshrew, revealing that the cave was in fact an Ice Stone mine where Sandshrew gather to evolve. The leader of the Sandshrew pack, a giant Sandshrew, touched the stone and proceeded to evolve into an Alolan Sandslash. Later, after exiting the cave, Charjabug was revealed to have found another Ice Stone, which Sophocles gave to Lillie. She asked Snowy if it wanted to use the stone to evolve, but Snowy didn't feel ready for it yet, so Lillie decided to hold on to the stone in case Snowy ever changed its mind. The Ice Stone has been featured along with the other Evolution stones in the merchandise collection of the same name. An Ice Stone has also been released with a keychain of Alolan Vulpix. The Ice Stone was first revealed by a picture on the official Spanish Pokémon website on October 4, 2016. However, the picture was quickly removed due to the stone not having been previously announced. Data for the Ice Stone exists in Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and Eevee is programmed to be able to evolve into Glaceon using it, even though it is unobtainable in those games.

Title: Beast Ball

The Beast Ball (Japanese: ウルトラボール Ultra Ball) is a type of Poké Ball introduced in Generation VII. It can be used to catch a wild Pokémon, being more likely to succeed against Ultra Beasts and less likely against other Pokémon. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, Beast Balls were developed by Faba of the Aether Foundation, building on the work of a predecessor. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, they were created through cooperation between the Aether Foundation and the Ultra Recon Squad. When used from the Bag in a wild encounter, it attempts to catch the wild Pokémon. If the wild Pokémon is an Ultra Beast, it has a 5× catch rate modifier; otherwise, it has a 410/4096× (~0.1×) modifier. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the modifier is used as 0.1 directly, rather than being estimated as a multiple of 1/4096. Beast Balls cannot be used in situations in which Poké Balls cannot be used, such as in wild battles with two or more opponents currently present or against a trial Pokémon. If used in a Trainer battle, the opposing Trainer will bat the ball away, wasting the player's turn. Lusamine is seen releasing a Nihilego from a Beast Ball in a cutscene before merging with it. Ultra Recon Squad members keep their Pokémon in Beast Balls. The Poipole the player obtains in the Max Lair is kept in a Beast Ball. In Pokémon GO, the Beast Ball is a special, event-exclusive Poké Ball used only during Ultra Beast encounters. They have a ×20 catch rate multiplier. The catch multiplier applies for catching Necrozma too. Currently, the Beast Ball is only available in Pokémon GO during specific in-game events. When these events are active, Beast Balls are the only kind of Poké Ball that can be used to capture an Ultra Beast. For Raid Battle bonus challenges, players will be given a set of Beast Balls in place of Premier Balls. For Research and GO Battle League reward encounters, players will have an infinite supply of Beast Balls. Due to a possible bug, Berries cannot be used during Ultra Beast encounter. Like the Premier Ball, it is never put into the player's Bag and cannot be kept after the encounter. Beast Balls debuted in A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, where the Aether Foundation provided many of them for Ash and his classmates to use during their Ultra Guardians missions. In the same episode, Ash used one of them to temporarily catch a Buzzwole. In Love at First Twirl!, Ash used almost every Beast Ball provided to the group to try and catch a Poipole in order to take care of it until the location of its Ultra Wormhole could be discovered. He eventually succeeded with the last one in the box. In Rise and Shine, Starship!, Ash and Kiawe tried to use Beast Balls to catch a Celesteela, but they both failed due to it being rooted down to the ground at the time. In Twirling with a Bang!, Lana and Lillie used a pair of Beast Balls to temporarily catch a Xurkitree and a Blacephalon, respectively. In The Long Vault Home!, Ash, Lana, Kiawe, and Mallow each tried to catch a Stakataka with multiple Beast Balls, but it effortlessly dodged them all. Eventually, Ash was able to successfully catch Stakataka after getting rid of the statue that had been placed on top of its body and convincing it that they were going to return it to its home. In Beauty is Only Crystal Deep!, Ash used a Beast Ball to temporarily catch a Pheromosa so that it could be returned home. In Living on the Cutting Edge!, Lana tried to use a Beast Ball to catch a Kartana, but it simply sliced the Ball to pieces. In The Homecoming Crown!, Lillie's family used a Beast Ball to catch a Shiny Nihilego, nicknamed "Lillie", that had taken care of Mohn, with Gladion taking it under his care. Beast Balls were created for Aether Foundation by Blake with help from the Ultra Recon Squad as a means of catching Ultra Beasts. They were first seen in Arrival at the Scientific Megalopolis, where Blake, disguised as Colress, delivered 100 of them to Lusamine in preparation for her plan to catch the ultimate Ultra Beast: Necrozma. In Darkness!! The Mysterious Claws of Necrozma!, Lusamine used a Beast Ball to catch the Naganadel that Phyco had used to ride through Ultra Space. In Madness!! Mother Lusamine!, after riding the Naganadel to Ultra Megalopolis, she started throwing her Beast Balls at Necrozma. While her attention was focused on Necrozma, Sun used one of the Beast Balls that Lusamine had dropped to catch himself a Stakataka. Moon also tried to use a Beast Ball to separate Lusamine from the Nihilego she had fused with, but she missed her target. In Transcend!! Ultra Necrozma!, Anabel was revealed to be in possession of the last known Beast Ball, which she was delivering to Mount Lanakila, where Sun and Zygarde were engaged in a battle with Necrozma. In Finale!! The Battle Against the Other Dimension!, Necrozma was defeated, but its last-ditch attack hit Looker and Anabel's balloon, destroying the Beast Ball. Sun then revealed that the Beast Ball that Moon had tried to use on Nihilego earlier had ended up at Mount Lanakila through an Ultra Wormhole. He offered it to Anabel, but she believed that humanity couldn't be entrusted with Necrozma's power, and instead gave the Beast Ball to the Ultra Recon Squad, with Zossie using it to catch Necrozma. The Beast Ball, released in the Celestial Storm expansion, allows the player to look at their Prize cards. If an Ultra Beast is found, they may reveal it and add it to their hand, replacing the Prize card with Beast Ball. In Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, when an Ultra Beast is caught by a Beast Ball, the light is a mix of red and blue instead of just red like in most Poké Balls. In Pokémon Sun and Moon only, Pheromosa and Kartana both have a catch rate of 255, meaning that Beast Balls can never fail to catch them in these games. In all European language versions of a promotional trailer for Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, Naganadel is shown to be sent out from a Beast Ball. However, there is no legitimate way to obtain a Naganadel in a Beast Ball in these games, as it is exclusively available as a gift Pokémon in a standard Poké Ball and as a gender unknown Pokémon, even if it could be bred, there would be no way to pass down a Beast Ball. The Beast Ball's Japanese name (ウルトラボール) is a transliteration of the English words "Ultra Ball", the name of a different Poké Ball in English.

Title: Big Malasada

The Big Malasada (Japanese: おおきいマラサダ Big Malasada) is a type of medicine introduced in Generation VII. It is a local specialty of the Alola region and cures a Pokémon from all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. In Pokémon: Magikarp Jump, Big Malasadas can appear as food that can be consumed by Magikarp. They are unlocked at Trainer Rank 81 and cost 931,392 to unlock. In Pokémon Sleep, the Big Malasada is a possible cooking recipe, made with Pure Oil, Moomoo Milk, and Honey. Big Malasada was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sun & Moon Series (the Japanese Sun & Moon Era). It was released in the Collection Moon and Sun & Moon Starter Set in Japan, which were combined to form the English Sun & Moon expansion, and features artwork by 5ban Graphics. The Big Malasada card heals 20 damage and removes one Special Condition (the equivalent of status conditions in the core series games) from the player's Active Pokémon. Malasadas have been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Red Nectar

The Red Nectar (Japanese: くれないのミツ Crimson Nectar) is an item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the nectars associated with Oricorio. When used from the Bag on an Oricorio, it changes it to Baile Style. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use.

Title: Yellow Nectar

The Yellow Nectar (Japanese: やまぶきのミツ Golden Yellow Nectar) is an item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the nectars associated with Oricorio. When used from the Bag on an Oricorio, it changes it to Pom-Pom Style. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use. In A Seasoned Search!, Yellow Nectar was one of the ingredients that Mallow needed to prepare a dish at her family's restaurant, so she and Ash set out to find some. To find it, they followed a Baile Style Oricorio to a hidden meadow, where they saw it sip Yellow Nectar from a flower and change into Pom-Pom Style Oricorio. Mallow took some Nectar from a flower as well, obtaining the ingredient she needed. Yellow Nectar was mentioned in Flash and Cosmog's Secret, where Professor Burnet mentioned she has visited Melemele Meadow several times to collect it.

Title: Pink Nectar

The Pink Nectar (Japanese: うすもものミツ Pale Pink Nectar) is an item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the nectars associated with Oricorio. When used from the Bag on an Oricorio, it changes it to Pa'u Style. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use.

Title: Purple Nectar

The Purple Nectar (Japanese: むらさきのミツ Purple Nectar) is an item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the nectars associated with Oricorio. When used from the Bag on an Oricorio, it changes it to Sensu Style. It can only be used outside of battle. It is consumed after use.

Title: Sun Flute

The Sun Flute (Japanese: たいようのふえ Sun Flute) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. In Pokémon Moon and Ultra Moon, this item is in Lusamine's possession. After the player defeats Lusamine, Gladion finds it among Lusamine's belongings and gives it to Lillie. In Pokémon Sun and Ultra Sun, this item is located on Exeggutor Island. The player obtains it as an item in their Bag upon finding it. When the Sun Flute and Moon Flute are played in harmony at the Altar of the Sunne during the storyline of Pokémon Sun and Ultra Sun, it causes Nebby to evolve into Solgaleo. When the Sun Flute and Moon Flute are played in harmony at the Altar of the Moone during the storyline of Pokémon Moon and Ultra Moon, it causes Nebby to evolve into Lunala. The Sun Flute appeared in The Eclipse, where it was shown to be in Lillie's possession. When played alongside Selene's Moon Flute at the Altar of the Moone, it caused Nebby to evolve into Lunala. The Sun Flute first appeared in The Truth and Island Kahuna Hapu, where Lillie revealed that she had taken it with her when she fled Aether Paradise with Nebby. Upon seeing the flute, Gladion said they should go to the Poni Altar. It was later given to Sun, who played it alongside Moon's Moon Flute at the Poni Altar, allowing a Cosmoem to evolve into Solgaleo. The Sun Flute has been featured in various officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Moon Flute

The Moon Flute (Japanese: つきのふえ Moon Flute) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. In Pokémon Sun and Ultra Sun, this item is in Lusamine's possession. After the player defeats Lusamine, Gladion finds it among Lusamine's belongings and gives it to Lillie. In Pokémon Moon and Ultra Moon, this item is located on Exeggutor Island. The player obtains it as an item in their Bag upon finding it. When the Sun Flute and Moon Flute are played in harmony at the Altar of the Sunne during the storyline of Pokémon Sun and Ultra Sun, it causes Nebby to evolve into Solgaleo. When the Sun Flute and Moon Flute are played in harmony at the Altar of the Moone during the storyline of Pokémon Moon and Ultra Moon, it causes Nebby to evolve into Lunala. While not shown, the Moon Flute was revealed to be in Selene's possession in The Eclipse. When played alongside Lillie's Sun Flute at the Altar of the Moone, it caused Nebby to evolve into Lunala. The Moon Flute first appeared in Battle in Vast Poni Canyon, where it was seen in Hapu's possession. It was later taken by Tapu Bulu and given to Moon, who played it alongside Sun's Sun Flute at the Poni Altar, allowing Nebby to evolve into Lunala. The Moon Flute has been featured in various officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Enigmatic Card

The Enigmatic Card (Japanese: あやしいカード Suspicious Card) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It allows the player to enter the International Police's motel room on Route 8. Allows the player to enter Looker and Anabel's motel room on Route 8.

Title: Terrain Extender

The Terrain Extender (Japanese: グランドコート Ground Coat) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It lengthens the duration of moves and Abilities that alter the terrain of the battlefield. If the Pokémon holding this item creates terrain with its moves or Abilities, that terrain lasts eight turns instead of five turns. If a terrain has its duration extended by the Terrain Extender, the turn counter on the user interface for the terrain will indicate that it lasts for 8 turns for the player whose Pokémon used the move, while it will display that it lasts for 5 turns for their opponent. After 5 turns of the terrain have passed, the user interface will display that it lasts for 8 turns for both players.

Title: Protective Pads

The Protective Pads (Japanese: ぼうごパット Protective Pad) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. Protects the holder from effects caused by using moves that make contact with the target. If the holder makes contact with a Pokémon with Perish Body, neither Pokémon will be affected by it. Protective Pads does not prevent the holder with Unseen Fist from doing damage with contact moves if the target is protected from them.

Title: Electric Seed

The Electric Seed (Japanese: エレキシード Electric Seed) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VII. It boosts the holder's Defense in Electric Terrain. If a Pokémon is holding an Electric Seed while the field is Electric Terrain, it consumes the Electric Seed and its Defense is increased by one stage. The Electric Seed is consumed even if the holder is not otherwise affected by the terrain (i.e. it is not grounded or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move). It is not consumed if the holder already has +6 Defense stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Defense stat stages). If the terrain is changed to Electric Terrain by Electric Surge, then immediately changed by another terrain-changing Ability, the Seed is consumed before the other Ability activates; however, if a Pokémon that holds an Electric Seed and has a terrain-changing Ability is switched in during Electric Terrain, its Ability activates before its held Seed can. Magic Room and Embargo fade before terrain does, so if Electric Terrain would dissipate on the same turn as Magic Room or Embargo, the Seed will activate before the terrain dissipates. If multiple Pokémon each hold an Electric Seed when the field becomes Electric Terrain, each Pokémon will consume the Electric Seed before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Electric Seeds). If a held Electric Seed did not activate because its holder's Defense is already at +6 (or -6 in the case of Contrary), it will not activate for its current holder until after the terrain is changed, the holder switches out, or its holder (or its holder's Substitute) loses health. In Generation IX, the Electric Seed returns to the holder after the battle if it was used. Magic Room will fade before terrain does, but the Electric Seed will not activate.

Title: Psychic Seed

The Psychic Seed (Japanese: サイコシード Psycho Seed) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VII. It boosts the holder's Special Defense in Psychic Terrain. If a Pokémon is holding a Psychic Seed while the field is Psychic Terrain, it consumes the Psychic Seed and its Special Defense is increased by one stage. The Psychic Seed is consumed even if the holder is not otherwise affected by the terrain (i.e. it is not grounded or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move). It is not consumed if the holder already has +6 Special Defense stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has −6 Special Defense stat stages). If the terrain is changed to Psychic Terrain by Psychic Surge, then immediately changed by another terrain-changing Ability, the Seed is consumed before the other Ability activates; however, if a Pokémon that holds a Psychic Seed and has a terrain-changing Ability is switched in during Psychic Terrain, its Ability activates before its held Seed can. Magic Room and Embargo fade before terrain does, so if Psychic Terrain would dissipate on the same turn as Magic Room or Embargo, the Seed will activate before the terrain dissipates. If multiple Pokémon each hold a Psychic Seed when the field becomes Psychic Terrain, each Pokémon will consume the Psychic Seed before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Psychic Seeds). If a held Psychic Seed did not activate because its holder's Special Defense is already at +6 (or −6 in the case of Contrary), it will not activate for its current holder until after the terrain is changed, the holder switches out, or its holder (or its holder's Substitute) loses health. In Generation IX, the Psychic Seed returns to the holder after the battle if it was used. Magic Room will fade before terrain does, but the Psychic Seed will not activate.

Title: Misty Seed

The Misty Seed (Japanese: ミストシード Mist Seed) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VII. It boosts the holder's Special Defense in Misty Terrain. If a Pokémon is holding a Misty Seed while the field is Misty Terrain, it consumes the Misty Seed and its Special Defense is increased by one stage. The Misty Seed is consumed even if the holder is not otherwise affected by the terrain (i.e. it is not grounded or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move). It is not consumed if the holder already has +6 Special Defense stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Special Defense stat stages). If the terrain is changed to Misty Terrain by Misty Surge, then immediately changed by another terrain-changing Ability, the Seed is consumed before the other Ability activates; however, if a Pokémon that holds a Misty Seed and has a terrain-changing Ability is switched in during Misty Terrain, its Ability activates before its held Seed can. Magic Room and Embargo fade before terrain does, so if Misty Terrain would dissipate on the same turn as Magic Room or Embargo, the Seed will activate before the terrain dissipates. If multiple Pokémon each hold a Misty Seed when the field becomes Misty Terrain, each Pokémon will consume the Misty Seed before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Misty Seeds). If a held Misty Seed did not activate because its holder's Special Defense is already at +6 (or -6 in the case of Contrary), it will not activate for its current holder until after the terrain is changed, the holder switches out, or its holder (or its holder's Substitute) loses health. In Generation IX, the Misty Seed returns to the holder after the battle if it was used. Magic Room will fade before terrain does, but the Misty Seed will not activate.

Title: Grassy Seed

The Grassy Seed (Japanese: グラスシード Grass Seed) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VII. It boosts the holder's Defense in Grassy Terrain. If a Pokémon is holding an Grassy Seed while the field is Grassy Terrain, it consumes the Grassy Seed and its Defense is increased by one stage. The Grassy Seed is consumed even if the holder is not otherwise affected by the terrain (i.e. it is not grounded or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move). It is not consumed if the holder already has +6 Defense stat stages (unless its Ability is Contrary, in which case it will not activate if the holder has -6 Defense stat stages). If the terrain is changed to Grassy Terrain by Grassy Surge, then immediately changed by another terrain-changing Ability, the Seed is consumed before the other Ability activates; however, if a Pokémon that holds a Grassy Seed and has a terrain-changing Ability is switched in during Grassy Terrain, its Ability activates before its held Seed can. Magic Room and Embargo fade before terrain does, so if Grassy Terrain would dissipate on the same turn as Magic Room or Embargo, the Seed will activate before the terrain dissipates. If multiple Pokémon each hold an Grassy Seed when the field becomes Grassy Terrain, each Pokémon will consume the Grassy Seed before Symbiosis transfers any item (including Grassy Seeds). If a held Grassy Seed did not activate because its holder's Defense is already at +6 (or -6 in the case of Contrary), it will not activate for its current holder until after the terrain is changed, the holder switches out, or its holder (or its holder's Substitute) loses health. In Generation IX, the Grassy Seed returns to the holder after the battle if it was used. Magic Room will fade before terrain does, but the Grassy Seed will not activate.

Title: Fighting Memory

The Fighting Memory (Japanese: ファイトメモリ Fight Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Fighting type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Fighting-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Fighting-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Fighting-type form. A Fighting Memory appeared in Final Rivals!, where Gladion used it to give his Silvally a type advantage over Ash's Melmetal in the Manalo Conference finals, allowing it to defeat the Hex Nut Pokémon with a supereffective Multi-Attack. Fighting Memory appears in the Crimson Invasion expansion. It is a Pokémon Tool card that only has an effect when attached to a Pokémon named Silvally-. While it is attached to such a Pokémon, the Silvally-GX type is changed to the Fighting type.

Title: Flying Memory

The Flying Memory (Japanese: フライングメモリ Flying Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Flying type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Flying-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Flying-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Flying-type form.

Title: Poison Memory

The Poison Memory (Japanese: ポイズンメモリ Poison Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Poison type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Poison-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Poison-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Poison-type form.

Title: Ground Memory

The Ground Memory (Japanese: グラウンドメモリ Ground Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Ground type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Ground-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Ground-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Ground-type form.

Title: Rock Memory

The Rock Memory (Japanese: ロックメモリ Rock Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Rock type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Rock-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Rock-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Rock-type form. A Rock Memory appeared in Battle Royal 151!, where Gladion used it to give his Silvally a type advantage over a Talonflame during the Battle Royal preliminary round of the Manalo Conference. A Rock Memory appeared in Destroy!! Results of the Training!, where Moon chose to insert it into Gladion's Silvally's RKS System in order to more effectively battle against Ryuki's Turtonator.

Title: Bug Memory

The Bug Memory (Japanese: バグメモリ Bug Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Bug type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Bug-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Bug-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Bug-type form.

Title: Ghost Memory

The Ghost Memory (Japanese: ゴーストメモリ Ghost Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Ghost type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Ghost-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Ghost-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Ghost-type form.

Title: Steel Memory

The Steel Memory (Japanese: スチールメモリ Steel Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Steel type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Steel-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Steel-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Steel-type form. In 10,000,000 Reasons to Fight!, Gladion used a Steel Memory on his Silvally to make it a Steel type, allowing it cross the pool of poison a Nihilego had created to keep it and Lusamine away from their pursuers.

Title: Fire Memory

The Fire Memory (Japanese: ファイヤーメモリ Fire Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Fire type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Fire-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Fire-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Fire-type form. In 10,000,000 Reasons to Fight!, Gladion used a Fire Memory on his Silvally to make it a Fire type, allowing it to melt the ice from Lusamine's Absol's Ice Beam that had frozen it in place. In Getting Down to The Ire!, Gladion used the Fire Memory again in order to reduce the damage Silvally took from Kiawe's Turtonator's Inferno Overdrive, allowing him to counterattack and win their battle during the Manalo Conference semifinals. Fire Memory appears in the Ultra Prism expansion. It is a Pokémon Tool card that only has an effect when attached to a Pokémon named Silvally-. While it is attached to such a Pokémon, the Silvally-GX's type is changed to the Fire type.

Title: Water Memory

The Water Memory (Japanese: ウオーターメモリ Water Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Water type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Water-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Water-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Water-type form. Water Memory appears in the Team Up expansion. It is a Pokémon Tool card that only has an effect when attached to a Pokémon named Silvally-. While it is attached to such a Pokémon, the Silvally-GX's type is changed to the Water type.

Title: Grass Memory

The Grass Memory (Japanese: グラスメモリ Grass Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Grass type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Grass-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Grass-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Grass-type form. Grass Memory appears in the Team Up expansion. It is a Pokémon Tool card that only has an effect when attached to a Pokémon named Silvally-. While it is attached to such a Pokémon, the Silvally-GX's type is changed to the Grass type.

Title: Electric Memory

The Electric Memory (Japanese: エレクトロメモリ Electro Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Electric type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes an Electric-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Electric-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Electric-type form. Electric Memory appears in the Ultra Prism expansion. It is a Pokémon Tool card that only has an effect when attached to a Pokémon named Silvally-. While it is attached to such a Pokémon, the Silvally-GX's type is changed to the Lightning type.

Title: Psychic Memory

The Psychic Memory (Japanese: サイキックメモリ Psychic Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Psychic type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Psychic-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Psychic-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Psychic-type form. Psychic Memory appears in the Crimson Invasion expansion. It is a Pokémon Tool card that only has an effect when attached to a Pokémon named Silvally-. While it is attached to such a Pokémon, the Silvally-GX's type is changed to the Psychic type.

Title: Ice Memory

The Ice Memory (Japanese: アイスメモリ Ice Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Ice type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes an Ice-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Ice-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Ice-type form.

Title: Dragon Memory

The Dragon Memory (Japanese: ドラゴンメモリ Dragon Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Dragon type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Dragon-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Dragon-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Dragon-type form. In Generation VII, Silvally must hold a Dragon Memory in order to be taught Draco Meteor.

Title: Dark Memory

The Dark Memory (Japanese: ダークメモリ Dark Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Dark type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Dark-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Dark-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Dark-type form. In Mission: Total Recall!, after Gladion's Silvally broke free of its mask, Gladion used a Dark Memory to transform Silvally into a Dark type, allowing it to easily defeat Faba's Alakazam and Hypno.

Title: Fairy Memory

The Fairy Memory (Japanese: フェアリーメモリ Fairy Memory) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the memories that are associated with Silvally. It corresponds to the Fairy type. If the holder uses Multi-Attack, it becomes a Fairy-type move. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Fairy-type form. Item-manipulating effects (such as Trick and Fling) cannot give Silvally a memory or remove a memory from Silvally. RKS System changes a Silvally holding this item to its Fairy-type form. In Family Determination!, Gladion used a Fairy Memory on his Silvally to make it a Fairy type, allowing it to resist the attacks of a Totem Kommo-o and defeat it with a Fairy-type Multi-Attack.

Title: Pink Petal

The Pink Petal (Japanese: ももいろはなびら Pink Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower.

Title: Orange Petal

The Orange Petal (Japanese: だいだいはなびら Orange Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower.

Title: Blue Petal

The Blue Petal (Japanese: あおのはなびら Blue Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower. According to Lana, the Blue Petal is the same shape as a Wishiwashi's scale.

Title: Red Petal

The Red Petal (Japanese: あかのはなびら Red Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower.

Title: Green Petal

The Green Petal (Japanese: みどりのはなびら Green Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower.

Title: Yellow Petal

The Yellow Petal (Japanese: きいろのはなびら Yellow Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower.

Title: Purple Petal

The Purple Petal (Japanese: むらさきはなびら Purple Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When all seven petals are collected, Mina will combine them and make a Rainbow Flower.

Title: Rainbow Flower

The Rainbow Flower (Japanese: にじいろのはな Rainbow Flower) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the items the player collects during Mina's trial in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Starts the final part of Mina's trial, a battle with Totem Ribombee. The Rainbow Flower was a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game exclusively released in Japan. This card was one of seven possible SM-P Promotional cards available in promotional packs awarded to participants of Pokémon Card Gym tournaments during September, October, and November 2019. This print features the Pokémon Card Gym logo. When it's attached to a Pokémon-, that Pokémon gets +20 HP, and can't be damaged by the opponent's attacks while on the Bench.

Title: Surge Badge

The Surge Badge (Japanese: だいだいバッジ Orange Badge) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VII. It is a novelty item that can be obtained in the Kantonian Gym in Malie City by defeating its leader. It appears to be based on the Vermilion Gym's Thunder Badge and named after its Gym Leader.

Title: Roto Hatch

The Roto Hatch (Japanese: タマゴふかポン Roto Hatch) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When used in the overworld, the number of cycles it takes for all Pokémon Eggs in the party to hatch are halved. This effect stacks with Flame Body or Magma Armor.

Title: Roto Bargain

The Roto Bargain (Japanese: やすうりポン Roto Bargain) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When used in the overworld, prices of products at Poké Marts are reduced by 50%.

Title: Roto Prize Money

The Roto Prize Money (Japanese: おこづかいポン Roto Prize Money) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When used in the overworld, the amount of prize money received after battles is tripled.

Title: Roto Friendship

The Roto Friendship (Japanese: なつきポン Roto Friendship) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Roto Encounter

The Roto Encounter (Japanese: みっけポン Roto Encounter) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Roto Stealth

The Roto Stealth (Japanese: かくれポン Roto Stealth) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Roto Boost

The Roto Boost (Japanese: おうえんポン Roto Boost) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense and Speed of the Pokémon currently in battle by one stage each.

Title: Roto Catch

The Roto Catch (Japanese: つかまえポン Roto Catch) is a Rotom Power introduced in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Autograph

The Autograph (Japanese: マチスのサイン Matisse's Signature) is an item introduced in Generation VII. In the Japanese version of this item description, Lt. Surge wrote "Good luck!" in English as well. This is related to his habit of using English words and phrases in the Japanese dialogue. This "Good luck!" text found in the Japanese version is written using regular English letters, not katakana. An identical autograph to this one can also be found in the player's room in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Silver Razz Berry

The Silver Razz Berry (Japanese: ぎんのズリのみ Silver Zuri Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VII. It is a more effective counterpart to the Razz Berry for catching Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon, it increases its catch rate. The effect wears off if and when the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball.

Title: Golden Razz Berry

The Golden Razz Berry (Japanese: きんのズリのみ Gold Zuri Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VII. It is a variant of the Razz Berry and a more effective counterpart to the Silver Razz Berry for catching Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon, it drastically increases its catch rate. The effect wears off if and when the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball. The Golden Razz Berry was added to Pokémon GO on June 22, 2017. It can be used to make wild Pokémon significantly more likely to be caught, adding a ×2.5 multiplier to the catch rate. The Berry's effect lasts until the Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball. If a Golden Razz Berry is fed to a Gym defender, it will completely fill a Pokémon's motivation, regardless of how many Berries it has already eaten. Golden Razz Berries can be repeatably obtained from Spinning a PokéStop identified as interesting by an Ultra Buddy Golden Razz Berries have also been obtainable from certain Special Research tasks.

Title: Silver Nanab Berry

The Silver Nanab Berry (Japanese: ぎんのナナのみ Silver Nana Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VII. It is a more effective variant of the Nanab Berry for catching Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon, it makes the wild Pokémon less likely to move and the target ring shrink slower. The effect wears off if and when the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball.

Title: Golden Nanab Berry

The Golden Nanab Berry (Japanese: きんのナナのみ Gold Nana Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VII. It is a variant of the Nanab Berry and more effective than the Silver Nanab Berry for catching Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon, it significantly makes the wild Pokémon less likely to move and the target ring shrink slower. The effect wears off if and when the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball.

Title: Silver Pinap Berry

The Silver Pinap Berry (Japanese: ぎんのパイルのみ Silver Pairu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VII. It is a more effective variant of the Pinap Berry for catching Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon, it increases the chance of getting more item rewards for catching Pokémon. The effect wears off if and when the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball. The Silver Pinap Berry adds a ×2.334 multiplier to the Candy reward, more than from a normal Pinap Berry, and adds a ×1.8 multiplier to the catch rate of a wild Pokémon. The Berry's effect lasts until the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball. Feeding a Silver Pinap Berry to a Gym defender increases its motivation by twice as much as Razz and Pinap Berries do. Silver Pinap Berries can be repeatably obtained from Spinning a PokéStop identified as interesting by an Ultra Buddy Silver Pinap Berries have also been obtainable from certain Special Research tasks.

Title: Golden Pinap Berry

The Golden Pinap Berry (Japanese: きんのパイルのみ Gold Pairu Fruit) is a type of Berry introduced in Generation VII. It is a variant of the Pinap Berry and more effective than the Silver Pinap Berry for catching Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a wild Pokémon, it significantly increases the chance of getting more Candies and Berries for catching it. The effect wears off if and when the wild Pokémon breaks out of a thrown Poké Ball.

Title: Stretchy Spring

The Stretchy Spring (Japanese: のびたバネ Stretched Spring) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Stretchy Spring serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Stretchy Spring is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Stretchy Spring is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy".

Title: Chalky Stone

The Chalky Stone (Japanese: チョークいし Chalkstone) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Chalky Stone serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Chalky Stone is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Chalky Stone is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy".

Title: Marble

If you were looking for the character of the day who appeared in Luxray Vision!, see Marble (DP059). If you were looking for the character of the day who appeared in Crisis at Ferroseed Research! with the Japanese name of Professor Marble, see Professor Malveaux. The Marble (Japanese: ビーだま Marble) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Marble serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Marble is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Marble is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy".

Title: Lone Earring

The Lone Earring (Japanese: かたっぽピアス Lone Earring) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Lone Earring serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Lone Earring is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Lone Earring is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy".

Title: Beach Glass

The Beach Glass (Japanese: うみべのガラス Beach Glass) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Beach Glass serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Beach Glass is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Beach Glass is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy".

Title: Gold Leaf

If you were looking for the item in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, see Shiny Leaf. The Gold Leaf (Japanese: きんのはっぱ Gold Leaf) is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. The Gold Leaf serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Silver Leaf

The Silver Leaf (Japanese: ぎんのはっぱ Silver Leaf) is a valuable item introduced in Generation II. The Silver Leaf serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. For Pokémon distributed in Generation I games, the Pokémon must be traded to a Generation II game for the item to appear.

Title: Polished Mud Ball

The Polished Mud Ball (Japanese: ピカピカだんご Shining Mud Ball) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Polished Mud Ball serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Tropical Shell

The Tropical Shell (Japanese: なんごくかいがら Tropical Shell) is a valuable item introduced in Generation VII. The Tropical Shell serves no practical purpose other than to be sold. The Tropcial Shell is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Tropical Shell is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy".

Title: Small Bouquet

The Small Bouquet (Japanese: ちいさなはなたば Small Bouquet) is an item introduced in Generation VII. The Small Bouquet is a Buddy Souvenir and serves no functional purpose. A Small Bouquet is a possible Souvenir the player's Buddy Pokémon can occasionally collect once their Buddy Level has reached "Ultra Buddy". In The Discovery, Elaine's partner Pikachu gathered a Small Bouquet and gave it to her Trainer.

Title: Lure

The Lure (Japanese: むしよせコロン Bug Attractant Cologne) is a type of item introduced in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. The Super Lure and Max Lure are stronger versions of this item. When used from the Bag in the overworld, it increases encounter rates of rarer wild Pokémon, including Shiny Pokémon, for 100 steps. It also causes all wild Pokémon spawned to have a level 1 greater than the highest level normally in the area (for example, if an area's wild Pokémon normally range from level 3 to level 5, all wild Pokémon will be level 6 instead). A Lure briefly appeared in The Discovery in Green's Bag.

Title: Super Lure

The Super Lure (Japanese: シルバーコロン Silver Cologne) is a type of item introduced in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. The Lure and Max Lure are alternate versions of this item. When used from the Bag in the overworld, it increases encounter rates of rarer wild Pokémon, including Shiny Pokémon, for 200 steps. It also causes all wild Pokémon spawned to have a level 1 greater than the highest level normally in the area (for example, if an area's wild Pokémon normally range from level 3 to level 5, all wild Pokémon will be level 6 instead).

Title: Max Lure

The Max Lure (Japanese: ゴールドコロン Gold Cologne) is a type of item introduced in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. The Lure and Super Lure are weaker versions of this item. When used from the Bag in the overworld, it increases encounter rates of rarer wild Pokémon, including Shiny Pokémon, for 250 steps. It also causes all wild Pokémon spawned to have a level 1 greater than the highest level normally in the area (for example, if an area's wild Pokémon normally range from level 3 to level 5, all wild Pokémon will be level 6 instead).

Title: Pewter Crunchies

Pewter Crunchies (Japanese: ニビあられ Nibi Arare) are a type of medicine introduced in Generation VII. They are a local specialty of Pewter City and cure a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions and confusion. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it cures a Pokémon of all non-volatile status conditions (poison, paralysis, sleep, burn, freeze) and confusion. The Pewter Crunchies have been featured in the Ditto and Eevee figures of the Delicious Adventure line by The Pokémon Company International. Pewter Crunchies are the only local specialty item introduced in a different generation than the region they originate from. One of the described side effects of Pewter Crunchies is thirst, as described by Brock and an NPC in the gate between Route 7 and Saffron City. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, a book found at Naranja Academy/Uva Academy reveals that Pewter Crunchies have failed to attain big popularity due to their "forbiddingly tough appearance" and "surprisingly thin flavor."

Title: Health Candy

The Health Candy (Japanese: げんきのアメ Vitality Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's HP by 1 AV, up until it has reached 50 AVs in HP.

Title: Mighty Candy

The Mighty Candy (Japanese: ちからのアメ Power Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Attack by 1 AV, up until it has reached 50 AVs in Attack.

Title: Tough Candy

The Tough Candy (Japanese: まもりのアメ Defense Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Defense by 1 AV, up until it has reached 50 AVs in Defense.

Title: Smart Candy

The Smart Candy (Japanese: ちしきのアメ Knowledge Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Special Attack by 1 AV, up until it has reached 50 AVs in Special Attack.

Title: Courage Candy

The Courage Candy (Japanese: こころのアメ Soul Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Special Defense by 1 AV, up until it has reached 50 AVs in Special Defense.

Title: Quick Candy

The Quick Candy (Japanese: はやさのアメ Speed Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Speed by 1 AV, up until it has reached 50 AVs in Speed.

Title: Health Candy L

The Health Candy L (Japanese: げんきのアメＬ Vitality Candy L) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon Lv. 30 or higher, it increases that Pokémon's HP by 1 AV, up until it has reached 100 AVs in HP.

Title: Mighty Candy L

The Mighty Candy L (Japanese: ちからのアメＬ Power Candy L) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Lv. 30 or higher Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Attack by 1 AV, up until it has reached 100 AVs in Attack.

Title: Tough Candy L

The Tough Candy L (Japanese: まもりのアメＬ Defense Candy L) is a type of Candy in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. When used from the Bag on a Lv. 30 or higher Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Defense by 1 AV, up until it has reached 100 AVs in Defense.

Title: Smart Candy L

The Smart Candy L (Japanese: ちしきのアメＬ Knowledge Candy L) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Lv. 30 or higher Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Special Attack by 1 AV, up until it has reached 100 AVs in Special Attack.

Title: Courage Candy L

The Courage Candy L (Japanese: こころのアメＬ Soul Candy L) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Lv. 30 or higher Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Special Defense by 1 AV, up until it has reached 100 AVs in Special Defense.

Title: Quick Candy L

The Quick Candy L (Japanese: はやさのアメＬ Speed Candy L) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VII. When used from the Bag on a Lv. 30 or higher Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Speed by 1 AV, up until it has reached 100 AVs in Speed.

Title: Endorsement

The Endorsement (Japanese: すいせんじょう Recommendation) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. Allows the player to participate in the Gym Challenge. In Crackle!! Practice Battle, Henry and Casey sought to impress Leon with their battling skills by driving off a wild Obstagoon in the hopes of him endorsing them for the Gym Challenge. True to their hopes, Leon soon contacted Rose regarding the endorsements he was planning to give to the two Trainers he had just met. In Chomp!! Defeat Drednaw, Henry and Casey's endorsement became widespread knowledge amongst the Gym Leaders, who where surprised to hear that Leon had decided to endorse two Trainers at once. In Blazing!! Bede's Feelings, Bede mentioned that he had been endorsed by Chairman Rose. In Swaying!! Murky Memories, Hop revealed that Leon had offered to endorse him as well, but he had turned his offer down, not wanting to make Leon look bad by possibly performing badly after being endorsed by him.

Title: Wishing Star

Not to be confused with Wishing Piece or Wishing Stone. The Wishing Star (Japanese: ねがいぼし Wishing Star) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. It is a source of Dynamax energy, which can be fit into a Dynamax Band in order to allow a Trainer to Dynamax their Pokémon. According to Professor Magnolia, the Wishing Stars are parts of Eternatus, which is said to have some sort of connection to the Dynamax phenomenon. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, two Wishing Stars fall from the sky near the player and Hop after their battle on Route 2. Professor Magnolia then takes them and fits them into Dynamax Bands for the two. Bede is later revealed to be collecting Wishing Stars for Rose, gathering them from Galar Mine and Galar Mine No. 2. He also attempts to destroy the famous mural in Stow-on-Side to get more of them. During the game's climax, Rose reveals that Macro Cosmos has been giving the gathered Wishing Stars to Eternatus in order to solve the energy crisis that is facing Galar in one thousand years. During the post-game, Sonia is revealed to hold the Wishing Stars confiscated from Chairman Rose after his arrest at her laboratory. They're later stolen by Sordward and Shielbert with the help of Sonia's treacherous assistant in order to advance their plans. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, while the Wishing Star is not an obtainable item, it is mentioned by a Gentleman in Floaroma Town if the player speaks to him with Pokémon Sword or Shield save data on their console. He comments that the player has seen a Wishing Star before and gives them a Jirachi. The Wishing Star is given to Professor Magnolia, who fits it into a Dynamax Band, before giving it back to the player. In Sword and Shield: The Darkest Day!, a Wishing Star crashed down in front of Goh and Sonia at Wedgehurst. Sonia later used it to fashion a Dynamax Band for Goh. A Wishing Star appeared in a flashback in Assistant, being examined by Oleana and a group of Scientists at a Macro Cosmos laboratory. Two Wishing Stars appeared in Ooh Shiny!! Legendary Equipment. One year before the arc's events, Casey and Henry saw two Wishing Stars falling into the Slumbering Weald, and entered the forest to find them. With the help of Henry's Farfetch'd, they eventually found them, and, as thanks for the help, Casey gave one of them to Henry. They were later fitted into Dynamax Bands for the two Trainers. In Watch Out!! Strong Rivals, Bede found three Wishing Stars after his Hatenna crushed a boulder that had been blocking the entrance to the Galar Mine. In Stealth!! Infiltrate the Energy Plant, Rose and Oleana were seen taking multiple Wishing Stars to Eternatus at the Energy Plant.

Title: Dynamax Band

The Dynamax Band (Japanese: ダイマックスＢ Daimax Band) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. It was invented by Oleana and allows a Trainer's Pokémon to Dynamax or Gigantamax in Power Spots and perform Max Moves. Allows the player's Pokémon to Dynamax or Gigantamax in Power Spots and perform Max Moves and G-Max Moves, respectively. Each Trainer can only Dynamax or Gigantamax a Pokémon once per battle. On September 4, 2024, in conjunction with the release of Dynamax in Pokémon GO, the Dynamax Band was added to the game as a reward for completing the Special Research campaign, To the Max!. However, unlike the core series games, it is not required to Dynamax a Pokémon; rather, it is merely for cosmetic purposes. Dynamax Bands first appeared in Flash of the Titans!, under the possession of Lance and Leon. Lance used his Dynamax Band to Dynamax his Gyarados during the World Coronation Series finals, while Leon used his own band to Gigantamax his Charizard. Leon can also use his Dynamax Band to Gigantamax his Rillaboom, as shown in Curtain Up! Fight the Fights!, and his Cinderace, as seen in Partners in Time!, while Lance was seen using his Dynamax Band to also Dynamax his Dragonite in Pride of a Champion!. In The Climb to Be the Very Best!, Leon gave Ash a Dynamax Band of his own so that he could Gigantamax his Pikachu during their battle. After the battle, Leon let Ash keep the Dynamax Band. Starting from The Winding Path to Greatness!, Ash also became able to use his Dynamax Band to Gigantamax his Gengar. A Dynamax Band belonging to Raihan first appeared in Toughing It Out!. He uses it to Gigantamax his Duraludon. In Sword and Shield: The Darkest Day!, Sonia fashioned a Wishing Star she and Goh had found into a Dynamax Band, which she gave to Goh. He later used it to Dynamax his Raboot in a battle against one of Oleana's subordinates, who had used his own Dynamax Band to Gigantamax his Garbodor. In Ultra Exciting from the Shocking Start!, Bea was revealed to own a Dynamax Band. She was first seen using it in A Battle of Mega Versus Max!, Gigantamaxing her Machamp during her third World Coronation Series battle against Ash. In The Sweet Taste of Battle!, a Dynamax Band appeared in Opal's possession. She used it to Gigantamax her Alcremie during her battle with Ash. In Battling Turned Up to Eleven!, Marnie was shown to own a Dynamax Band. She used it to Gigantamax her Grimmsnarl during her World Coronation Series match against Ash. In Valor: A Strategic Part of Battling!, Cynthia was shown to own a Dynamax Band. She used it to Dynamax her Togekiss during her Masters Eight Tournament battle against Ash. In The Bittersweet Truth, a Dynamax Band appeared in Kabu's possession. Victor, Leon, and Hop's Dynamax Bands appeared in The Champion. Victor used his Dynamax Band to catch Eternatus. Two Dynamax Bands first appeared in Zap!! A Rising Beam of Light, under the ownership of Henry and Casey, respectively. Henry was first seen using his Dynamax Band to catch a Gurdurr during a Max Raid Battle. In Ooh Shiny!! Legendary Equipment, it was revealed that these two Dynamax Bands had been made from Wishing Stars the two Pokédex holders had found a year earlier in the Slumbering Weald. Like in the games, each Galar Gym Leader, excluding Piers, also owns a Dynamax Band. The same also applies to Hop, Bede, Marnie, Leon, Oleana, and Rose. Dynamax Bands first appeared in MTM03, under the possession of Suguru Tsukino and Kira Hoshio. They were seen again in the following chapter. From MTM07 onward, Kira used his Dynamax Band regularly. In MTM11, Kira was seen to have upgraded to a Dynamax Band + (Japanese: ダイマックスバンド＋(プラス) Daimax Band +). The Dynamax Band has been featured in several officially licensed figures and goods.

Title: Rotom Bike

The Rotom Bike (Japanese: ロトムじてんしゃ Rotom Bike) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Rotom Bike allows the player to travel faster on land and includes a boost that temporarily boosts the speed even further, but requires a recharge period afterwards before it can be used again. By talking to a Watt Trader in the Wild Area, the player can improve the Rotom Bike three times in exchange of Watts (1,000, 3,000, and 5,000), thus allowing for the recharge period to take less time to complete. After being upgraded with Water Mode, it also allows them to ride on water. In The Isle of Armor, the player can also change their bike's appearance to a "Sparkling White" or "Glistening Black" design, both of which come with particle effects resembling Shiny Pokémon and fully upgraded speed. The player can switch between the base Water Mode and the two alternatives at any time. In Gulp!! Gulp Pokémon, Henry was revealed to have obtained a Rotom Bike from a man after dealing with the Team Yell Grunts who had been causing him trouble. In Swaying!! Murky Memories, Casey was revealed to have upgraded Henry's Rotom Bike to make it able to travel on water, allowing him to cross Circhester Bay with it. Rotom Bike was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese V Starter Set Lightning. It later appeared in the Japanese Sword expansion before debuting in English in the Sword & Shield expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows the player to draw cards until they have six in their hand, then their turn ends. The Rotom Bike is implied to be produced by Macro Cosmos Tech through a poster in Motostoke.

Title: Sausages

Sausages (Japanese: あらびきヴルスト Coarse Ground Sausages) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Mixed Mushrooms

Mixed Mushrooms (Japanese: キノコパック Mushroom Pack) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Large Leek

Large Leek (Japanese: ふといながねぎ Large Scallion) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII. Large Leek can be used as an ingredient in cooking, with a base Strength of 185. It can be used to cook the following recipes: Large Leek can be gathered by the player's helper Pokémon. Large Leek has been featured in the artwork on a keychain that was released as part of the Pokémon Yurutto goods collection that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Fancy Apple

Fancy Apple (Japanese: とくせんリンゴ Select Apple) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII. Fancy Apple can be used as an ingredient in cooking, with a base Strength of 90. It can be used to cook the following recipes: Fancy Apple can be gathered by the player's helper Pokémon.

Title: Brittle Bones

Brittle Bones (Japanese: かぼそいホネ Delicate Bones) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Pungent Root

Pungent Root (Japanese: みずべのハーブ Waterside Herb) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII. The Pungent Root resembles the wasabi root, which is grated into a paste and used as a condiment in Japanese cuisine, such as sushi. An ingredient known as Wasabi was introduced in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Fried Food

Fried Food (Japanese: フライもりあわせ Fried Assortment) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Camping Gear

The Camping Gear (Japanese: キャンプセット Camp Set) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Camping Gear allows the player to set up a Pokémon Camp. It cannot be used on water, in buildings, or while challenging a Gym, the Champion Cup tournament, or the Galarian Star Tournament. Camping Gear was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Single Strike Master expansion and the English Battle Styles expansion, with artwork by sadaji. It allows the player to search for a card from their deck and place it in their hand, at the cost of having to end their turn immediately.

Title: Rusted Sword

The Rusted Sword (Japanese: くちたけん Rusted Sword) is a held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is a legendary artifact associated with Zacian. During the climax of Pokémon Sword, the player's Rusted Sword, along with Hop's Rusted Shield, summons Zacian and Zamazenta to help the two Trainers to battle against Eternamax Eternatus at the tower summit. The Rusted Sword temporarily becomes Zacian's held item for the duration of this battle. During the post-game, the player returns the Rusted Sword to Slumbering Weald. It is soon after temporarily stolen by Sordward, before the player defeats him in a battle and retrieves the stolen item. Before the player battles Zacian at the tower summit in order to catch it, they give the Rusted Sword to it as its held item. In Pokémon Shield, the Rusted Sword is instead obtained by Hop. During the post-game, when he returns it to the altar at Slumbering Weald, it is stolen by Sordward. Hop battles Sordward, but is defeated, allowing him to get away with the item. Later, Sordward uses the Rusted Sword to lure Zacian to the tower summit. After the player has battled Zacian, it flees, and Hop retrieves the Rusted Sword from Sordward, before chasing after Zacian. After Hop has caught Zacian at Slumbering Weald, the Rusted Sword becomes its held item in the subsequent battles he participates in. When a Zacian is holding this item in battle, it transforms into its Crowned Sword form. In-battle, it also changes Zacian's Iron Head into Behemoth Blade. In Pokémon UNITE, the Rusted Sword is a held item that has no effect. Zacian is forced to use it; no other Pokémon can have it. Essentially, it is a balancing limitation, only allowing Zacian to have two useful held items instead of three. Players start the game with the Rusted Sword in their Item Box, even before they have access to Zacian. In Sword and Shield: "From Here to Eternatus!", Goh and Sonia found the Rusted Sword at the altar in the Slumbering Weald after requesting the help of Zacian and Zamazenta in dealing with the Darkest Day. Goh collected it and the Rusted Shield and took both items with him. In Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!, the Rusted Sword called forth Zacian to the tower summit, who grabbed the Sword in its mouth, allowing it to transform into its Crowned Sword form. After Goh caught Eternatus, Zacian left its Sword behind. Ash and Goh were later seen returning the Rusted Sword and Shield where they once rested. The Rusted Sword appeared in a flashback in The Champion, under the possession of Victor. When he held it up during his and Hop's battle against Eternatus at the tower summit, it summoned Zacian to their aid and allowed it to transform into its Crowned Sword form. The Rusted Sword first appeared in a flashback in Ooh Shiny!! Legendary Equipment, along with the Rusted Shield. One year earlier, Henry, accompanied by Casey, entered Slumbering Weald in order to see the two legendary artifacts. After confronting illusions of Zacian and Zamazenta at the altar at the end of the forest and convincing them they weren't trying to steal anything, the two Trainers approached the two artifacts on the altar, but were then knocked out by a bright burst of light. When they recovered, the artifacts were gone. In Cracking!! Brilliant Tap-Dancing, it was revealed that the artifacts had been stolen by Sordward and Shielbert. In Cracked!! The Rusted Sword and Shield, they used the artifacts to "prove" themselves as descendants of Galar's ancient heroes. When the two brothers took on Eternatus at the tower summit, they took out the artifacts, but nothing happened, and the items were sent flying to the moat surrounding the Hammerlocke Stadium, from which they were recovered by Casey's Falinks and Stunfisk and taken to her, who gave them to Henry to clean and repair. However, to his horror, Henry soon realized that he could not forge and repair the artifacts. In Oh My!! The Disappearance of Henry, the artifacts, along with Henry, disappeared as Zacian and Zamazenta attacked Eternatus, getting teleported away by an unseen Pokémon. Casey later discovered that the artifacts had wound up in two different places: the Isle of Armor and the Crown Tundra. In Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, Bede mentioned he had detected signs of the Rusted Sword on Spectrier. In Rumble!! The Darkest Day Returns, he detected signs of the artifact at Spectrier's barn at the Crown Shrine, but the artifact wasn't there. Once Calyrex had tamed its steed, it told Spectrier to take it to the artifact. After finding it, Calyrex brought it to Henry at the Crown Shrine, allowing him to purify it of Eternatus's poison. In Shing!! Final Form, Zacian used the sword to transform to its Crowned Sword form. The Rusted Sword was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Shiny Star V expansion before debuting in English in the Shining Fates expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows Zacian V to deal 30 more damage to the opponent's Active Pokémon. The Rusted Sword appears to feature fictional runic characters, likely a combination of both Japanese and Old Norse characters. While the player seemingly obtains the item in Slumbering Weald during the climax of Pokémon Sword, this is not the case, as the game simply tells the player they obtained it without them actually obtaining anything.

Title: Rusted Shield

The Rusted Shield (Japanese: くちたたて Rusted Shield) is a held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is a legendary artifact associated with Zamazenta. During the climax of Pokémon Shield, the player's Rusted Shield, along with Hop's Rusted Sword, summons Zamazenta and Zacian to help the two Trainers to battle against Eternamax Eternatus at the tower summit. The Rusted Shield temporarily becomes Zamazenta's held item for the duration of this battle. During the post-game, the player returns the Rusted Shield to Slumbering Weald. It is soon after temporarily stolen by Shielbert, before the player defeats him in a battle and retrieves the stolen item. Before the player battles Zamazenta at the tower summit in order to catch it, they give the Rusted Shield to it as its held item. In Pokémon Sword, the Rusted Shield is instead obtained by Hop. During the post-game, when he returns it to the altar at Slumbering Weald, it is stolen by Shielbert. Hop battles Shielbert, but is defeated, allowing him to get away with the item. Later, Shielbert uses the Rusted Shield to lure Zamazenta to the tower summit. After the player has battled Zamazenta, it flees, and Hop retrieves the Rusted Shield from Shielbert, before chasing after Zamazenta. After Hop has caught Zamazenta at Slumbering Weald, the Rusted Shield becomes its held item in the subsequent battles he participates in. When a Zamazenta is holding this item in battle, it transforms into its Crowned Shield form. In-battle, it also changes Zamazenta's Iron Head into Behemoth Bash. In Sword and Shield: "From Here to Eternatus!", Goh and Sonia found the Rusted Shield at the altar in the Slumbering Weald after requesting the help of Zacian and Zamazenta in dealing with the Darkest Day. Goh collected it and the Rusted Sword and took both items with him. In Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!, the Rusted Shield called forth Zamazenta to the tower summit, who grabbed the Shield in its mouth, allowing it to transform into its Crowned Shield form. After Goh caught Eternatus, Zamazenta left its Shield behind. Ash and Goh were later seen returning the Rusted Sword and Shield where they once rested. The Rusted Shield appeared in a flashback in The Champion, under the possession of Hop. When he held it up during his and Victor's battle against Eternatus at the tower summit, it summoned Zamazenta to their aid and allowed it to transform into its Crowned Shield form. The Rusted Shield first appeared in a flashback in Ooh Shiny!! Legendary Equipment, along with the Rusted Sword. One year earlier, Henry, accompanied by Casey, entered Slumbering Weald in order to see the two legendary artifacts. After confronting illusions of Zacian and Zamazenta at the altar at the end of the forest and convincing them they weren't trying to steal anything, the two Trainers approached the two artifacts on the altar, but were then knocked out by a bright burst of light. When they recovered, the artifacts were gone. In Cracking!! Brilliant Tap-Dancing, it was revealed that the artifacts had been stolen by Sordward and Shielbert. In Cracked!! The Rusted Sword and Shield, they used the artifacts to "prove" themselves as descendants of Galar's ancient heroes. When the two brothers took on Eternatus at the tower summit, they took out the artifacts, but nothing happened, and the items were sent flying to the moat surrounding the Hammerlocke Stadium, from which they were recovered by Casey's Falinks and Stunfisk and taken to her, who gave them to Henry to clean and repair. However, to his horror, Henry soon realized that he could not forge and repair the artifacts. He refuses to hand over the artifacts, stating that he only joined the Gym Challenge because he wanted to obtain them. In Oh My!! The Disappearance of Henry, the artifacts, along with Henry, disappeared as Zacian and Zamazenta attacked Eternatus, getting teleported away by an unseen Pokémon. Casey later discovered that the artifacts had wound up in two different places: the Isle of Armor and the Crown Tundra. In Crackle!! Retrieve the Sword & Shield, the Rusted Shield was revealed to have been found by Galarian Moltres and hidden at Loop Lagoon. Henry was able to reclaim the artifact from Moltres shortly before it grabbed him and took him to the Crown Tundra, where he later successfully purified it of Eternatus's poison. In Shing!! Final Form, Zamazenta used the shield to transform to its Crowned Shield form. The Rusted Shield was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Shiny Star V expansion before debuting in English in the Shining Fates expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows Zamazenta V to gain 70 HP. While the player seemingly obtains this item in Slumbering Weald during the climax of Pokémon Shield, this is not the case, as the game simply tells the player they obtained it without them actually obtaining anything.

Title: Fossilized Bird

The Fossilized Bird (Japanese: カセキのトリ Fossilized Bird) is a fossil introduced in Generation VIII. It is the counterpart of the Fossilized Fish. If brought to one of the following locations alongside a Fossilized Drake or Fossilized Dino, the Fossilized Bird can be regenerated into a Dracozolt or Arctozolt, respectively. A Fossilized Bird appeared in A Pinch of This, a Pinch of That!, where Ash, Goh, and Chloe helped Cara Liss and Bray Zenn to dig it up in the Wild Area. It was later combined with a Fossilized Dino and restored into an Arctozolt. A Fossilized Bird appeared in Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, where Marnie was shown to discovered one for Cara Liss. Combined with the Fossilized Drake that Marnie had also found, Cara Liss was able to restore it into a Dracozolt. A Fossilized Bird is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game on the Rare Fossil Item card included in the Darkness Ablaze expansion, first released in the Japanese Infinity Zone expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after it is played it is put onto the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It can evolve into any of the Generation VIII Fossil Pokémon: Dracozolt, Arctozolt, Dracovish, or Arctovish. The Pokémon revived from the Fossilized Bird have 10 extra points in their Attack and Special Attack Stats, and 10 fewer points in their Defense and Special Defense stats, compared to their counterparts revived from the Fossilized Fish.

Title: Fossilized Fish

The Fossilized Fish (Japanese: カセキのサカナ Fossilized Fish) is a fossil introduced in Generation VIII. It is the counterpart of the Fossilized Bird. If brought to one of the following locations alongside a Fossilized Drake or Fossilized Dino, the Fossilized Fish can be regenerated into a Dracovish or Arctovish, respectively. In Pokémon the Series, the appearances of Fossilized Drake and Fish are swapped, making them match the Pokémon they are supposed to restore. A Fossilized Fish appeared in A Pinch of This, a Pinch of That!, where Ash, Goh, and Chloe helped Cara Liss and Bray Zenn to dig it up in the Wild Area. It was later combined with a Fossilized Drake and restored into a Dracovish. A Fossilized Fish appeared in Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, where Marnie was shown to discovered one for Cara Liss. Combined with the Fossilized Dino that Marnie had also found, Cara Liss was able to restore it into an Arctovish. A Fossilized Fish is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game on the Rare Fossil Item card included in the Darkness Ablaze expansion, first released in the Japanese Infinity Zone expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after it is played it is put onto the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It can evolve into any of the Generation VIII Fossil Pokémon: Dracozolt, Arctozolt, Dracovish, or Arctovish. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Fossilized Fish and Fossilized Drake appear to have mistakenly swapped sprites. The Fossilized Fish offers the "-vish" head for Dracovish and Arctovish but visually looks like the body provided by the Fossilized Drake. In the animated series, their appearances are the opposite of their game sprites. The Pokémon revived from the Fossilized Fish have 10 extra points in their Defense and Special Defense Stats, and 10 fewer points in their Attack and Special Attack stats, compared to their counterparts revived from the Fossilized Bird.

Title: Fossilized Drake

The Fossilized Drake (Japanese: カセキのリュウ Fossilized Dragon) is a fossil introduced in Generation VIII. It is the counterpart of the Fossilized Dino. If brought to one of the following locations alongside a Fossilized Bird or Fossilized Fish, the Fossilized Drake can be regenerated into a Dracozolt or Dracovish, respectively. In Pokémon the Series, the appearances of Fossilized Fish and Drake are swapped, making them match the Pokémon they are supposed to restore. A Fossilized Drake appeared in A Pinch of This, a Pinch of That!, where Ash, Goh, and Chloe helped Cara Liss and Bray Zenn to dig it up in the Wild Area. It was later combined with a Fossilized Fish and restored into a Dracovish. A Fossilized Drake appeared in Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, where Marnie was shown to discovered one for Cara Liss. Combined with the Fossilized Bird that Marnie had also found, Cara Liss was able to restore it into a Dracozolt. A Fossilized Drake is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game on the Rare Fossil Item card included in the Darkness Ablaze expansion, first released in the Japanese Infinity Zone expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after it is played it is put onto the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It can evolve into any of the Generation VIII Fossil Pokémon: Dracozolt, Arctozolt, Dracovish, or Arctovish. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Fossilized Fish and Fossilized Drake appear to have mistakenly swapped sprites. The Fossilized Drake offers the "Draco-" body for Dracozolt and Dracovish but visually looks like the head provided by the Fossilized Fish. In the animated series, their appearances are the opposite of their game sprites. The Pokémon revived from the Fossilized Drake have 10 fewer points in their Special Attack and Special Defense stats, and 20 extra points in Speed, compared to their counterparts revived from the Fossilized Dino.

Title: Fossilized Dino

The Fossilized Dino (Japanese: カセキのクビナガ Fossilized Plesiosaur) is a fossil introduced in Generation VIII. It is the counterpart of the Fossilized Drake. If brought to one of the following locations alongside a Fossilized Bird or Fossilized Fish, the Fossilized Dino can be regenerated into an Arctozolt or Arctovish, respectively. A Fossilized Dino appeared in A Pinch of This, a Pinch of That!, where Ash, Goh, and Chloe helped Cara Liss and Bray Zenn to dig it up in the Wild Area. It was later combined with a Fossilized Bird and restored into an Arctozolt. A Fossilized Dino appeared in Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, where Marnie was shown to discovered one for Cara Liss. Combined with the Fossilized Fish that Marnie had also found, Cara Liss was able to restore it into an Arctovish. A Fossilized Dino is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game on the Rare Fossil Item card included in the Darkness Ablaze expansion, first released in the Japanese Infinity Zone expansion. It is a Fossil Trainer card, so after it is played it is put onto the Bench as a Colorless-type Basic Pokémon. It can evolve into any of the Generation VIII Fossil Pokémon: Dracozolt, Arctozolt, Dracovish, or Arctovish. Despite the English name being "Dino", plesiosaurs are not actually dinosaurs; they are marine reptiles. The Pokémon revived from the Fossilized Dino have 10 extra points in their Special Attack and Special Defense stats, and 20 fewer points in Speed, compared to their counterparts revived from the Fossilized Drake.

Title: Strawberry Sweet

The Strawberry Sweet (Japanese: いちごアメざいく Strawberry Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Strawberry Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Strawberry Sweet. A Strawberry Sweet first appeared in The Sweet Taste of Battle!, decorating a cupcake that Goh was eating. When his newly caught Milcery showed interest in it, he placed it on her head and then spun around with her to celebrate making a new friend, inadvertently triggering her Evolution into Alcremie in the process. Four Strawberry Sweets appeared in a flashback in The Bittersweet Truth. Murdock's Milcery grabbed one of them and spun around with it, triggering her Evolution into Alcremie.

Title: Love Sweet

The Love Sweet (Japanese: ハートアメざいく Heart Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Love Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Love Sweet.

Title: Berry Sweet

The Berry Sweet (Japanese: ベリーアメざいく Berry Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Berry Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Berry Sweet.

Title: Clover Sweet

The Clover Sweet (Japanese: よつばアメざいく Four-Leaf Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Clover Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Clover Sweet.

Title: Flower Sweet

The Flower Sweet (Japanese: おはなアメざいく Flower Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Flower Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Flower Sweet.

Title: Star Sweet

The Star Sweet (Japanese: スターアメざいく Star Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Star Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Star Sweet.

Title: Ribbon Sweet

The Ribbon Sweet (Japanese: リボンアメざいく Ribbon Amezaiku) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the sweets that can be used to evolve Milcery. Causes Milcery to evolve into Alcremie with a Ribbon Sweet when the player does a spin while Milcery is holding it. This consumes the Ribbon Sweet.

Title: Sweet Apple

The Sweet Apple (Japanese: あまーいりんご Sweet Apple) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. Causes Applin to evolve into Appletun upon use. This consumes the Sweet Apple. Sweet Apples were added to Pokémon GO on April 24, 2025. Sweet Apples are required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon GO. They are consumed upon use. Applin requires 200 Applin Candy and 20 Sweet Apples to evolve into Appletun. Tapping apples that appear near PokéStops can award either Sweet Apples, Tart Apples, or an encounter with a wild Applin. Apples will also have an increased chance of appearing at PokéStops with Mossy Lure Modules. A Sweet Apple is seen in the artwork for the Pokémon School merchandise collection exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Tart Apple

The Tart Apple (Japanese: すっぱいりんご Sour Apple) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. Causes Applin to evolve into Flapple upon use. This consumes the Tart Apple. Tart Apples were added to Pokémon GO on April 24, 2025. Tart Apples are required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon GO. They are consumed upon use. Applin requires 200 Applin Candy and 20 Tart Apples to evolve into Flapple. Tapping apples that appear near PokéStops can award either Tart Apples, Sweet Apples, or an encounter with a wild Applin. Apples will also have an increased chance of appearing at PokéStops with Mossy Lure Modules. The Tart Apple has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise.

Title: Throat Spray

Throat Spray (Japanese: のどスプレー Throat Spray) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. After the Pokémon holding Throat Spray uses a sound-based move, it consumes the item and its Special Attack is raised by one stage. Throat Spray is not used if the move fails, or finishes the battle. Despite Pokémon being stated to be unable to use manmade healing items when held, the appearance of Throat Spray is similar to the appearance of spray-type Potions.

Title: Eject Pack

The Eject Pack (Japanese: だっしゅつパック Break-Out Pack) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VIII. It switches out the holder if any of its stats are lowered. If any of the holder's stats is lowered (including by the use of its own moves such as Overheat), the Eject Pack is consumed and the holder automatically switches out. If the holder is switched in while Sticky Web is set on its side of the field, it will immediately switch out again. Because only one Pokémon can switch out per move, a Pokémon's held Eject Pack will not activate if it is hit by Parting Shot. If multiple Pokémon's held Eject Buttons and Eject Packs would activate at once, only the held item of the fastest among these Pokémon will activate.

Title: Blunder Policy

Blunder Policy (Japanese: からぶりほけん Miss Insurance) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. If one of the holder's moves misses one of its targets because of an accuracy or evasion check, the Blunder Policy is consumed and the holder's Speed is increased by two stages. Blunder Policy does not activate if a one-hit knockout move misses, if Triple Kick, Triple Axel, or Population Bomb ends early by failing one of their subsequent accuracy checks, or if a move misses due to a target being in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. The Blunder Policy only activates if the move misses, not for other reasons it might fail to affect a target (e.g. immunity due to type or Ability, being protected by a protection move, etc.). If Dragon Darts would have missed one of its targets in a Double Battle for accuracy or evasion reasons, but the other target is successfully hit with the move, that target will be hit twice, and the Blunder Policy will still activate even though no message about missing a target ever appears. Main article: Blunder Policy (Brilliant Stars 131) Blunder Policy was introduced as a Pokémon Tool card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese S-P Promotional cards and the English Brilliant Stars expansion, with artwork by Ayaka Yoshida. It allows the player to draw three cards if the player lands on tails when flipping a coin for an attack of the Pokémon it is attached to. A set of 2 memos designed after the Weakness Policy and Blunder Policy has been released on December 12, 2024 and is exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Room Service

Room Service (Japanese: ルームサービス Room Service) is a type of consumable held item introduced in Generation VIII. It lowers the holder's Speed in Trick Room. If the move Trick Room is used while a Pokémon is holding Room Service, the Room Service is consumed, causing the holder's Speed to drop by one stage. Additionally, Room Service will also be consumed if a Pokémon holding it switches in while Trick Room is already in effect, similar to Electric Seed and the other terrain seeds.

Title: Utility Umbrella

The Utility Umbrella (Japanese: ばんのうがさ Utility Umbrella) is a type of held item introduced in Generation VIII. The Pokémon holding the Utility Umbrella is unaffected by effects of rain and harsh sunlight. All effects of sandstorm, hail, and snow work as normal. The holder's Abilities and self-targeting moves behave as if there was no rain or sunlight present (with the exceptions of Protosynthesis and Orichalcum Pulse). For example, if the holder has Chlorophyll or uses Growth or Synthesis in harsh sunlight, it will not have its Speed doubled, boost stats by only 1 stage, and heal only half of its HP, respectively. Water-type and Fire-type moves that target the holder do not have their power increased or decreased in rain or sun. Moves with a different accuracy in rain or sun (such as Thunder) have their normal accuracy when they target the holder. Conversely, these weather effects are applied as normal to the holder's moves. In rain or harsh sunlight, Solar Beam's number of turns to charge and power is unaffected by weather if used by a Pokémon holding the Utility Umbrella. During rain or harsh sunlight, the holder's Weather Ball will be Normal-type and its power will not be doubled (as if no weather was present). During harsh sunlight, Hydro Steam's power is not boosted by 50% if used by a Pokémon holding the Utility Umbrella, but is instead reduced by 50% like other Water-type moves. These effects are only removed if the move's user is holding a Utility Umbrella; they are not affected by a target's held Utility Umbrella. A Pokémon holding the Utility Umbrella can be frozen during harsh sunlight. Overcast Form Cherrim holding the Utility Umbrella cannot change to Sunshine Form. If a Sunshine Form Cherrim gains the Utility Umbrella (through a move such as Trick), it will immediately change to Overcast Form. Likewise, a Cherrim losing the Utility Umbrella in the sun will immediately change to Sunshine Form. A Pokémon holding a Utility Umbrella is still affected by its allies' Flower Gift, however. The Utility Umbrella has no effect outside of battle, so Sliggoo can still evolve even when holding the Utility Umbrella.

Title: Dynamax Candy

The Dynamax Candy (Japanese: ダイマックスアメ Daimax Candy) is a type of Candy introduced in Generation VIII. It increases the Dynamax Level of a Pokémon. When used from the Bag on a Pokémon, a Dynamax Candy increases its Dynamax Level by one. It can be used on a Pokémon until its maximum Dynamax Level of 10 is reached. Each Dynamax Level increases the HP of a Dynamax Pokémon by 5% of its maximum base HP. Dynamax Candy cannot be used on Zacian, Zamazenta, and Eternatus due to their inability to Dynamax. However, it can be used on Shedinja, despite not having any effect since its HP does not increase when it Dynamaxes.

Title: Lonely Mint

The Lonely Mint (Japanese: さみしがりミント Lonely Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Lonely Nature, increasing its Attack stat and decreasing its Defense stat.

Title: Adamant Mint

The Adamant Mint (Japanese: いじっぱりミント Adamant Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Adamant Nature, increasing its Attack stat and decreasing its Special Attack stat.

Title: Naughty Mint

The Naughty Mint (Japanese: やんちゃミント Naughty Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Naughty Nature, increasing its Attack stat and decreasing its Special Defense stat.

Title: Brave Mint

The Brave Mint (Japanese: ゆうかんミント Brave Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Brave Nature, increasing its Attack stat and decreasing its Speed stat.

Title: Bold Mint

The Bold Mint (Japanese: ずぶといミント Bold Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Bold Nature, increasing its Defense stat and decreasing its Attack stat.

Title: Impish Mint

The Impish Mint (Japanese: わんぱくミント Impish Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Impish Nature, increasing its Defense stat and decreasing its Special Attack stat.

Title: Lax Mint

The Lax Mint (Japanese: のうてんきミント Lax Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Lax Nature, increasing its Defense stat and decreasing its Special Defense stat.

Title: Relaxed Mint

The Relaxed Mint (Japanese: のんきミント Relaxed Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Relaxed Nature, increasing its Defense stat and decreasing its Speed stat.

Title: Modest Mint

The Modest Mint (Japanese: ひかえめミント Modest Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Modest Nature, increasing its Special Attack stat and decreasing its Attack stat.

Title: Mild Mint

The Mild Mint (Japanese: おっとりミント Mild Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Mild Nature, increasing its Special Attack stat and decreasing its Defense stat.

Title: Rash Mint

The Rash Mint (Japanese: うっかりやミント Rash Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Rash Nature, increasing its Special Attack stat and decreasing its Special Defense stat.

Title: Quiet Mint

The Quiet Mint (Japanese: れいせいミント Quiet Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Quiet Nature, increasing its Special Attack stat and decreasing its Speed stat.

Title: Calm Mint

The Calm Mint (Japanese: おだやかミント Calm Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Calm Nature, increasing its Special Defense stat and decreasing its Attack stat.

Title: Gentle Mint

The Gentle Mint (Japanese: おとなしいミント Gentle Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Gentle Nature, increasing its Special Defense stat and decreasing its Defense stat.

Title: Careful Mint

The Careful Mint (Japanese: しんちょうミント Careful Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Careful Nature, increasing its Special Defense stat and decreasing its Special Attack stat.

Title: Sassy Mint

The Sassy Mint (Japanese: なまいきミント Sassy Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Sassy Nature, increasing its Special Defense stat and decreasing its Speed stat.

Title: Timid Mint

The Timid Mint (Japanese: おくびょうミント Timid Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Timid Nature, increasing its Speed stat and decreasing its Attack stat.

Title: Hasty Mint

The Hasty Mint (Japanese: せっかちミント Hasty Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Hasty Nature, increasing its Speed stat and decreasing its Defense stat.

Title: Jolly Mint

The Jolly Mint (Japanese: ようきミント Jolly Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Jolly Nature, increasing its Speed stat and decreasing its Special Attack stat.

Title: Naive Mint

The Naive Mint (Japanese: むじゃきミント Naive Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Naive Nature, increasing its Speed stat and decreasing its Special Defense stat.

Title: Serious Mint

The Serious Mint (Japanese: まじめミント Serious Mint) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the types of mints that change the effect of a Pokémon's Nature. If used from the Bag, it changes the effect of a Pokémon's Nature on its stats to that of the Serious Nature, neither increasing nor decreasing any stat.

Title: Wishing Piece

Not to be confused with Wishing Star or Wishing Stone. A Wishing Piece (Japanese: ねがいのかたまり Wishing Clump) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. A Wishing Piece can be thrown into an inactive Pokémon Den (except the giant den in the Watchtower Ruins or Regigigas's den in the Giant's Bed) in the Wild Area, Isle of Armor, or Crown Tundra in order to enable a Max Raid Battle at said den.

Title: Cracked Pot

The Cracked Pot (Japanese: われたポット Cracked Pot) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. Causes Phony Form Sinistea to evolve into Phony Form Polteageist upon use. This consumes the item.

Title: Chipped Pot

The Chipped Pot (Japanese: かけたポット Chipped Pot) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. Causes Antique Form Sinistea to evolve into Antique Form Polteageist upon use. This consumes the item.

Title: Moomoo Cheese

Moomoo Cheese (Japanese: モーモーチーズ Moomoo Cheese) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII. Moomoo Cheese was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Sword & Shield Series (the Japanese Sword & Shield Era). It was first released in the Japanese Legendary Heartbeat subset and the English Vivid Voltage expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows the player to heal 30 damage from up to two Pokémon that have Energy attached. As its name suggests, it may be made from Moomoo Milk.

Title: Spice Mix

Spice Mix (Japanese: スパイスセット Spice Set) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII. The Spice Mix has been featured in the artwork on a keychain that was released as part of the Pokémon Yurutto goods collection that was exclusive to the Pokémon Center.

Title: Packaged Curry

Packaged Curry (Japanese: レトルトカレー Packaged Curry) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Instant Noodles

Instant Noodles (Japanese: レトルトめん Packaged Noodles) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Precooked Burger

Precooked Burger (Japanese: レトルトバーグ Packaged Burger) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Gigantamix

Gigantamix (Japanese: キョダイパウダー Kyodai Powder) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation VIII.

Title: Wishing Chip

The Wishing Chip (Japanese: ねがいのかけら Wishing Fragment) is an item introduced in Generation VIII. It is currently unobtainable. This item's name and description suggest that it could have worked as a downgraded version of the Wishing Piece.

Title: Catching Charm

The Catching Charm (Japanese: ゆれないおまもり Unshakable Charm) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. It increases the chance of a critical catch. The Catching Charm increases the chance of a critical catch occuring when throwing a Poké Ball at a wild Pokémon.

Title: Old Letter

The Old Letter (Japanese: ふるびたてがみ Old Letter) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. Delivering the letter to a man named Frank in Ballonlea earns the player a Choice Scarf. After the letter has been delivered, the player can return to where they received it to find a Reaper Cloth.

Title: Band Autograph

The Band Autograph (Japanese: バンドのサイン Band's Signature) is an unused Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. It is unobtainable.

Title: Rotom Catalog

The Rotom Catalog (Japanese: ロトムのカタログ Rotom Catalog) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Rotom Catalog allows the player to change the form of a Rotom. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Rotom must have been in a form in Rotom's Room at least once to unlock that form in the Rotom Catalog. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Pokémon Legends: Z-A, all forms are already unlocked upon receiving the item.

Title: Max Honey

Max Honey (Japanese: ダイミツ Dai Honey) is a type of item that was introduced in Generation VIII. It is a type of honey produced by Dynamax Vespiquen. When used from the Bag on a fainted Pokémon, it revives the Pokémon and restores all of the Pokémon's HP. It is required as an additional Max Soup ingredient to give or remove Urshifu's Gigantamax Factor. In Rumble!! The Darkest Day Returns, Casey, Marvin, and Hop succeeded in finding Max Honey from Honeycalm Island to help Henry's Urshifu unlock its Gigantamax potential.

Title: Max Mushrooms

Max Mushrooms (Japanese: ダイキノコ Dai Mushroom) are an item that was introduced in Generation VIII. Three clusters of Max Mushrooms can be exchanged for a bowl of Max Soup, allowing a compatible Pokémon to gain a Gigantamax Factor, or revert their status. Feeding Max Soup to Urshifu requires that one comb of Max Honey be added to the exchange. When used from the Bag during battle, it raises the Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed of a Pokémon currently in battle by one stage each. Max Mushrooms were added to Pokémon GO on December 3, 2024. Using one will increase the damage of the Fast Attacks, Charged Attacks, and Max Moves/G-Max Moves of the player's Dynamax/Gigantamax Pokémon during Max Battles. This effect lasts for 30 minutes. In The Winding Path to Greatness!, Allister helped Ash and Goh collect three clusters of Max Mushrooms, which he cooked into a Max Soup that enabled Ash's Gengar to Gigantamax. Max Mushrooms are seen in the illustration of the Venipede card from the Chilling Reign expansion.

Title: Galarica Twig

The Galarica Twig (Japanese: ガラナツのえだ Galanut Branch) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. On the Isle of Armor, eight Galarica Twigs can be given to a woman on a small island in the Workout Sea in exchange for a Galarica Cuff. In the Crown Tundra, fifteen Galarica Twigs can be given to a woman within the Roaring-Sea Caves in exchange for a Galarica Wreath. In the Coastal Biome within Blueberry Academy's Terarium, Galarica Twigs can be given to a student in the Coastal Plaza next to the vending machines near the healing station, with the amounts of Twigs needed to create a Galarica Cuff and Wreath remaining the same at eight and fifteen, respectively.

Title: Galarica Cuff

The Galarica Cuff (Japanese: ガラナツブレス Galanut Bracelet) is a type of Evolution item introduced in Generation VIII. Causes Galarian Slowpoke to evolve into Galarian Slowbro upon use. This consumes the Galarica Cuff.

Title: Style Card

If you were looking for the Key Item from The Teal Mask, see Teal Style Card. If you were looking for the Key Item from The Indigo Disk, see Indigo Style Card. The Style Card (Japanese: おしゃれカード Fashion Card) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Style Card unlocks additional clothing and hair styles for the player to purchase in boutiques and hair salons and across Galar.

Title: Armor Pass

The Armor Pass (Japanese: ヨロイパス Armor Pass) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Armor Pass allows the player to access the Isle of Armor through Wedgehurst Station. In Oh My!! The Disappearance of Henry, after Casey had figured out that the Rusted Sword and Shield had wound up on the Isle of Armor and the Crown Tundra following the battle against Eternatus, Oleana gave her, Marvin, Hop, Marnie, and Bede an Armor Pass and a Crown Pass each so that they could go search for the artifacts.

Title: Armorite Ore

Armorite Ore (Japanese: ヨロイこうせき Armor Ore) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. A Master Dojo Student inside the Master Dojo will teach the player one of the new moves introduced in Version 1.2.0 in exchange for five pieces of Armorite Ore each. The Digging Pa in the Training Lowlands will offer to dig up some Watts for the player in exchange for seven pieces of Armorite Ore per digging session. A female NPC at the Workout Sea will fully reset the EVs of one of the player's Pokémon every time she is given ten pieces of Armorite Ore.

Title: Mark Charm

The Mark Charm (Japanese: あかしのおまもり Mark Charm) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. In Generation VIII, the Mark Charm effectively triples the chance for wild Pokémon to generate a mark while the item is in the player's Bag. In Generation IX, the Mark Charm effectively triples the chance for symbol encounters to generate with a mark while the item is in the player's Bag, excluding wanderers. It does not have any effect on the bonuses applied to Pokémon encountered in Poké Portal News event mass outbreaks.

Title: Galarica Wreath

The Galarica Wreath (Japanese: ガラナツリース Galanut Wreath) is a type of Evolution item introduced in Generation VIII. Causes Galarian Slowpoke to evolve into Galarian Slowking upon use. This consumes the Galarica Wreath.

Title: Legendary Clue 1

The Legendary Clue 1 (Japanese: でんせつのメモ1 Legendary Memo 1) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Legendary Clue 1 tells the player more about Calyrex. It is required to be read in order to find Calyrex and complete "The Sacred Bonds of Sovereign and Steed!" expedition set by Peony. The contents of Legendary Clue 1 change as the player progresses through the story. There's a fairy tale in Freezington about the Legendary Pokémon known as the King of Bountiful Harvests. In the legends, the king is said to wear a massive crown on its head, but the wooden statue near the fields in the middle of the village shows no sign of a crown. Calyrex appeared once I placed the crown on the statue of the King of Bountiful Harvests. Calyrex can apparently speak to humans by taking over a person's body—Peony's, in this case. Now need to gather more information on the King of Bountiful Harvests from the people of the village! Upon learning from Calyrex that its steed's favorite food is carrot: In order to find the king's beloved steed, I'll need to first get my hands on its favorite food—carrots. Maybe the people of Freezington can help me out. Upon hearing that I was able to find Carrot Seeds, Calyrex told me about two fields where I can grow the carrots. I need to pick either the field covered in snow or the field by the graves and plant the seeds! Calyrex was able to grow an Iceroot Carrot from the seeds I planted in the field covered in snow! The scent of the carrot lured Glastrier out, but it ran off toward Freezington. Calyrex was able to grow a Shaderoot Carrot from the seeds I planted in the field by the graves! The scent of the carrot lured Spectrier out, but it ran off toward Freezington. Using the mane hair I got by defeating the Pokémon that was once the king's loyal steed along with the Radiant Petal grown by Calyrex itself, I was able to re-create the Reins of Unity! Now I need to head to the Crown Shrine, where the steed's been living, to meet up with Calyrex! Calyrex, the King of Bountiful Harvests, was able to reconnect with its loyal steed using the new Reins of Unity. Calyrex also seems to have regained its trust in humankind. As thanks for helping it regain its power, Calyrex is allowing me to take it along on my adventure!

Title: Legendary Clue 2

The Legendary Clue 2 (Japanese: でんせつのメモ2 Legendary Memo 2) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Legendary Clue 2 tells the player more about the legendary giants. It is required to be read in order to find each of the giants and complete "The Terrible Titans... Lurking Locked Away!" expedition set by Peony. The contents of Legendary Clue 2 change as the player progresses through the story.

Title: Legendary Clue 3

The Legendary Clue 3 (Japanese: でんせつのメモ3 Legendary Memo 3) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Legendary Clue 3 tells the player more about the legendary birds and their Galarian variants. It is required to be read in order to find each legendary bird and complete "A Legendary Tree of a Legendary Three!" expedition set by Peony. The contents of Legendary Clue 3 change as the player progresses through the story. When the sun reaches its zenith, it shines directly down upon a great tree with leaves that seem to burn. It is there that the legendary wings come to roost. When the sun reaches its zenith, it shines directly down upon a great tree with leaves that seem to burn. It is there that the legendary wings come to roost.The bird of orange dashed off to the Wild Area.The bird of black flew off to the Isle of Armor.The bird of purple set off across the Crown Tundra. After catching each legendary bird, the line for each Pokémon is respectively replaced with: Zapdos was caught in the Wild Area.Moltres was caught on the Isle of Armor.Articuno was caught in the Crown Tundra.

Title: Crown Pass

The Crown Pass (Japanese: カンムリパス Crown Pass) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Crown Pass allows the player to access the Crown Tundra through Wedgehurst Station. In Oh My!! The Disappearance of Henry, after Casey had figured out that the Rusted Sword and Shield had wound up on the Isle of Armor and the Crown Tundra following the battle against Eternatus, Oleana gave her, Marvin, Hop, Marnie, and Bede a Crown Pass and an Armor Pass each so that they could go search for the artifacts.

Title: Wooden Crown

The Wooden Crown (Japanese: きぼりのかんむり Wooden Crown) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Wooden Crown must be placed atop the "King of Bountiful Harvests" statue in Freezington in order to summon Calyrex to the area. The Wooden Crown appeared in a flashback in Munch Munch!! The Mysterious Carrot, where Bede used it to restore the statue in Freezington, causing Calyrex to appear and regain its ability to communicate through humans.

Title: Radiant Petal

The Radiant Petal (Japanese: かがやくはなびら Shining Petal) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Radiant Petal is used along with a tuft of White Mane Hair or Black Mane Hair to create the Reins of Unity. The Radiant Petal appeared in Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, where it was created by Calyrex, at the cost of causing it to pass out for a while. The petal and the Black Mane Hair obtained by Bede were later combined by Henry to create the Reins of Unity.

Title: White Mane Hair

The White Mane Hair (Japanese: しろいたてがみ White Mane) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The White Mane Hair is used along with a Radiant Petal to create the Reins of Unity.

Title: Black Mane Hair

The Black Mane Hair (Japanese: くろいたてがみ Black Mane) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Black Mane Hair is used along with a Radiant Petal to create the Reins of Unity. The Black Mane Hair appeared in Clip-Clop!! The King's Horse, where Bede obtained it during a brief battle with Spectrier while chasing it through the Path to the Peak. It and the Radiant Petal created by Calyrex were later combined by Henry to create the Reins of Unity.

Title: Iceroot Carrot

The Iceroot Carrot (Japanese: つめたいにんじん Icy Carrot) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Iceroot Carrot allows the player to summon Glastrier at the Crown Shrine.

Title: Shaderoot Carrot

The Shaderoot Carrot (Japanese: くろいにんじん Black Carrot) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Shaderoot Carrot allows the player to summon Spectrier at the Crown Shrine. A Shaderoot Carrot first appeared in Munch Munch!! The Mysterious Carrot, where Calyrex grew it from the Carrot Seeds planted by Henry, Bede, and Peonia at the Old Cemetery. The scent of the carrot caused Spectrier to appear, though it was unable to recognize where the scent was coming from and ran past the group. In Rumble!! The Darkest Day Returns, Bede placed the Shaderoot Carrot in a bowl at the Crown Shrine to lure Spectrier there. As soon as Spectrier arrived and spotted the carrot, it ate it, giving Calyrex an opening to use the Reins of Unity on it.

Title: Dynite Ore

Dynite Ore (Japanese: マックスこうせき Max Ore) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. A trader inside the Max Lair will give certain items to the player in exchange for pieces of Dynite Ore. Peonia will sometimes offer to unlock a Dynamax Adventure leading to a special Pokémon the player has not seen yet in exchange for five pieces of Dynite Ore. If the player drops out of three or more Dynamax Adventures in a row, the Scientist running the Max Lair demands the player give her a number of Dynite Ore pieces equal to the amount of Dynamax Adventures they've dropped out of (up to 10) before letting them participate in another one. An old man near the crop plots in Freezington will give the player Carrot Seeds in exchange for eight pieces of Dynite Ore.

Title: Carrot Seeds

The Carrot Seeds (Japanese: にんじんのタネ Carrot Seeds) is a Key Item introduced in Generation VIII. The Carrot Seeds allow the player to acquire the Iceroot Carrot in Snowslide Slope's crop plot or the Shaderoot Carrot in the Old Cemetery's crop plot to summon either Glastrier or Spectrier, respectively. Carrot Seeds appeared in Munch Munch!! The Mysterious Carrot as one of the souvenirs Henry had been forced to buy in Freezington. After he, Peonia, and Bede had planted the seeds at the crop plot at the Old Cemetery, Calyrex was able to grow one of them into a Shaderoot Carrot, whose scent caused Spectrier to appear.

Title: Ability Patch

The Ability Patch (Japanese: とくせいパッチ Ability Patch) is a type of item introduced in Generation VIII. It changes a Pokémon's Ability. If used from the Bag, it changes the Ability slot of a Pokémon from one of its standard Abilities to its Hidden Ability. As a result, if the Pokémon evolves and has a different Hidden Ability than its Evolution, its Evolution will have the Hidden Ability. A Pokémon that has its Hidden Ability due to the Ability Patch can also pass down its Hidden Ability via breeding. The Ability Patch can only be used on a Pokémon that belongs to a species with a Hidden Ability. For example, it can be used to change a Rookidee's Ability from Keen Eye or Unnerve to Big Pecks, but it cannot be used to change a Metapod's Ability (which is always Shed Skin). The Ability Patch cannot be used to change a Pokémon's Ability from its Hidden Ability to one of its standard Abilities. The Ability Patch can now remove a Hidden Ability, setting the Ability to the Pokémon's first Ability slot. Fling fails if the user is holding an Ability Patch.

Title: Adamant Crystal

The Adamant Crystal (Japanese: だいこんごうだま Great Diamond Orb) is an item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It allows Dialga to change between its normal form and Origin Forme. It was a Key Item in Generation VIII. It is one of the orbs associated with the Pokémon of myth. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, when the Adamant Crystal is used from the satchel on Dialga, it switches it between its normal form and Origin Forme. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if a Dialga is holding an Adamant Crystal, it changes to its Origin Forme. Additionally, it boosts Dialga's Dragon- and Steel-type moves by 20%.

Title: Lustrous Globe

The Lustrous Globe (Japanese: だいしらたま Great Pearl Orb) is an item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It allows Palkia to change between its normal form and Origin Forme. It was a Key Item in Generation VIII. It is one of the orbs associated with the Pokémon of myth. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, when the Lustrous Globe is used from the satchel on Palkia, it switches it between its normal form and Origin Forme. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if a Palkia is holding a Lustrous Globe, it changes to its Origin Forme. Additionally, it boosts Palkia's Dragon- and Water-type moves by 20%.

Title: Griseous Core

The Griseous Core (Japanese: だいはっきんだま Great Platinum Orb) is an item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It allows Giratina to change between its Altered and Origin Formes. It was a Key Item in Generation VIII. It is one of the orbs associated with the Pokémon of myth. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, when the Griseous Core is used from the satchel on Giratina, it switches between its Altered and Origin Formes. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if a Giratina is holding a Griseous Core, it changes to its Origin Forme. Additionally, it boosts Giratina's Dragon- and Ghost-type moves by 20%. The Griseous Core's effect was previously granted in Generation IV through VIII if Giratina was holding the Griseous Orb instead. As of Generation IX, the Griseous Orb only boosts the power of Giratina's Dragon- and Ghost-type moves by 20% when held, but no longer changes Giratina to its Origin Forme.

Title: Blank Plate

The Blank Plate (Japanese: まっさらプレート Blank Plate) is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. When used from the satchel on Arceus, the Blank Plate changes it to the Normal type. The Blank Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "Three beings whose power can hold both time and space fixed." The Blank Plate, alongside the other 17 type-based Plates, appeared in The Arceus Chronicles (Part 4), under Arceus's possession.

Title: Strange Ball

The Strange Ball (Japanese: ストレンジボール Strange Ball) is a placeholder Poké Ball introduced in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. It is used to represent the Poké Balls of Pokémon when they were caught in a Poké Ball that does not exist in the current game. Starting in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Pokémon caught in Poké Balls that are unavailable in that game instead display a Strange Ball as their Poké Ball. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Pokémon caught in any Poké Ball other than one of the Hisuian Poké Balls are displayed as being caught in a Strange Ball. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond, Shining Pearl, Scarlet, Violet, and Legends: Z-A, Pokémon caught in any Hisuian Poké Balls are displayed as being caught in a Strange Ball. Pokémon Sword and Shield do not feature Strange Balls; Pokémon caught in Hisuian Poké Balls are displayed in standard Poké Balls instead, with Pokémon HOME storing the original ball server-side. When returned to HOME, these Pokémon will regain their original balls. In Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Strange Ball does not exist as an actual item, only as a graphic displayed for Pokémon with a ball ID value that doesn't match any ball found in the game. The Strange Ball was made an item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus and remains an item in subsequent games. The Strange Ball cannot be legitimately obtained as an item, so it cannot normally be used. If it were to be obtained by hacking, when used from the satchel in a wild encounter, it would attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with the same catch rate as a typical Hisuian Poké Ball (0.75×). Unlike other Poké Balls in Legends: Arceus, the Strange Ball cannot be thrown by the player in the overworld, as it only appears in the satchel menu, but not in the throwable item menu in the lower-right of the screen. It is only usable if selected from the satchel menu during a battle. The Strange Ball cannot be legitimately obtained as an item, so it cannot normally be used. If it were to be obtained by hacking, when used against a wild encounter, it would attempt to catch the wild Pokémon with the same catch rate as a typical Poké Ball (1×). From Generation VI onward, bred Pokémon inherit their Poké Ball from their parents. However, any offspring that would inherit a Strange Ball, Master Ball, or Cherish Ball will instead be contained in a standard Poké Ball. The Strange Ball and Park Ball are the only Poké Balls that cannot be a Pokémon's own Poké Ball, due to Pokémon displayed in Strange Balls retaining their original Poké Ball's index number. The Park Ball, Cherish Ball, and Strange Ball are the only Poké Balls in the core series games that have never been obtainable in any core series game.

Title: Legend Plate

The Legend Plate (Japanese: レジェンドプレート Legend Plate) is a Key Item in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the Plates, which are associated with Arceus. When used on Arceus, the Legend Plate changes it to the Normal type, like the Blank Plate. In battle, when Arceus uses Judgment, the move changes type based on the selected opponent's type, and changes Arceus's type to the same type before completing the attack. While selecting a move, Judgment displays the type that it will become against the selected opponent, if used that turn. This is similar to the move Hidden Power. Judgment will become a type that is super effective against the target, prioritizing any double weaknesses of dual-type targets. If multiple types are equally effective, Judgment will change to a type that best resists the target's primary type, prioritizing immunities, regardless of what the target's secondary type may be. Since Palkia’s primary type is Water, Judgment will always become Dragon. Since Giratina’s primary type is Ghost, Judgment will always become Dark. Although Fairy is immune to their secondary Dragon typing, it does not resist Water or Ghost. If multiple types are still equally valid, Judgment will change to the type that best resists the target's secondary type, if any. If multiple types are still equally valid, then one of them will be selected at random. This calculation is done on each turn, so if there are multiple valid types, Judgment's type may vary between them each turn. The Legend Plate can be read, and has the following engraving: "From all creations, over all creations, does the Original One watch over all." Due to the way the Legend Plate operates, using Judgment will never turn Arceus into a Normal type (as nothing is weak to it, and there is no way for a Pokémon to be typeless in Pokémon Legends: Arceus).

Title: Rotom Phone

The Rotom Phone (Japanese: スマホロトム Smartphone Rotom) is a smartphone that is enhanced after being possessed by a Rotom. It is found in Galar in Pokémon Sword and Shield, as a Key Item in Paldea in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and in Lumiose City, Kalos in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. It is popular amongst people across multiple Pokémon canons, and can host a multitude of functions and applications, including a Pokédex. The Paldean Pokédex application was developed by Jacq. The Rotom Phone functions as the menu interface in Pokémon Sword and Shield. From the Rotom Phone, players can access their party, Bag, Town Map, Pokédex, League Card, options, and save their game. They can also set up Camp in most areas once they obtain Camping Gear from their mum. If the player connects to the internet, they can also access Mystery Gift or Victory Station. The Rotom itself can also power the motor in the Rotom Bike, allowing the player to travel faster, and after an upgrade, over water as well. Unlike the Rotom Pokédex, the Rotom Phone does not speak during the storyline, but does prompt the player where to go next, and alerts them to happenings in the Wild Area, such as weather patterns. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the player can access their Map, Pokédex, and Profile from the Rotom Phone menu. After obtaining the Rotom Phone, it will come out when opening the main menu. Additionally, should the player fall from a great height, the player will hold onto their Rotom Phone to slow their fall before impacting the ground. The player can take photos with their Rotom Phone in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet using the front or back cameras via the camera app. This function can be used to change the player's profile picture or Trainer icon. Filters or touch-ups can be applied to make photos more dynamic. The player can make numerous faces and poses while taking a selfie. Other players invited through the Union Circle can also appear in photos, in which they can make their own preset gestures that can be done at any time in the overworld. Many of these gestures can be unlocked through certain tasks and side quests; some are references to previous characters or games, such as Leon's Charizard pose. Like in Legends: Arceus, photos are saved to the system's memory or SD Card. In The Teal Mask, the player can obtain the Roto-Stick, which can expand the camera's field of vision in selfie mode. The ability to play three different music tracks through the Rotom Phone's radio is also unlocked, allowing the player to take photos with certain NPCs and change their expression depending on the track that is being played. In The Indigo Disk, by donating BP to the Photography Club in the League Club Room, the player can unlock frames and special effects to apply to photos. The camera function is activated by pressing the Down Button. The controls for the various camera functions are as follows: As part of the player's journey, several photographs are taken to commemorate different story events. These photos are only shown once and can be saved by using the console's screenshot function. Special photographs appear after: Winning against a Team Star boss for the first time. Winning against a BB League Elite Four member for the first time. A new Rotom Phone appears in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, once again sporting a similar yet altered design. This Rotom Phone carries three camera lenses. In the game, the player can use the Rotom Phone to "Roto-Glide" across the rooftops of buildings as the player traverses the urban landscape of Lumiose City. Like in the Galar and Paldea-centered games, the Pokédex is an app found on the player's Rotom Phone. Main article: List of clothing in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet → Rotom Phone In Sword and Shield, the player can only have the default Rotom Phone, but in Scarlet and Violet, it can be customized with various cases. In The Teal Mask, changing the Rotom Phone case will also change the background patterns in the Rotom Phone menus. Due to all sync pairs on Pasio receiving a Poryphone, most characters do not use Rotom Phones in Pokémon Masters EX. However, Raihan is shown holding his Rotom Phone in his model and occasionally uses it to take selfies. When he is raised to 6★ EX, the color of his Rotom Phone case changes to gold. He also carries his Rotom Phone in his anniversary outfit, but it does not change color when he is raised to 6★ EX in this outfit. Once the player reaches friendship level 100 with Raihan in the Trainer Lodge, they can purchase a replica of a magenta Rotom Phone in the Lodge Exchange to display in the Trainer Lodge. In random Pokémon Center conversations, Jacq mentions that he developed a Pokédex app for Rotom Phones in Paldea, while Rei mentions Rotom Phones as an example of a Pokémon-related phone from Galar. Ash received a smartphone from Professor Cerise in Ivysaur's Mysterious Tower!. Along with Goh's own smartphone, it was possessed by two of Cerise's Rotom, who turned each into a Rotom Phone. Unlike previous Pokédexes in Pokémon the Series, the Rotom Phones can provide information about locations and landmarks, and vital information such as height. They have also been shown to have a numbered Pokémon list and are the first known animated Pokédexes to register and list caught Pokémon. Like in the games, Ash and Goh's Rotom Phones rarely speak on their own, but in That New Old Gang of Mine!, Ash's Rotom Phone was shown to think itself as superior to the Rotom Pokédex for its multitude of functions. If a Trainer is registered for the World Coronation Series, they can identify and challenge other participating Trainers with their Rotom Phones. In Flash of the Titans!, Team Rocket was revealed to have obtained their own Rotom Phone from Giovanni. Unlike Ash and Goh's Rotom Phones, this smartphone is black, and has a distinctively sassy and oblivious personality, which sometimes affects the Pokédex entries it gives. A blue Rotom Phone with a Pokédex installed appeared in Raid Battle in The Ruins!, under the ownership of Shane Seeker. A yellow Rotom Phone appeared in Destination: Coronation!, under the ownership of Visquez. This episode revealed that the Rotom Phone helps participants in the World Coronation Series meet each other and arrange for official battles. A Rotom Phone appeared in Dreams Are Made of These!, under the ownership of Oliver. A Rotom Phone appeared in Trade, Borrow, and Steal!, under the ownership of Kricketina Kylie. A pink Rotom Phone appeared in Solitary and Menacing!, under the ownership of Bea. Another pink Rotom Phone appeared in Sword and Shield: "From Here to Eternatus!", under the ownership of Sonia. A white Rotom Phone appeared in Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!, under the ownership of Professor Magnolia. In To Train, or Not to Train!, Chloe received a pink Rotom Phone with a Pokédex installed from Professor Cerise. A green Rotom Phone appeared in Beyond Chivalry… Aiming to be a Leek Master!, under the ownership of Rinto. In Advice to Goh!, Gary was revealed to have obtained a Rotom Phone. In Leaping Toward the Dream!, Quillon was revealed to own a dark red Rotom Phone. In Trial on a Golden Scale!, Danika was revealed to own a blue Rotom Phone. In The Sweet Taste of Battle!, Raihan was revealed to own a dark red Rotom Phone. In Showdown at the Gates of Warp!, Alternate World Ash was shown to possess a Rotom Phone. In Battling Turned Up to Eleven!, Allister was revealed to possess a dark green Rotom Phone. In Battling in the Freezing Raid!, Horace was revealed to own a Rotom Phone. In Chasing to the Finish!, Lyla and Sterling were shown to own a Rotom Phone each. In Curtain Up! Fight the Fights!, Iris was revealed to have obtained a Rotom Phone. In The Fiery Road to Mastership!, Volkner was revealed to own a Rotom Phone. In The Pendant That Starts It All (Part One), Liko, Ann, multiple other Indigo Academy students, the Rising Volt Tacklers, and the Explorers were shown to possess Rotom Phones, using the same designs as those seen in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Unlike the ones seen throughout Pokémon Journeys: The Series, these Rotom Phones are able to stretch into their Pad Forme (Japanese: パッドフォルム Pad Forme), allowing them to be used as tablets. In The Treasure After the Storm!, Roy was shown to own a Rotom Phone. In The Future I Choose, Alex was shown to own a Rotom Phone. In Someone We Can't See! Whosawhatsit?, Iono was shown to own a Rotom Phone with a Magnemite Magnet Case. In The Stolen Treasure, Tepen was shown using a Rotom Phone. In Welcome to Naranja Academy!, Penny was shown owning a Rotom Phone with an Eevee Case. In Put Your Heart Into It!, Katy was shown owning a white Rotom Phone. In Sparkle! The Glow of Flame and Art, Brassius was shown using a dark green Rotom Phone. In Dot and Nidothing, Iono was shown to own several other Rotom Phones. In Trending Terastallization! Dance, Dance, Quaxly!, Clavell was shown to have a white Rotom Phone. In Dance, Quaxly! The Blue Medali Step!, Larry was shown using a black Rotom Phone. In A New Song for Fuecoco, Ryme was shown to have a Rotom Phone with a Ghost Case. In The Search for Kleavor!, Perrin was shown to own a Rotom Phone. In The Pillar of Fire, Briar was shown to own a Rotom Phone with a Scarlet Case. In Beyond the Shining Rainbow, Lucca was shown using a Rotom Phone. In Following Traces of Laquium, Ult was shown with a Rotom Phone. In The Prankster, Stunner Fisk was shown using a brown Rotom Phone. In The Knight in the Ruins, Pepper was showing owning a Rotom Phone. In Charcadet's Wish, Cervantis was shown with a Rotom Phone. In HZ115, Cyrano was shown owning a white Rotom Phone. In HZ116, Lacey was shown to own a Rotom Phone with a Fairy Case. In the same episode, Drayton was shown to have a Rotom Phone with a black Blueberry Case. A Rotom Phone appeared in Sky, under the ownership of Raihan. It reappeared in The Gathering of Stars. A Rotom Phone appeared in The Gathering of Stars, under the ownership of Peony. Rotom Phones appeared in Breathe Out, under the ownership of Ohara and Hohma. Ohara's is shown to have a Cream Case, while Hohma is shown to use the Default Case. Two Rotom Phones appeared in PT16, under the ownership of Yūto and another Student. A Rotom Phone appeared in Bonding with Kangaskhan, under the ownership of Karimna. Two Rotom Phones appeared in PT20, under the ownership of Rene and Kamina. A Rotom Phone debuted in Crackle!! Practice Battle, under the ownership of Chairman Rose. Two Rotom Phones appeared in Chomp!! Defeat Drednaw, under the ownership of Henry and Casey, respectively. Professor Magnolia had just installed the Pokédex function into these specific smartphones, making Henry and Casey Pokédex holders. A Rotom Phone appeared in Shocking!! Reunion in the Forest, under the ownership of Melony. A Rotom Phone appeared in Grrr!! Noble Kidnappers, under the ownership of Sonia. A Rotom Phone appeared in Rumble!! The Horrific Darkest Day, under the ownership of Opal. A Rotom Phone belonging to Kabu appeared in Cracked!! The Rusted Sword and Shield. A Rotom Phone was used by Hop in Oh My!! The Disappearance of Henry. A Rotom Phone belonging to Klara appeared in Flutter!! Tickets to a New Land. A Rotom Phone belonging to Violet, named Old Roto, first appeared in Speeding! Paldea's Prince of Speed!!. This Rotom Phone uniquely houses an AI copy of Violet's deceased butler, possesses the ability to speak, and sports a bushy mustache similar to said butler's mustache. A Rotom Phone belonging to Scarlet first appeared in Discover! The Quaking Earth Titan!!. A Rotom Phone with a Flabébé Flower Case belonging to Arven first appeared in Acquisition! New Ability: Dash!!. A Rotom Phone with a Black Case belonging to Nemona first appeared in Acquisition! New Ability: Dash!!. A Rotom Phone with a Dark Case was shown under the ownership of Giacomo in PASV10. In PASV13, Iono was shown with a Magnemite Magnet Case Rotom Phone, while Clavell was shown with a White Case Rotom Phone. In PASV17, Penny was shown to have multiple Rotom Phones, with one having an Eevee Case. In Destination: Coronation!, Ash and Visquez used their Rotom Phones to organize an official World Coronation Series battle. In Solitary and Menacing!, Ash and Bea's Rotom Phones communicated with each other so that Ash and Bea could have a World Coronation Series battle. In Beyond Chivalry… Aiming to Be a Leek Master!, Rinto's Rotom Phone was seen receiving a challenge from Ash to a World Coronation Series battle. This listing is of cards mentioning or featuring Rotom Phone in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. Different camera effects for the Rotom Phone can be obtained by contributing BP at the League Club Room PC in Blueberry Academy. As of the 2.0.0 update, when using the Rotom Phone to take a picture in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the player is able to listen to background music. Hop's Rotom Phone is blue, Sonia's is pink, and Raihan's is magenta, similar to the color of a Shiny Rotom. The Pokédex function in the animated series seems to be similar to the Pokédex function on the Pokémon HOME mobile app version. Both feature Pokédexes that register Pokémon after being caught and are on a phone. The layouts of the Pokédex and Pokémon selection screen in Pokémon Journeys: The Series and HOME look similar. Another similarity is they can both look up moves in the Pokédex in the animated series and HOME. The way Pokémon are registered to the Rotom Phone in the animated series is similar to how Pokémon are registered to the player's Pokédex in Pokémon GO. One of the icons on the Rotom Phone in the animated series resembles the icon for Pokémon GO. In the Pokémon Journeys: The Series episode JN126, it is revealed that the passcode to Goh's Rotom Phone is 5555, which can be read in Japanese as a play on his name, with the number five being read as "go". Nemona's father is on the board of the Rotom Phone company. Unlike in the Journeys series, all the Rotom Phones in Pokémon Horizons: The Series have the same voice actor in the original Japanese version, Daiki Yamashita, as well the English dub, Zeno Robinson. In concept art for Pokémon Sword and Shield, a shape resembling the Macro Cosmos logo can be seen on the back of the phone before being possessed by Rotom; this may imply that, at least in Galar, the Rotom Phone is produced by Macro Cosmos or one of its subsidiaries, such as Macro Cosmos Tech.

Title: Sandwich

If you were looking for the Key Item named "Sandwich", see Sandwich (item). Sandwiches (Japanese: サンドウィッチ Sandwich) are a food item consisting of sliced bread and fillings popular in the Paldea region. A nondescript sandwich is given to the player by their mother at Cabo Poco after the first battle with Nemona. It is used to feed the injured Koraidon/Miraidon they discover at the beach near Poco Path. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, sandwiches can be prepared at a player's picnic by interacting with the table and selecting to make a sandwich. Sandwiches can be cooked by up to four players in a mini-game, similarly to Pokéblocks, Poffins, and curry in previous games. After the host of a picnic chooses to make sandwiches, any other members of the Union Circle can opt to join in by interacting with the table before the host starts the session. Players are given a 10-minute time limit to assemble a sandwich with various options of bread and fillings, which provide Meal Powers when the sandwich is completed, similar to Pass Powers in Generation V, O-Powers in Generation VI, and Roto Powers in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. While condiments are applied to the bread at the start of the session, each ingredient used provides a certain number of toppings in a tray. Care must be taken when stacking ingredients and the top half of the bread to ensure that nothing spills over the edge, as any spilled ingredients will be discarded. A sandwich must contain at least one condiment and at least one ingredient - it cannot consist of only one or the other. Players can choose from a list of premade sandwich recipes in Recipe Mode — with additional recipes obtainable if they talk to people at a sandwich Shop with a specific Herba Mystica in their inventory — or select up to ten ingredients and seasonings in Creative Mode. With the exception of Jambon-Beurres and Legendary sandwiches, each kind of recipe comes in four tiers — Normal, Great, Ultra, and Master — with higher tiers requiring additional ingredients on top of the ones from before. Custom sandwiches (or recipes that have been allowed to have too many ingredients fall off the bread) will be referred to as "A Tasty (Player) Original". Creating a custom sandwich does not require the top portion of the bread and will not affect the Meal Powers. A useful strategy is to purposefully throw it away to avoid disturbing the ingredients. This is acknowledged in The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero DLC, as if this is done during Crispin's Elite Trial, he wonders if it's a Paldean thing. Main article: Ingredient → Pokémon Scarlet and Violet Preparing a sandwich will activate three Meal Powers, which vary depending on the recipe or ingredients used. Meal Powers remain active for 30 minutes from the time the sandwich is made. Only three Meal Powers can be active at a time, so preparing another sandwich while Meal Powers are still active will cancel those Meal Powers and replace them with new ones. The player's currently active Meal Powers, and the remaining duration of their effect, can be checked by pressing the right button on the D-Pad. Meal Powers are divided into three levels depending on the number of points bestowed by their ingredients, and all of them except for Egg Power only provide bonuses for one specific type of Pokémon at a time. In addition to prepping sandwiches on their own to attain Meal Powers, numerous restaurants and food stalls throughout Paldea offer a range of premade foods for players to purchase, each providing a predetermined set of Meal Powers. These foods are consumed on purchase. Each ingredient has three categories of values assigned to it: flavor values, power values, and type values. Power corresponds to specific Meal Powers, listed below. When a sandwich is assembled, the values of all ingredients are summed. The two highest flavor values, the three highest power values, and the three highest type values are used to determine the sandwich's effects. The two highest flavor values will confer a +100 bonus to a specific power value, according to the following table. If any of the top two flavor values are tied, then the following priority is applied to break the tie, from highest to lowest priority: sweet > salty > sour > bitter > hot. The three highest power values (after considering flavor's bonus) will determine the Meal Powers activated by the meal. The only exception is Sparkling Power, which is only activated when at least two Herba Mystica are used. The three highest type values will determine which types the Meal Powers will apply to. However, if at least two Herba Mystica are used, then only the single highest type is considered. If any of the three highest type values are tied, then the following priority is applied to break the tie, from highest to lowest priority: Normal > Fighting > Flying > Poison > Ground > Rock > Bug > Ghost > Steel > Fire > Water > Grass > Electric > Psychic > Ice > Dragon > Dark > Fairy. A sandwich will generate three effects: each effect will have a Meal Power, a level for the intensity of the power, and a type that the power is applied to. Suppose that the three highest Meal Powers are, in descending order, powers A, B, and C. Assume the same for the three highest types, types A, B, and C. If at least two Herba Mystica are used, then Powers A, B, and C will all use type A only. The level of an effect will depend on the effect's power value and type value. Lv. 3 powers can only be attained if at least one Herba Mystica is used. Egg Power has a number of effects on Egg generation as well as item generation in the Picnic basket: No Egg Power: Checks whether to generate an Egg or item occur every 60 seconds, with item checks occurring every time, resulting in 33.66% chance to generate an item, and a 3% chance (1.99% if adjusted to account for item checks) to generate an Egg every 60 seconds. All Levels: Decreases interval between checks from 60 seconds to 10 seconds, and only checks whether it should generate an item every sixth check, resulting in a 5.61% chance to generate an item. Egg generation rates vary per Egg Power level. Level 1: Approximately ×5 Egg generation rateReduces egg cycles by ×1.25 Level 2: Approximately ×7 Egg generation rateReduces egg cycles by ×1.50 Level 3: Approximately ×10 Egg generation rateReduces egg cycles by ×2 Forces a specific type of Pokémon to spawn, if possible. Increases the Experience received for defeating a specific type of Pokémon. Increases the chance for a specific type of Pokémon to drop 1 additional item. This has no effect on the Gimmighoul Coins dropped by Chest forme Gimmighouls Increases the item rewards from Tera Raid Battles. Increases the chance of large size Pokémon to appear in the wild. Increases the chance of small size Pokémon to appear in the wild. Increases the chance for Shiny Pokémon to appear in the wild. Increases the chances of wild Pokémon to generate with a mark. Though sandwiches have appeared numerous times in Pokémon the Series, Paldean sandwiches never made an appearance. Paldean sandwiches first appeared in An Unexpected Picnic!, where the Rising Volt Tacklers made some while having a picnic outside Levincia. In The Knight in the Ruins, Liko, Roy, Dot, and Ult prepared some sandwiches during a picnic they had at South Province (Area Three). In HZ116, Drayton had Roy prepare some sandwiches as a supposed training method, though this was soon revealed to have been just him using Roy to do his Blueberry Quests for him, which he was too lazy to do himself. In HZ118, Liko made some sandwiches with her Hattrem. Seeing Hattrem choose ingredients that Liko liked made Liko realize how selfless and helpful Hattrem had always been, and she thanked her for it, triggering her Evolution into Hatterene. In Discover! The Quaking Earth Titan!!, Violet told Arven that Miraidon had started following him because it loved the taste of the sandwiches made for him by his family's head chef. In Battle! Team Star, the Delinquents!!, Arven made a sandwich for Violet. Before Violet could eat it, however, it was eaten by Miraidon instead, necessitating Arven to make a new one. In Acquisition! New Ability: Dash!!, after Violet, Arven, and Nemona had succeeded in defeating Titan Klawf and finding the Sweet Herba Mystica, Arven made sandwiches with the herb. When Miraidon ate one of the herb-filled sandwiches, it gained the ability to dash. In Challenge! The Avant-Garde Gym Leader!!, when Nemona caught up with Scarlet in Artazon, she gave her a sandwich to eat. In PASV11, Arven made sandwiches with the Bitter Herba Mystica. He fed one to his Mabosstiff, allowing it to recover a bit more, while Miraidon eating some restored its ability to move on water. In PASV13, Arven made some sandwiches for Miraidon and Scarlet by the former's insistence. In PASV15, Scarlet was shown to keep Miraidon moving by hanging Arven's sandwiches in front of its face, since it wouldn't obey her otherwise. In PASV18, Arven made sandwiches using the Salty Herba Mystica. When he fed one to his Mabosstiff, it recovered enough to be able to bark again. Miraidon, meanwhile, ate a sandwich as well, becoming able to jump higher than before as a result. In PASV25, after Violet and Arven had defeated Titans Iron Treads and Great Tusk with the help on Kofu and Saguaro, Arven used the Sour Herba Mystica to make more sandwiches, which Violet insisted on sharing with Kofu and Saguaro, much to Arven's irritation. Consuming one of these sandwiches allowed Miraidon to regain its ability to glide. Main article: Arven's Sandwich (Destined Rivals 161) The Sandwich item was introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game as the Item card Arven's Sandwich, released during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was first released in the Japanese Hot Wind Arena subset and the English Destined Rivals expansion with artwork by AYUMI ODASHIMA. It is a card that benefits the "Arven" Trainer's Pokémon archetype in the TCG; it allows the user to heal 30 damage from their Active Pokémon, but if that Pokémon is an Arven's Pokémon, then the damage healed increases to 100. Pokémon Sandwich Simulator by InfexiousBand - Reddit

Title: Tera Orb

A Tera Orb (Japanese: テラスタルオーブ Terastal Orb) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX. It is a Poké Ball-shaped item that allows a Trainer's Pokémon to Terastallize. 10 years prior to the events of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, while in Area Zero, Professor Sada/Professor Turo began investigating the Terastal phenomenon, and discovered that the energy emitted from shining crystals in Area Zero is what triggers it. The Tera Orbs were then created by the professor from the Terastal crystals located in Area Zero, with support from director Clavell. This allowed people to Terastallize their Pokémon outside of Area Zero. The Tera Orb was then shared to the Paldea League and Naranja Academy/Uva Academy. Allows the player's Pokémon to Terastallize in battle. After being used, it must be recharged at a Pokémon Center or an unvisited Tera Raid crystal to be used again, except after the first portion of a Titan Pokémon battle, between Pokémon League battles, and after each battle inside Area Zero. During Tera Raid Battles, it starts uncharged regardless of its previous state and requires three damaging moves to be used in order to charge it. However, it can still only be used once per battle. Its current state is not altered after the battle. During the battle with Stellar Form Terapagos at the end of The Indigo Disk DLC, it works similarly, but it only requires two damaging moves and can be used up to four times in the battle. After that battle, the orb becomes overcharged with Terapagos's Terastal energy and no longer needs to be recharged between battles. Tera Orbs debuted in Nemona and Brassius and…, where Brassius used one to Terastallize his Sudowoodo into a Grass type during his battle against Roy. In Fly! Wattrel!!, Friede was revealed to own a Tera Orb, which he used to Terastallize his Charizard into a Dark type so it could gain the advantage in a battle against Spinel's Beheeyem and Magneton. In Respective Departures, Hamber was revealed to own a Tera Orb, which he used to Terastallize his Dusknoir to power up its Ghost moves during a training battle with Amethio. After their training had concluded, Hamber gave Amethio a Tera Orb of his own. Amethio was first seen using his Tera Orb in From So Far Away, where he Terastallized his Ceruledge into a pure Ghost type while battling against the Black Rayquaza. In Welcome to Naranja Academy!, Liko, Roy, and Dot received a Tera Orb each from Geeta upon enrolling in Naranja Academy. Every academy student taking part in the Tera Training course receives their own Tera Orb, which they're allowed to keep if they pass the two tests assigned for them by the academy. Liko first used her Tera Orb in Put Your Heart Into It!, Terastallizing her Floragato to power up her Grass moves during a battle with Katy, who also used her Tera Orb to Terastallize her Teddiursa into a Bug type. Roy first used his Tera Orb in Sparkle! The Glow of Flame and Art, Terastallizing his Fuecoco to power up his Fire moves during his rematch with Brassius. Dot first used her Tera Orb in Trending Terastallization! Dance, Dance, Quaxly!, Terastallizing her Quaxly to power up his Water moves during her battle with Iono, who also used her Tera Orb to Terastallize her Bellibolt to power up its Electric moves. Rika was shown using her Tera Orb in Liko vs. Rika! Towards the Battle's End to Terastallize her Clodsire into a pure Ground type, allowing it to defeat Liko's Floragato. Larry used his Tera Orb in Dance, Quaxly! The Blue Medali Step! to Terastallize his Staraptor into a pure Normal type. Ryme used her Tera Orb in A New Song for Fuecoco to Terastallize her Toxtricity into a Ghost type. Grusha used his Tera Orb in Ice Battle! Cold-Eyed Grusha to Terastallize his Altaria into an Ice type. In Infiltrating the System! Naranja Academy in Danger!, Sidian used his Tera Orb for the first time, which he used to Terastallize his Garganacl to increase the power of its Rock-type moves. In the same episode, Dash was shown to own a Tera Orb, but due to her having failed her second Tera Training test, she was later forced to return it to Naranja Academy. In Shine on, Terastallization! Liko vs. Roy!, it was revealed that Coral kept the Tera Orb she received from Tera Training. Coral first used her Tera Orb in The Rising Volt Tacklers vs. The Explorers!, Terastallizing her Scream Tail, Screamypuff, into a pure Fairy type during her battle against Roy. In Over the Top!, Geeta used a Tera Orb to Terastallize her Glimmora into a pure Rock type during her Triple Battle against Liko, Roy, and Dot. In Terastallization vs. Mega Evolution!, Nemona used a Tera Orb to Terastallize her Pawmot into a pure Fighting type during her battle against Roy. In The Knight in the Ruins, Penny used a Tera Orb to Terastallize her Sylveon to increase the power of its Fairy moves during her battle against Dot. In HZ117, Lacey used a Tera Orb to Terastallize her Excadrill into a Fairy type during her battle against Ult. In HZ119, Drayton used a Tera Orb to Terastallize his Archaludon into a pure Dragon type during his rematch against Roy. In HZ127, Ann used a Tera Orb to Terastallize her Samurott into a Ground type during her battle against Liko. A Tera Orb first appeared in Breathe Out, belonging to Nemona. In the next episode, Aliquis was also revealed to own a Tera Orb, and both Trainers recurred to Terastallization during their rematch. Tera Orbs debuted in Speeding! Paldea's Prince of Speed!!, where Nemona used one to Terastallize her Pawmi into an Electric type, while Scarlet used her own Tera Orb to Terastallize her Pikachu into a Flying type. In Challenge! DJ Giacomo!!, Violet received his own Tera Orb from Clive during his raid of the Segin Squad's Base, using it to Terastallize his Nymble so that its powered-up Bug Bite could defeat the Segin Starmobile. Similar to the games, each Paldea League Gym Leader also owns a Tera Orb. Tera Orb is introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It is first released in the Japanese Stellar Tera Type Starter Sets and the English Surging Sparks expansion, with artwork by Ayaka Yoshida. It allows the player to search their deck for a Tera Pokémon, reveal it, and put it into their hand. The crystals found within Tera Orbs bear a striking resemblance to Terapagos in its dormant form.

Title: Scarlet Book

The Scarlet Book (Japanese: スカーレットブック Scarlet Book) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX. It is exclusive to Pokémon Scarlet. Its counterpart in Pokémon Violet is the Violet Book. It is a written account of the Area Zero Expedition's journey into the Great Crater of Paldea and what they found there. According to Professor Raifort, while it was initially very popular, reception towards it eventually soured, with the public claiming the great treasures and bizarre creatures in Area Zero were too fantastical to possibly be real, eventually being seen as nothing more than fiction. A copy of the book can be read in the reception area of Naranja Academy on one of the shelves immediately to the right of the entrance. The first copy of the Scarlet Book is used in the Zero Lab to shut down Professor Sada's time machine. The second copy of the Scarlet Book has no use other than triggering a short conversation with Arven at Naranja Academy. A copy of the Scarlet Book can be found and read at the lobby of Naranja Academy. "A photograph from the survey team's point of ingress to the crater, which is visible in the background. Luck favored us with fine weather, making for a smooth outset. But clouds obscured the crater's distant depths, where the treasure of legend is said to lie. Now, onward and downward." "Within the Great Crater of Paldea lies the mysterious Area Zero—a place home to such landscapes, such plant life, and such Pokémon as we had never seen. It is inhospitable to human life, and as such, I suspect something altogether unknown to humankind sleeps in its depths." "A photograph of a spot where the survey team rested on day two of the expedition. Note the strange symbols inscribed in the ground here—were they left by explorers in the time of the Paldean Empire, or could they be older still? Regardless, they seemed as if they must hold some meaning." "Ledges form a spiral down the inner walls of Area Zero, offering a path of descent. Vegetation and sources of water are here as well. Legends tell that precious stones or wondrous fruits have long slept in Area Zero's depths, protected by some manner of guardian." "Surprisingly, the Pokémon species we observed in the upper strata of Area Zero seemed little different from those seen outside the crater." "Now and then, we heard unfamiliar cries from the lower strata." "As we descended further into Area Zero, we began to catch glimpses of mysterious Pokémon—though we wondered if these huge, ferocious beasts were indeed Pokémon at all. One of our team suffered a brutal blow from such a beast and was mortally wounded, forcing us to retreat for a time." "A member of the survey team captured this photograph by chance. I notice a passing resemblance to the Pokémon known as Donphan, yet differences such as its sheer size and the shape of its back set it apart—as do its great tusks." "Area Zero was home to wondrous herbs that instantly impart vigor when eaten. We dubbed them Herba Mystica and attempted to grow some in areas around Paldea. However, before we could harvest, the herbs were eaten by Pokémon—which in turn grew large and strong. We call these Titan Pokémon." "During our descent into Area Zero, we came across a buried metal plate inscribed with a strange symbol. We attempted to shave off a piece of the plate but failed to leave even a scratch. Even determining the nature of the metal seems beyond modern science. We know not why the inscription was made, let alone how." "Countless days into our descent, we reached at last the very depths of the Great Crater. There we found a cave with formations of gemstone, shining blindingly bright as far as we could see. Perhaps that strange light itself is the guardian said to watch over treasure deep within the crater." "A drawing of a fantastical Pokémon as envisioned by our sketch artist. The size and ferocity of the strange Pokémon that dwell in Area Zero's lower reaches tickled the artist's imagination, prompting this sketch of what other species that inhabit these depths might look like." "During our exploration of Area Zero's depths, I—Heath—strayed from the team and was later found unconscious. When awoken, I could only recall speaking with someone in an unfamiliar place, as if in a dream. I was found holding the page shown here. The handwriting is my own, but I have no memory of writing this." "The author, Heath, pictured with the director of Naranja Academy. The academy's generous funding made the Area Zero Expedition possible, and the data gathered has been shared with the academy in hopes that it will aid in the institution's research work and foster future generations of scholars and scientists." "Heath, author of the Scarlet Book, shown here with his partner Cyclizar. A natural historian as well as a writer, he was chosen for the Area Zero Expedition and penned this account upon returning from the Great Crater of Paldea. Cyclizar aided the expedition as well by bearing the team's luggage and equipment." (The following section, which has been blacked out and made illegible, is taken from the published version of the book.) "While sep▊ated from the resea▊h team in the crater's dep▊s, I found a s▊ange...en▊ty. Whether it was a ▊kémo▊, or even ▊liv▊ at all, I kn▊w no▊. It bore a s▊ll with layers of o▊rlapping he▊gons, and glea▊d brig▊er still than ▊ mstone. Vie▊d as a whole, it res▊led a mys▊ious, ▊illiant d▊sk." (The original manuscript of Heath which is in the possession of his descendant, Briar.) "While separated from the research team in the crater's depths, I found a strange...entity. Whether it was a Pokémon, or even alive at all, I know not. It bore a shell with layers of overlapping hexagons, and gleamed brighter still than gemstone. Viewed as a whole, it resembled a mysterious, brilliant disk." "I have tentatively named this creature Terapagos. I suspect that its very body is made up of the key material that causes Pokémon to shine brightly and crystallize." The Scarlet Book first appeared in Liko vs. Rika! Towards the Battle's End, being read by Chalce in Naranja Academy's lobby. After she had put it back to its shelf, Dot picked it up and started reading it, with Terapagos becoming interested in one image in particular. Dot later borrowed the book and showed it to Liko and Roy as well. In the next episode, Dot showed the book to Friede, Geeta, and Clavell as well, with Geeta identifying the image Terapagos had become interested in as what's said to be Terapagos's third form. Afterwards, Dot returned the book to the library. In Encounters at the Crystal Pool, Briar was revealed to own the original copy of the Scarlet Book, which she showed to Liko, Roy, Dot, and Friede while describing her ancestor Heath's expedition into Area Zero. In The Wonders of the World!, Lucius was revealed to have owned a copy of the Scarlet Book 100 years ago, which gave him the knowledge about Terapagos. In Entei's Fierce Battle Cry!, Briar showed the Rising Volt Tacklers a sketch from the Scarlet Book, depicting a Pokémon that shared some characteristics with Entei, which she used as evidence to support the Entei sightings made within Area Zero. In The Pillar of Fire, during the battle Rising Volt Tacklers and Lucius's "Entei", thanks to its earth-gouging fire pillars, Briar discovered the Pokémon's real name, being listed in the Scarlet Book as Gouging Fire. In Taking the Next Steps, it was revealed that Diana had obtained a copy of the Scarlet Book for herself. With the study she had done on the book, Diana assumed that for Pagogo to be able to release its maximum power and eliminate all of Laquium, it would be necessary for Pagogo to be with a Pokémon of each of the 18 existing types. The Scarlet Book makes a cameo appearance in both the Regular and Full Art ultra rare prints of Explorer's Guidance, from the Temporal Forces expansion. The Explorer character depicted in the card is shown carrying the Scarlet Book while exploring Area Zero. The Scarlet Book has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. It's unknown how Arven was in possession of Professor Sada's Scarlet Book if the player later received it from Sada at the Crystal Pool, who seemingly came from the past.

Title: Violet Book

The Violet Book (Japanese: バイオレットブック Violet Book) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX. It is exclusive to Pokémon Violet. Its counterpart in Pokémon Scarlet is the Scarlet Book. The first copy of the Violet Book is used in the Zero Lab to shut down Professor Turo's time machine. The second copy of the Violet Book has no use other than triggering a short conversation with Arven at Uva Academy. A copy of the Violet Book can be found and read at the lobby of Uva Academy. "A photograph from the survey team's point of ingress to the crater, which is visible in the background. Luck favored us with fine weather, making for a smooth outset. But clouds obscured the crater's distant depths, where the treasure of legend is said to lie. Now, onward and downward." "Within the Great Crater of Paldea lies the mysterious Area Zero—a place home to such landscapes, such plant life, and such Pokémon as we had never seen. It is inhospitable to human life, and as such, I suspect something altogether unknown to humankind sleeps in its depths." "A photograph of a spot where the survey team rested on day two of the expedition. Note the strange symbols inscribed in the ground here—were they left by explorers in the time of the Paldean Empire, or could they be older still? Regardless, they seemed as if they must hold some meaning." "Ledges form a spiral down the inner walls of Area Zero, offering a path of descent. Vegetation and sources of water are here as well. Legends tell that precious stones or wondrous fruits have long slept in Area Zero's depths, protected by some manner of guardian." "Surprisingly, the Pokémon species we observed in the upper strata of Area Zero seemed little different from those seen outside the crater." "Now and then, we heard unfamiliar cries from the lower strata." "As we descended further into Area Zero, we began to catch glimpses of mysterious Pokémon—though we wondered if these compact, cruel beasts were indeed Pokémon at all. One of our team suffered a brutal blow from such a beast and was mortally wounded, forcing us to retreat for a time." "A member of the survey team captured this photograph by chance. I notice a passing resemblance to the Pokémon known as Donphan, yet differences such as its texture and the way it moves suggest it is biologically separate—to say nothing of its treads of iron." "Area Zero was home to wondrous herbs that instantly impart vigor when eaten. We dubbed them Herba Mystica and attempted to grow some in areas around Paldea. However, before we could harvest, the herbs were eaten by Pokémon—which in turn grew large and strong. We call these Titan Pokémon." "During our descent into Area Zero, we came across a buried metal plate inscribed with a strange symbol. We attempted to shave off a piece of the plate but failed to leave even a scratch. Even determining the nature of the metal seems beyond modern science. We know not why the inscription was made, let alone how." "Countless days into our descent, we reached at last the very depths of the Great Crater. There we found a cave with formations of gemstone, shining blindingly bright as far as we could see. Perhaps that strange light itself is the guardian said to watch over treasure deep within the crater." "A drawing of a fantastical Pokémon as envisioned by our sketch artist. The compactness and cruelty of the strange Pokémon that dwell in Area Zero's lower reaches tickled the artist's imagination, prompting this sketch of what other species that inhabit these depths might look like." "During our exploration of Area Zero's depths, I—Heath—strayed from the team and was later found unconscious. When awoken, I could only recall speaking with someone in an unfamiliar place, as if in a dream. I was found holding the page shown here. The handwriting is my own, but I have no memory of writing this." "The author, Heath, pictured with the director of Uva Academy. The academy's generous funding made the Area Zero Expedition possible, and the data gathered has been shared with the academy in hopes that it will aid in the institution's research work and foster future generations of scholars and scientists." "Heath, author of the Violet Book, shown here with his partner Cyclizar. A natural historian as well as a writer, he was chosen for the Area Zero Expedition and penned this account upon returning from the Great Crater of Paldea. Cyclizar aided the expedition as well by bearing the team's luggage and equipment." (The following section, which has been blacked out and made illegible, is taken from the published version of the book.) "While sep▊ated from the resea▊h team in the crater's dep▊s, I found a s▊ange...en▊ty. Whether it was a ▊kémo▊, or even ▊liv▊ at all, I kn▊w no▊. It bore a s▊ll with layers of o▊rlapping he▊gons, and glea▊d brig▊er still than ▊ mstone. Vie▊d as a whole, it res▊led a mys▊ious, ▊illiant d▊sk." (The original manuscript of Heath which is in the possession of his descendant, Briar.) "While separated from the research team in the crater's depths, I found a strange...entity. Whether it was a Pokémon, or even alive at all, I know not. It bore a shell with layers of overlapping hexagons, and gleamed brighter still than gemstone. Viewed as a whole, it resembled a mysterious, brilliant disk." "I have tentatively named this creature Terapagos. I suspect that its very body is made up of the key material that causes Pokémon to shine brightly and crystallize." The Violet Book first appeared in Speeding! Paldea's Prince of Speed!!, under Arven's ownership, who read it until Violet and Old Roto found him. They would go on to use the book to help them in their search for the Herba Mystica, consulting it for information whenever necessary. The Violet Book makes a cameo appearance in both the Regular and Full Art ultra rare prints of Ciphermaniac's Codebreaking, from the Temporal Forces expansion. The Ciphermaniac character depicted in the card is shown carrying the Violet Book while exploring a futuristic laboratory setting. The Violet Book has been featured in several officially licensed merchandise. It's unknown how Arven was in possession of Professor Turo's Violet Book if the player later received it from Turo at the Crystal Pool, who seemingly came from the past.

Title: Tiny Bamboo Shoot

The Tiny Bamboo Shoot (Japanese: ちいさなタケノコ Small Bamboo Shoot) is a valuable item introduced in Generation IX. The Tiny Bamboo Shoot serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Big Bamboo Shoot

The Big Bamboo Shoot (Japanese: おおきなタケノコ Big Bamboo Shoot) is a valuable item introduced in Generation IX. The Big Bamboo Shoot serves no practical purpose other than to be sold.

Title: Malicious Armor

The Malicious Armor (Japanese: ノロイノヨロイ Cursed Armor) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Causes Charcadet to evolve into Ceruledge upon use. This consumes the Malicious Armor. A set of Malicious Armor appeared in PT16 inside an abandoned building. While being attacked by a Gengar, a Shiny Charcadet felt compelled to touch the armor and evolved into Ceruledge as a result.

Title: Normal Tera Shard

A Normal Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースノーマル Tera Piece Normal) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Normal type. 50 Normal Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Normal at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Fire Tera Shard

A Fire Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースほのお Tera Piece Flame) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Fire type. 50 Fire Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Fire at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos, the former of which already has its Tera Type fixed to Fire in its Hearthflame Mask form.

Title: Water Tera Shard

A Water Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースみず Tera Piece Water) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Water type. 50 Water Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Water at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos, the former of which already has its Tera Type fixed to Water in its Wellspring Mask form.

Title: Electric Tera Shard

An Electric Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースでんき Tera Piece Electric) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Electric type. 50 Electric Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Electric at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Grass Tera Shard

A Grass Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースくさ Tera Piece Grass) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Grass type. 50 Grass Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Grass at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos, the former of which already has its Tera Type fixed to Grass in its Teal Mask form.

Title: Ice Tera Shard

An Ice Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースこおり Tera Piece Ice) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Ice type. 50 Ice Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Ice at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Fighting Tera Shard

A Fighting Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースかくとう Tera Piece Fighting) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Fighting type. 50 Fighting Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Fighting at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Poison Tera Shard

A Poison Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースどく Tera Piece Poison) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Poison type. 50 Poison Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Poison at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Ground Tera Shard

A Ground Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースじめん Tera Piece Ground) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Ground type. 50 Ground Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Ground at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Flying Tera Shard

A Flying Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースひこう Tera Piece Flying) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Flying type. 50 Flying Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Flying at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Psychic Tera Shard

A Psychic Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースエスパー Tera Piece Esper) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Psychic type. 50 Psychic Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Psychic at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Bug Tera Shard

A Bug Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースむし Tera Piece Bug) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Bug type. 50 Bug Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Bug at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Rock Tera Shard

A Rock Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースいわ Tera Piece Rock) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Rock type. 50 Rock Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Rock at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos, the former of which already has its Tera Type fixed to Rock in its Cornerstone Mask form.

Title: Ghost Tera Shard

A Ghost Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースゴースト Tera Piece Ghost) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Ghost type. 50 Ghost Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Ghost at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Dragon Tera Shard

The Dragon Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースドラゴン Tera Piece Dragon) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Dragon type. 50 Dragon Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Dragon at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Dark Tera Shard

A Dark Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースあく Tera Piece Evil) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Dark type. 50 Dark Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Dark at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos. Dark Tera Shards were amongst the three types of Tera Shards that were not distributed during the Shiny Treasures of Ruin Tera Shards event, alongside Normal and Stellar Tera Shards, despite being correspondent to the type all four treasures of ruin have in common: Dark.

Title: Steel Tera Shard

A Steel Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースはがね Tera Piece Steel) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Steel type. 50 Steel Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Steel at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Fairy Tera Shard

A Fairy Tera Shard (Japanese: テラピースフェアリー Tera Piece Fairy) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of Tera Shard, which can be used to change the Tera Type of a Pokémon. It corresponds to the Fairy type. 50 Fairy Tera Shards can be used to change a Pokémon's Tera Type to Fairy at the Treasure Eatery in Medali, except for Ogerpon and Terapagos.

Title: Booster Energy

Booster Energy (Japanese: ブーストエナジー Boost Energy) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. If held by a Pokémon with the Ability Protosynthesis when harsh sunlight is not active, or Quark Drive when Electric Terrain is not active, Booster Energy activates the Pokémon's Ability (being consumed in the process). Item-manipulating moves and abilities such as Fling, Trick, or Symbiosis cannot transfer Booster Energy to or from a Paradox Pokémon (except Koraidon and Miraidon). Since Booster Energy is restored after battle when consumed (as are all non-Berry items as of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet), it can be obtained from wild Paradox Pokémon even if it was consumed during battle. In Pokémon Masters EX, Booster Energy can only be used by certain sync pairs who have it as an item move. Booster Energy was introduced as Pokémon Tool cards in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era) as Ancient Booster Energy Capsule and Future Booster Energy Capsule. They were first released in Japanese in the Ancient Roar and Future Flash expansions, respectively, before being released in the English Paradox Rift expansion. Both cards support the Paradox Pokémon they are attached to: Ancient Booster Energy Capsule provides the Ancient Pokémon it is attached to with an additional 60 HP and immunity to all Special Conditions, while a Future Pokémon with a Future Booster Energy Capsule attached has no Retreat Cost and its attacks do 20 more damage to the opponent's Active Pokémon. A Booster Energy accessory is included with the Chogokin Iron Bundle and Iron Moth figures. It acts as a magnet key, activating lights in the figure when placed on it.

Title: Ability Shield

Ability Shield (Japanese: とくせいガード Ability Guard) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. The Ability Shield prevents the holder's Ability from being changed or suppressed by any effect, even if the effect is directly caused by the holder (such as by Role Play or Trace). It also protects the holder from effects that ignore Abilities. For instance, if a Pokémon with Clear Body or Big Pecks is holding an Ability Shield and a Pokémon with Mold Breaker uses Leer, its Defense will not be lowered. If a Pokémon with an Ability Shield transforms into another Pokémon (either by using the move Transform or using the Ability Imposter) it will still copy the opponent's Ability. This copied Ability will then be protected.

Title: Clear Amulet

Clear Amulet (Japanese: クリアチャーム Clear Charm) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Clear Amulet prevents the holder from having its stats lowered by other Pokémon's moves or Abilities. However, this item doesn't protect the user from the effects of Haze or Clear Smog. When held by a holder who has the Ability Magic Bounce, being hit by Parting Shot will still force the holder to switch out.

Title: Mirror Herb

Mirror Herb (Japanese: ものまねハーブ Imitation Herb) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Just after an opponent has a stat increase, the holder consumes the Mirror Herb and gets the same stat increase. If multiple stats of the opponent are increased in a single move, (for instance by using Clangorous Soul while holding a Throat Spray), all of the stat increases are copied. A Pokémon that holds a Mirror Herb and has an empty move slot, and another Pokémon that knows a move the first Pokémon can learn as an Egg Move, after the picnic the first Pokémon will learn that Egg Move, even if there is no matching Egg Group or if both Pokémon are of the same gender. This does not consume the Mirror Herb.

Title: Punching Glove

Punching Glove (Japanese: パンチグローブ Punch Glove) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IX. Punching Glove increases the power of punching moves by 10% and prevents contact with targets done by those moves. This item's effect additionally stacks with Iron Fist.

Title: Covert Cloak

Covert Cloak (Japanese: おんみつマント Covert Mantle) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Pokémon holding a Covert Cloak are unaffected by the additional effects of other Pokémon's damaging moves, including additional effects provided by Poison Touch, Toxic Chain, Stench, King's Rock, and Razor Fang. For example, a Pokémon holding a Covert Cloak cannot be burned by Flamethrower or made to flinch by Fake Out. Covert Cloak has no effect on status moves (such as Thunder Wave or Leech Seed). It also doesn't prevent additional effects that apply to the user, so for example a Pokémon using Flame Charge will still be able to increase its own Speed even if it hits a target that is holding a Covert Cloak. Notably, as all moves that cause freezing and flinching are attacking moves, Covert Cloak grants effective immunity to these status conditions. Covert Cloak prevents a Pokémon's burn being cured by Sparkling Aria if it is the only target of the attack (even in battles such as Double Battles, as long as there are no other targets of Sparkling Aria); however, if the attack has multiple targets, all targets will be cured on burn even if they are holding a Covert Cloak. This behavior is unique to Sparkling Aria—for example, Covert Cloak prevents a Pokémon from being paralyzed by Discharge regardless of the number of targets. Covert Cloak does not prevent the removal of stat changes by Clear Smog. Covert Cloak does not prevent itself from being removed with Knock Off.

Title: Loaded Dice

Loaded Dice (Japanese: いかさまダイス Cheating Dice) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IX. Loaded Dice causes multi-strike moves used by the holder to always hit at least four times, if possible. It causes Triple Kick, Triple Axel, and Population Bomb used by the holder to only perform one accuracy check. It causes the holder's Population Bomb to hit four to ten times (with an even chance of each number of hits).

Title: Baguette

Baguette (Japanese: バゲット Baguette) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It is currently unobtainable.

Title: Mayonnaise

If you were looking for the Pokémon Horizons: The Series character, see Master Mayonnaise. Mayonnaise (Japanese: マヨネーズ Mayonnaise) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. It adds the following modifiers to a sandwich it is used on:

Title: Ketchup

Ketchup (Japanese: ケチャップ Ketchup) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. It adds the following modifiers to a sandwich it is used on:

Title: Mustard

If you were looking for the sandwich ingredient, see Mustard (item). Mustard (Japanese: マスタード Mustard) is a character in The Isle of Armor in Pokémon Sword and Shield. He is a former Champion of the Galar region. He is the only character in the games to have the Trainer class Dojo Master (Japanese: どうじょうぬし Dojo Master). In the past, Mustard used to be a Fighting-type Gym Leader. He became the Galar League Champion soon after a heated battle with Opal about 50 years prior to the events of Sword and Shield, a position which he managed to hold for 18 years, longer than any other League Champion before or since. He only lost the title after his prowess in battle began to wane following the death of his partner Pokémon. After refusing a suggestion by the then chairman of the Galar Pokémon League to have a match rigged in his favor, Mustard retired from the Galar League entirely and traveled around the world, until he bought an unnamed island off the coast of Galar and named it the Isle of Armor, setting up his Master Dojo there to teach people about Pokémon battles. One of his students was Leon, who would go on to become a Champion himself one day as well, despite failing to finish Mustard's training due to his horrible sense of direction preventing him from finding the Towers of Two Fists. Upon arriving at the Master Dojo, Mustard accepts the player as his student and has an easy battle with them. He then puts all of his students through three trials, with the player ending up as the winner and earning a Kubfu as a gift from Mustard. After befriending Kubfu, the player must evolve it at either the Tower of Darkness or the Tower of Waters, depending on their choice, with Mustard acting as the final opponent before Kubfu can evolve into Urshifu. Once the player has successfully found a way to unlock Urshifu's Gigantamax potential, Mustard will challenge the player to one more battle, where he holds nothing back. After this battle, he can be challenged to a rematch once a day if the player talks to him while he plays Pokémon Quest in the Master Dojo. This is a transcript of the back of Mustard's League Cards in Pokémon Sword and Shield. "Mustard is the former Fighting-type Gym Leader and is regarded as one of the strongest Champions in Galar's history—reigning undefeated for 18 years. His intense drive for strength meant he insisted on discipline, both in himself and in others. His character changed drastically, however, after his post-retirement globe-trotting. His sudden purchase of a deserted island added to the surprise of those around him. When asked for his reasoning, he answered with a smile, "There are lots of ways to be strong in this world. I want to see them all!" The name "Isle of Armor" was also his idea." "This photo was taken about 50 years ago, when Mustard defeated the Fairy-type Gym Leader and went on to become Champion. He reigned undefeated until he lost his partner Pokémon. After this, his losses started to mount. He remained popular even after losing the mantle of Champion, but decided to retire after the league chairman at that time asked him to win in a rigged match. Mustard developed an obsession with video games after his retirement. Apparently he held off while he was still active in order to maintain his image to his fans." Mustard will Gigantamax his Urshifu at the first opportunity. After completing the Galarian Star Tournament, his Pokémon's levels will increase. Mustard uses these three Pokémon as both a partner and potential opponent in the Galarian Star Tournament. Mustard gives this Kubfu to the player once they have cleared his three trials. Mustard also owns three fast Galarian Slowpoke that are used in the first trial of the Master Dojo. All three Slowpoke have 31 IVs in HP and Speed, with 252 EVs in HP and Speed and 6 EVs in Special Defense. They also start the battle with a +6 stage boost in Speed. While these Slowpoke are treated as wild Pokémon encounters, none of the three can be caught. Mustard appeared in The Gathering of Stars, where he was seen in the Master Dojo at the Isle of Armor. He was visited by his student Leon, who gave him an invitation letter for the Galarian Star Tournament after having a quick battle with him. He was later seen at Wyndon Stadium, walking out onto the field for the tournament's opening ceremony. This listing is of Mustard's known Pokémon in Pokémon: Twilight Wings. Mustard debuted in Flutter!! Tickets to a New Land. While training, Klara and Avery found an unconscious Henry Sword suffering from the effects of Eternatus's poison. Henry was taken to the Master Dojo to recover and was given permission to stay as long as he wanted. Klara went off to greet a pair of new arrivals at the Armor Station, but returned with Casey and Marvin, who quickly clarified that they were just looking for Henry. While the three stayed on the island, Mustard lent Henry his Kubfu, hoping that traveling around would help Kubfu see the world and overcome its shyness. In Bom Bom!! Kubfu and Intense Training, while searching for the Rusted Sword and Shield, Henry, Casey, and Marvin arrived at the Tower of Darkness. A Master Dojo Student guarding the entrance barred the three from investigating the building unless Henry and Kubfu defeated her in a one-on-one battle first. Although he believed they weren't ready yet, Mustard allowed Henry and Kubfu to battle the student, but despite its best efforts, Kubfu was unable to win. Later that night, Kubfu went to search the tower by itself, only to be taken out by an unseen Pokémon. In Rrmbll!! Serious Tower Battle, after several days of training, Kubfu decided to instead train at the Tower of Waters. Henry and Kubfu battled through multiple floors until they reached the top, where Mustard and his Single Strike Style Urshifu were waiting. Urshifu proved to be a powerful opponent, but by targeting its feet, Kubfu forced Urshifu to stumble, leaving wide open to be defeated by a powerful Close Combat. Mustard allowed Kubfu to examine the Scroll of Waters, causing it to evolve into a Rapid Strike Style Urshifu. With their training complete, Mustard suggested Henry permanently keep Urshifu on his team, which he accepted. The following is a list of cards mentioning or featuring Mustard or his Pokémon in the Pokémon Trading Card Game. Mustard is the first NPC Champion to use a Legendary Pokémon in the core series games. Mustard is one of two characters to have a single digit uniform number, the other being Leon. Mustard is the only Champion who was a type specialist to not be a type specialist as a Champion. Despite not being a type specialist anymore, all the Pokémon that Mustard uses in the Galarian Star Tournament are of the Fighting type, possibly as a reference to his old specialty type.

Title: Butter

Butter (Japanese: バター Butter) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Peanut Butter

Peanut Butter (Japanese: ピーナッツバター Peanut Butter) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Chili Sauce

Chili Sauce (Japanese: チリソース Chili Sauce) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Salt

If you were looking for the Pokémon the Series: XY character whose Japanese name is Salt, see Santo. If you were looking for the Pokémon Horizons: The Series character, see Salt (Horizons). Salt (Japanese: ソルト Salt) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Pepper

If you were looking for the character from Pokémon Scarlet and Violet whose Japanese name is Pepper, see Arven. If you were looking for the character from Pokémon Horizons: The Series whose English name is Pepper, see Pepper (HZ102). Pepper (Japanese: ペッパー Pepper) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Yogurt

Yogurt (Japanese: ヨーグルト Yogurt) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Whipped Cream

Whipped Cream (Japanese: ホイップクリーム Whipped Cream) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Cream Cheese

Cream Cheese (Japanese: クリームチーズ Cream Cheese) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Jam

If you were looking for the Hoenn contest feature, see Jamming. Jam (Japanese: ベリージャム Berry Jam) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Marmalade

Marmalade (Japanese: マーマレード Marmalade) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Olive Oil

If you were looking for the Gimmick in Pokémon Café ReMix, see Olive oil (Café ReMix). Olive Oil (Japanese: オリーブオイル Olive Oil) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Vinegar

Vinegar (Japanese: ビネガー Vinegar) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Sweet Herba Mystica

Sweet Herba Mystica (Japanese: ひでん：あまスパイス Secret: Sweet Spice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It is one of the five Herba Mystica. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. In Fly! Wattrel!!, Murdock bought different kinds of Herba Mystica in Levincia. In Acquisition! New Ability: Dash!!, Sweet Herba Mystica was the first Herba Mystica discovered by Violet and Arven after being led to it by Titan Klawf. After Klawf had been driven off, Arven made sandwiches with the Herba Mystica for himself, Violet, and Nemona. When Miraidon consumed one of the sandwiches, it gained the ability to dash faster.

Title: Salty Herba Mystica

Salty Herba Mystica (Japanese: ひでん：しおスパイス Secret: Salt Spice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It is one of the five Herba Mystica. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. In Fly! Wattrel!!, Murdock bought different kinds of Herba Mystica in Levincia. In PASV18, Salty Herba Mystica was the third Herba Mystica discovered by Violet and Arven after being led to it by Titan Orthworm. After Orthworm had been driven off, Arven made sandwiches with the Herba Mystica for himself, Violet, Scarlet, and Nemona. When Miraidon consumed one of the sandwiches, it gained the ability to jump higher. The Salty Herba Mystica is the only Herba Mystica to not share the same naming convention as the flavors used in Contests, where it would be referred to as "Dry"; rather, the flavors are the ones associated with the Chinese Five Phases.

Title: Sour Herba Mystica

Sour Herba Mystica (Japanese: ひでん：すぱスパイス Secret: Sour Spice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It is one of the five Herba Mystica. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. In Fly! Wattrel!!, Murdock bought different kinds of Herba Mystica in Levincia. In PASV25, Sour Herba Mystica was the fourth Herba Mystica discovered by Violet and Arven after being led to it by Titan Iron Treads and Great Tusk.

Title: Bitter Herba Mystica

Bitter Herba Mystica (Japanese: ひでん：にがスパイス Secret: Bitter Spice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It is one of the five Herba Mystica. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. In Fly! Wattrel!!, Murdock bought different kinds of Herba Mystica in Levincia. In PASV11, Violet and Arven discovered the Bitter Herba Mystica after defeating Titan Bombirdier. Arven made some sandwiches out of it, sharing them amongst himself, his Mabosstiff, Violet, and Mireia, a Musician who had helped them against Bombirdier. The power of the Bitter Herba Mystica allowed Mabosstiff to recover a little more, much to Arven's relief. When Miraidon ate one of the sandwiches, it gained a power-up, with Professor Turo contacting Violet to specify that Miraidon had regained its ability to swim.

Title: Spicy Herba Mystica

Spicy Herba Mystica (Japanese: ひでん：からスパイス Secret: Spicy Spice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It is one of the five Herba Mystica. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. In Fly! Wattrel!!, Liko received a supposed advertisement for Spicy Herba Mystica being sold in Levincia and left to get some for Murdock, but it turned out to be a lie created by Spinel to lure her into a trap.

Title: Lettuce

Lettuce (Japanese: レタス Lettuce) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Tomato

Tomato (Japanese: トマトスライス Tomato Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Cherry Tomatoes

Cherry Tomatoes (Japanese: カットミニトマト Cut Mini Tomato) are a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Cucumber

Cucumber (Japanese: キュウリスライス Cucumber Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Pickle

Pickle (Japanese: ピクルススライス Pickles Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Onion

This article is about the ingredient. For the Gym Leader whose Japanese name is Onion, see Allister. Onion (Japanese: たまねぎスライス Onion Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Red Onion

Red Onion (Japanese: アーリーレッド Early Red) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Green Bell Pepper

Green Bell Pepper (Japanese: ピーマンスライス Bell Pepper Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Red Bell Pepper

Red Bell Pepper (Japanese: あかパプリカスライス Red Paprika Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Yellow Bell Pepper

Yellow Bell Pepper (Japanese: きパプリカスライス Yellow Paprika Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Avocado

Avocado (Japanese: アボカド Avocado) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Bacon

Bacon (Japanese: やきベーコン Grilled Bacon) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Ham

If you were looking for the Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire character, see Master Hamm. Ham (Japanese: ハムスライス Ham Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Prosciutto

Prosciutto (Japanese: なまハム Raw Ham) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Chorizo

Chorizo (Japanese: やきチョリソー Grilled Chorizo) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Herbed Sausage

Herbed Sausage (Japanese: ハーブソーセージ Herb Sausage) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Hamburger

This article is about the sandwich ingredient. For the curry ingredient, see Precooked Burger. Hamburger (Japanese: ハンバーグ Hamburger) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Klawf Stick

Klawf Stick (Japanese: ガケガニスティック Gakegani Stick) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Smoked Fillet

Smoked Fillet (Japanese: スモークきりみ Smoked Fillet) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Fried Fillet

Fried Fillet (Japanese: きりみフライ Fillet Fry) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Potato Tortilla

Potato Tortilla (Japanese: トルティージャ Tortilla) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Tofu

Tofu (Japanese: トーフ Tofu) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Rice

Rice (Japanese: ライス Rice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Noodles

This article is about the sandwich ingredient. For the curry ingredient, see Instant Noodles. Noodles (Japanese: ヌードル Noodles) are a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Potato Salad

Potato Salad (Japanese: ポテトサラダ Potato Salad) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Cheese

Not to be confused with Cream Cheese or Moomoo Cheese. Cheese (Japanese: スライスチーズ Sliced Cheese) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Banana

If you were looking for the Mystery Dungeon item, see Food (Mystery Dungeon)→Banana. Banana (Japanese: バナナスライス Banana Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Strawberry

Strawberry (Japanese: いちごスライス Strawberry Slice) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Apple

For the apples used as sandwich ingredients in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, see Apple (item). For the apples used to evolve Applin, see Tart Apple, Sweet Apple, and Syrupy Apple. For the apple used as a curry ingredient in Pokémon Sword and Shield, see Fancy Apple. For the apples in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series, see Food (Mystery Dungeon). For the apple-like fruit thrown at wild Pokémon in Pokémon Snap, see Pokémon food → Apple-shaped Pokémon food. For the apple-like fruit in New Pokémon Snap, see Fluffruit.

Title: Kiwi

Kiwi (Japanese: わぎりキウイ Round Sliced Kiwi) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Pineapple

Pineapple (Japanese: カットパイン Cut Pine) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Horseradish

Horseradish (Japanese: ホースラディッシュ Horseradish) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Curry Powder

Curry Powder (Japanese: カレーパウダー Curry Powder) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Wasabi

If you were looking for the Warden in Pokémon Legends: Arceus with the Japanese name Wasabi, see Sabi. Wasabi (Japanese: ワサビソース Wasabi Sauce) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich. In Dot and Nidothing, Iono and get Bellibolt were seen promoting a bottle of wasabi sauce on a digital billboard in Levincia.

Title: Watercress

Watercress (Japanese: クレソン Watercress) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Basil

Basil (Japanese: バジル Basil) is a type of ingredient introduced in Generation IX. It can be used as an ingredient in making a sandwich.

Title: Gimmighoul Coin

The Gimmighoul Coin (Japanese: コレクレーのコイン Collecurei Coin) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, it is treated as a TM Material. Having 999 Gimmighoul Coins causes Gimmighoul to evolve into Gholdengo when it levels up (or, in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, is manually evolved), consuming the coins in the process. Despite being categorized as a TM Material in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Gimmighoul Coins are not actually used to make any TMs. In Pokémon GO, Gimmighoul Coins are used to evolve Gimmighoul into Gholdengo. Unlike other Evolution items, Gimmighoul Coins do not take up space in the player's Item Bag, and they cannot be discarded. This item was originally called the ?????? Coin (Japanese: ??????コイン ?????? Coin) prior to February 27, 2023. It first became available on November 5, 2022, immediately following Community Day Classic: Dratini, and a day before Gimmighoul's name was officially revealed. A player can evolve a Gimmighoul into Gholdengo if they have at least 999 Gimmighoul Coins in their Item Bag. Candy is not used for this Evolution, making Gimmighoul the only Pokémon in the game that evolves without Candy. Prior to February 27, 2023, as the ?????? Coin, this item was categorized as a Key Item and served no purpose in-game. Collecting one from a golden PokéStop caused a Roaming Form Gimmighoul to appear in the overworld, but it could not be caught until February 27, 2023. For the repeatable methods listed, the number of coins received and whether any coins are received at all are random, unless noted otherwise. In Pokémon Masters EX, Gimmighoul Coins are an event-exclusive item that could be collected during the special event Mysterious Old Coins and by completing the Get Gimmighoul Coins Mission Bingo. They could be exchanged in the Gimmighoul Coin Special Exchange for items. In Pokémon Café ReMix, Gimmighoul Coins are an event-exclusive item that can be obtained through Cook and Collect feature. Available since March 01, 2024, the "Collect with Gholdengo" event is active for periods of 4-5 days during which the player has to collect Gimmighoul coins in order to recruit Gholdengo. The coins are obtained by clearing Gimmighoul icons in the eligible puzzles, which at first included One-Minute Cooking and Slow Cooking events, but were later limited to Main Orders, Extra Orders and Master Café Mode starting on September 18, 2025. Clearing Roaming Form icons gives the player 1 coin; clearing Chest Form icons gives 5 coins. Only up to 50 coins can be collected per day. A total of 4,995 coins can be collected to unlock all the rewards from this event, which include Gholdengo, its outfit upgrades and all the Gholdengo cookies needed to unlock all its levels. Gimmighoul Coins first appeared in The Terapagos I Don't Know. One was first discovered by Ludlow, but was snatched from him almost immediately. Later, Roy collected a coin dropped by a Roaming Form Gimmighoul and went on collecting coins after being manipulated by a Chest Form Gimmighoul, who then took the coins and left. With the addition of the same Chest Form Gimmighoul to the wild Pokémon roster living aboard the Brave Olivine in The Knight in the Ruins and, later, to Dot's team in Riding the Waves, Gimmighoul Coins became a recurring item in the series. In HZ120, after it finally managed to gather 1,000 coins, Dot's Gimmighoul evolved into Gholdengo. A Gimmighoul Coin appeared in Breathe Out, where it was taken away by a Corviknight. A Gimmighoul Coin first appeared in Raid! The Dark Crew Base!!, where Scarlet was revealed to be collecting them as part of her profession as a treasure hunter. In Skillful! The Mysterious Treasure Hunter!!, Scarlet defeated a Chest Form Gimmighoul at a watchtower at South Province (Area Two) and collected 60 coins from it, bringing her total up to 88. In a flashback in Acquisition! New Ability: Dash!!, Scarlet collected more coins from another Chest Form Gimmighoul at South Province (Area Three).

Title: Picnic Set

The Picnic Set (Japanese: ピクニックセット Picnic Set) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Picnic Set allows the player to set up picnics from the menu.

Title: Academy Bottle

The Academy Bottle (Japanese: スクールボトル School Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Academy Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Striped Bottle

The Striped Bottle (Japanese: ストライプボトル Stripe Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Striped Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Diamond Bottle

The Diamond Bottle (Japanese: ダイヤボトル Diamond Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Diamond Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Academy Cup

The Academy Cup (Japanese: スクールカップ School Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Academy Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Striped Cup

The Striped Cup (Japanese: たてストライプカップ Vertical Stripe Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Striped Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Flower Pattern Cup

The Flower Pattern Cup (Japanese: フラワーカップ Flower Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Flower Pattern Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Academy Tablecloth

The Academy Tablecloth (Japanese: スクールクロス School Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Academy Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Academy Chairs if the Academy Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Whimsical Tablecloth

The Whimsical Tablecloth (Japanese: ファンシークロス Fancy Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Whimsical Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Whimsical Chairs if the Whimsical Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Leafy Tablecloth

The Leafy Tablecloth (Japanese: ネイチャークロス Nature Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Leafy Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Leafy Chairs if the Leafy Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Spooky Tablecloth

The Spooky Tablecloth (Japanese: うらめしクロス Scary Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Spooky Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Spooky Chairs if the Spooky Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Academy Ball

The Academy Ball (Japanese: スクールボール School Ball) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Academy Ball can be brought out during a picnic to be kicked around by the player and their party Pokémon.

Title: Marill Ball

The Marill Ball (Japanese: マリルボール Maril Ball) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Marill Ball can be brought out during a picnic to be kicked around by the player and their party Pokémon.

Title: Yarn Ball

The Yarn Ball (Japanese: けいとボール Yarn Ball) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Yarn Ball can be brought out during a picnic to be kicked around by the player and their party Pokémon.

Title: Cyber Ball

For the handheld spin-off game, see Cyber Poké Ball The Cyber Ball (Japanese: ゲーミングボール Gaming Ball) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Cyber Ball can be brought out during a picnic to be kicked around by the player and their party Pokémon.

Title: Gold Pick

The Gold Pick (Japanese: ゴールドピック Gold Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Gold Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Silver Pick

The Silver Pick (Japanese: シルバーピック Silver Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Silver Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Winking Pika Pick

The Winking Pika Pick (Japanese: パチピカピック Crackling Pika Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Winking Pika Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Smiling Vee Pick

The Smiling Vee Pick (Japanese: ニコブイピック Smile Vee Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Smiling Vee Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Auspicious Armor

The Auspicious Armor (Japanese: イワイノヨロイ Auspicious Armor) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Causes Charcadet to evolve into Armarouge upon use. This consumes the Auspicious Armor. A set of Auspicious Armor first appeared in HZ123, being given to Liko by her grandmother in order for her to evolve her Charcadet. In the following episode, Charcadet wore the armor during a battle against Indi and Rubina's two Salamence alongside Amethio's Ceruledge. During the climax of the battle, the armor triggered Charcadet's Evolution into Armarouge. A set of Auspicious Armor appeared in PT16 in Yūto's home. It was passed down in Yūto's family for generations, with a legend saying it was related to Charcadet. After hearing it, Yūto's Charcadet felt compelled to touch the armor and evolved into Armarouge as a result. A set of Auspicious Armor appeared in a flashback in Challenge! The Avant-Garde Gym Leader!!, where it was given to Scarlet by Mela, along with a Charcadet. She later used it to evolve Charcadet into Armarouge. Unlike with other Pokémon that have evolved using Evolution items in the animated series, Liko's Charcadet did not glow during its Evolution sequence; the Auspicious Armor did, instead.

Title: Pink Bottle

The Pink Bottle (Japanese: ピンクボトル Pink Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Pink Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Blue Bottle

The Blue Bottle (Japanese: ブルーボトル Blue Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Blue Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Yellow Bottle

The Yellow Bottle (Japanese: イエローボトル Yellow Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Yellow Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Silver Bottle

The Silver Bottle (Japanese: シルバーチタンボトル Silver Titanium Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Silver Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Barred Cup

The Barred Cup (Japanese: よこストライプカップ Horizontal Stripe Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Barred Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Diamond Pattern Cup

The Diamond Pattern Cup (Japanese: ダイヤカップ Diamond Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Diamond Pattern Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Fire Pattern Cup

The Fire Pattern Cup (Japanese: ファイヤーカップ Fire Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Fire Pattern Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Pink Cup

The Pink Cup (Japanese: ピンクカップ Pink Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Pink Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Blue Cup

The Blue Cup (Japanese: ブルーカップ Blue Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Blue Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Yellow Cup

If you were looking for the Stadium Cup known as the Yellow Cup in Japanese, see Pika Cup. The Yellow Cup (Japanese: イエローカップ Yellow Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Yellow Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Pikachu Cup

The Pikachu Cup (Japanese: ピカチュウカップ Pikachu Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Pikachu Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Eevee Cup

The Eevee Cup (Japanese: イーブイカップ Eievui Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Eevee Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Slowpoke Cup

The Slowpoke Cup (Japanese: ヤドンカップ Yadon Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Slowpoke Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Silver Cup

The Silver Cup (Japanese: シルバーチタンカップ Silver Titanium Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Silver Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Exercise Ball

The Exercise Ball (Japanese: バランスボール Balance Ball) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Exercise Ball can be brought out during a picnic to be kicked around by the player and their party Pokémon.

Title: Battle Tablecloth

The Battle Tablecloth (Japanese: しょうぶクロス Match Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Battle Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Battle Chairs if the Battle Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Monstrous Tablecloth

The Monstrous Tablecloth (Japanese: かいじゅうクロス Monster Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Monstrous Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Monstrous Chairs if the Monstrous Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Striped Tablecloth

The Striped Tablecloth (Japanese: ストライプクロス Stripe Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Striped Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Striped Chairs if the Striped Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Diamond Tablecloth

The Diamond Tablecloth (Japanese: ダイヤクロス Diamond Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Diamond Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Diamond Chairs if the Diamond Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Lilac Tablecloth

The Lilac Tablecloth (Japanese: パープルクロス Purple Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Lilac Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Lilac Chairs if the Lilac Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Mint Tablecloth

The Mint Tablecloth (Japanese: ミントクロス Mint Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Mint Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Mint Chairs if the Mint Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Peach Tablecloth

The Peach Tablecloth (Japanese: ベージュクロス Beige Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Peach Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Peach Chairs if the Peach Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Yellow Tablecloth

The Yellow Tablecloth (Japanese: イエロークロス Yellow Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Yellow Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Yellow Chairs if the Yellow Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Blue Tablecloth

The Blue Tablecloth (Japanese: ブルークロス Blue Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Blue Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Blue Chairs if the Blue Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Pink Tablecloth

The Pink Tablecloth (Japanese: ピンククロス Pink Cloth) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Pink Tablecloth serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic. A picnicker on Reveler's Road in front of the Kitakami Hall will give the player the Pink Chairs if the Pink Tablecloth is in their possession.

Title: Gold Bottle

The Gold Bottle (Japanese: ゴールドチタンボトル Gold Titanium Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Gold Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Bronze Bottle

The Bronze Bottle (Japanese: ブロンズチタンボトル Bronze Titanium Bottle) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Bronze Bottle serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Gold Cup

The Gold Cup (Japanese: ゴールドチタンカップ Gold Titanium Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Gold Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Bronze Cup

The Bronze Cup (Japanese: ブロンズチタンカップ Bronze Titanium Cup) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Bronze Cup serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Party Sparkler Pick

The Party Sparkler Pick (Japanese: おいわいはなびピック Celebration Fireworks Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Party Sparkler Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Heroic Sword Pick

The Heroic Sword Pick (Japanese: ゆうしゃのけんピック Hero's Sword Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Heroic Sword Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Magical Star Pick

The Magical Star Pick (Japanese: マジカルスターピック Magical Star Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Magical Star Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Magical Heart Pick

The Magical Heart Pick (Japanese: マジカルハートピック Magical Heart Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Magical Heart Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Parasol Pick

The Parasol Pick (Japanese: パラソルピック Parasol Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Parasol Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Sunset Flower Pick

The Sunset Flower Pick (Japanese: ゆうやけおはなピック Sunset Flower Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Sunset Flower Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Sunrise Flower Pick

The Sunrise Flower Pick (Japanese: あさやけおはなピック Sunrise Flower Pick) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Sunrise Flower Pick can be used to complete a sandwich made during a picnic.

Title: Blue Dish

The Blue Dish (Japanese: ブループレート Blue Plate) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. It is currently unobtainable. The Blue Dish serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Green Dish

The Green Dish (Japanese: グリーンプレート Green Plate) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. The Green Dish is used by default during sandwich making to place the sandwich.

Title: Orange Dish

The Orange Dish (Japanese: オレンジプレート Orange Plate) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. It is currently unobtainable. The Orange Dish serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Red Dish

The Red Dish (Japanese: レッドプレート Red Plate) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. It is currently unobtainable. The Red Dish serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: White Dish

The White Dish (Japanese: ホワイトプレート White Plate) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. It is currently unobtainable. The White Dish serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Yellow Dish

The Yellow Dish (Japanese: イエロープレート Yellow Plate) is a type of picnic item introduced in Generation IX. It is currently unobtainable. The Yellow Dish serves no practical purpose other than to decorate the player's picnic.

Title: Teal Style Card

If you were looking for the Key Item from The Isle of Armor, see Style Card. The Teal Style Card (Japanese: おしゃれカードみどり Turquoise Fashion Card) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX. The Teal Style Card gives the player more options at certain clothing stores and at hair salons.

Title: Teal Mask

This article is about the Key Item. For the expansion for Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, see The Teal Mask. The Teal Mask (Japanese: みどりのめん Green Mask) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX, and the titular item of The Teal Mask. The Teal Mask is to be returned to Ogerpon as part of the plot. Ogerpon wears the Teal Mask in its Teal Mask form, which is its default form when it is not holding the Wellspring Mask, Hearthflame Mask, or Cornerstone Mask. Main article: Ogre's Mask (Twilight Masquerade 159) The Teal Mask is depicted alongside the rest of Ogerpon's masks in the Ogre's Mask card, which was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was released in the Japanese Transformation Mask expansion and the English Twilight Masquerade expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows the player to search their discard pile for a Pokémon ex card with "Ogerpon" in its name, and switch it with another "Ogerpon"-named Pokémon ex card already in play, essentially "changing" its form.

Title: Glimmering Charm

The Glimmering Charm (Japanese: きらめくおまもり Sparkling Charm) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX. Upon completion of a Tera Raid Battle, the Glittering Charm adds an extra item slot with Tera Shards of the Raid's type to the reward list. The number of Shards in this slot depends on the Raid's difficulty: The Glimmering Charm has no effect on 1★, 2★, or 7★ Tera Raids.

Title: Crystal Cluster

The Crystal Cluster (Japanese: けっしょうのかけら Crystal Fragment) is a Key Item introduced in Generation IX. The Crystal Cluster is used by Kieran and Carmine's grandpa to repair Ogerpon's Teal Mask.

Title: Fairy Feather

Fairy Feather (Japanese: ようせいのハネ Fairy Feather) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IX that boosts the power of Fairy-type moves. Boosts the power of the holder's Fairy-type moves by 20%. The Fairy Feather is the last non-consumable type-enhancing item to be introduced that is not related to a specific Pokémon, such as Plates. Prior to the introduction of the Fairy Feather in The Teal Mask, the Fairy Gem and Pixie Plate were introduced as held items that boost the power of Fairy-type attacks, but only the latter has ever been made obtainable.

Title: Wellspring Mask

The Wellspring Mask (Japanese: いどのめん Well Mask) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IX. It changes Ogerpon to its Wellspring Mask form while held. If an Ogerpon is holding a Wellspring Mask, it changes to its Wellspring Mask form. It increases the power of its moves by 20%. Main article: Ogre's Mask (Twilight Masquerade 159) The Wellspring Mask is depicted alongside the rest of Ogerpon's masks in the Ogre's Mask card, which was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was released in the Japanese Transformation Mask expansion and the English Twilight Masquerade expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows the player to search their discard pile for a Pokémon ex card with "Ogerpon" in its name, and switch it with another "Ogerpon"-named Pokémon ex card already in play, essentially "changing" its form.

Title: Hearthflame Mask

The Hearthflame Mask (Japanese: かまどのめん Kamado Mask) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IX. It changes Ogerpon to its Hearthflame Mask form while held. If an Ogerpon is holding a Hearthflame Mask, it changes to its Hearthflame Mask form. It increases the power of its moves by 20%. Main article: Ogre's Mask (Twilight Masquerade 159) The Hearthflame Mask is depicted alongside the rest of Ogerpon's masks in the Ogre's Mask card, which was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was released in the Japanese Transformation Mask expansion and the English Twilight Masquerade expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows the player to search their discard pile for a Pokémon ex card with "Ogerpon" in its name, and switch it with another "Ogerpon"-named Pokémon ex card already in play, essentially "changing" its form.

Title: Cornerstone Mask

The Cornerstone Mask (Japanese: いしずえのめん Cornerstone Mask) is a type of held item introduced in Generation IX. It changes Ogerpon to its Cornerstone Mask form while held. If an Ogerpon is holding a Cornerstone Mask, it changes to its Cornerstone Mask form. It increases the power of its moves by 20%. Main article: Ogre's Mask (Twilight Masquerade 159) The Cornerstone Mask is depicted alongside the rest of Ogerpon's masks in the Ogre's Mask card, which was introduced as an Item card in the Pokémon Trading Card Game during the English Scarlet & Violet Series (the Japanese Scarlet & Violet Era). It was released in the Japanese Transformation Mask expansion and the English Twilight Masquerade expansion, with artwork by 5ban Graphics. It allows the player to search their discard pile for a Pokémon ex card with "Ogerpon" in its name, and switch it with another "Ogerpon"-named Pokémon ex card already in play, essentially "changing" its form.

Title: Syrupy Apple

The Syrupy Apple (Japanese: みついりりんご Honeycore Apple) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Causes Applin to evolve into Dipplin upon use. This consumes the Syrupy Apple. Syrupy Apples were added to Pokémon GO on October 10, 2025. Syrupy Apples are required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon GO. They are consumed upon use. Applin requires 200 and 20 Syrupy Apples to evolve into Dipplin. Tapping apples that appear near PokéStops can award either Sweet Apples, Tart Apples, Syrupy Apples, or an encounter with a wild Applin. Apples will also have an increased chance of appearing at PokéStops with Mossy Lure Modules.

Title: Unremarkable Teacup

The Unremarkable Teacup (Japanese: ボンサクのちゃわん Mediocre Tea Bowl) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Causes Counterfeit Form Poltchageist to evolve into Unremarkable Form Sinistcha upon use. This consumes the item.

Title: Masterpiece Teacup

The Masterpiece Teacup (Japanese: ケッサクのちゃわん Masterpiece Tea Bowl) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. Causes Artisan Form Poltchageist to evolve into Masterpiece Form Sinistcha upon use. This consumes the item.

Title: Health Mochi

The Health Mochi (Japanese: たいりょくのもち Stamina Mochi) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of mochi that increases the EVs of one of a Pokémon's stats. If used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's HP EVs by 10.

Title: Muscle Mochi

The Muscle Mochi (Japanese: きんりょくのもち Muscle Mochi) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of mochi that increases the EVs of one of a Pokémon's stats. If used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Attack EVs by 10.

Title: Resist Mochi

The Resist Mochi (Japanese: ていこうのもち Resistance Mochi) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of mochi that increases the EVs of one of a Pokémon's stats. If used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Defense EVs by 10.

Title: Genius Mochi

The Genius Mochi (Japanese: ちりょくのもち Intelligence Mochi) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of mochi that increases the EVs of one of a Pokémon's stats. If used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Sp. Atk EVs by 10.

Title: Clever Mochi

The Clever Mochi (Japanese: せいしんのもち Mind Mochi) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of mochi that increases the EVs of one of a Pokémon's stats. If used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Sp. Def EVs by 10.

Title: Swift Mochi

The Swift Mochi (Japanese: しゅんぱつのもち Instant Mochi) is a type of item introduced in Generation IX. It is a type of mochi that increases the EVs of one of a Pokémon's stats. If used from the Bag on a Pokémon, it increases that Pokémon's Speed EVs by 10.

Title: Linking Cord

The Linking Cord (Japanese: つながりのヒモ Linking Cord) is a type of Evolution item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It allows Kadabra, Machoke, Graveler, and Haunter to evolve into Alakazam, Machamp, Golem, and Gengar, respectively. The Linking Cord triggers the Evolution of certain Pokémon (all of which can alternatively evolve when traded) upon use. This consumes the Linking Cord. The Linking Cord is required to evolve certain Pokémon in Pokémon Sleep. It is consumed upon use. Graveler requires 80 Geodude Candy and a Linking Cord to evolve into Golem. Slowpoke requires 80 Slowpoke Candy, a Linking Cord, and a King's Rock to evolve into Slowking. Haunter requires 80 Gastly Candy and a Linking Cord to evolve into Gengar. Onix requires 80 Onix Candy, a Linking Cord, and a Metal Coat to evolve into Steelix. As of version 1.0.13, if the Linking Cord is used from the Bag, it will reward the player with 5 candies of a random Pokémon that evolves using the Linking Cord. While the Linking Cord is used to evolve Pokémon that evolve through trading, it cannot be used to evolve Pokémon that evolve by trading with a held item; instead, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, those Pokémon evolve simply by using that item on them. This item is a reference to the Game Link Cable, which is used to trade Pokémon (and consequently activate trade Evolutions) in the first three generations of core series games (outside of trading using the Game Boy Advance Wireless Adapter). The sprite of the Linking Cord in Pokémon Legends: Arceus takes influence from a form of Japanese knot tying called Mizuhiki. The knot in particular is an Awaji knot, which is used to represent togetherness — a possible nod to the Link Cable's original use. There is an Evolution item in the first three games of the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series called Link Cable, which works similarly to the Linking Cord but predates its introduction.

Title: Black Augurite

The Black Augurite (Japanese: くろのきせき Black Augite) is a type of item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It allows Scyther to evolve into Kleavor. Causes Scyther to evolve into Kleavor upon use. This consumes the Black Augurite. Despite being unobtainable in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the Terarium has a deposit of Black Augurite in the Canyon Biome, with Kleavor and Scyther being able to spawn around it.

Title: Peat Block

The Peat Block (Japanese: ピートブロック Peat Block) is a type of item introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It allows Ursaring to evolve into Ursaluna. Causes Ursaring to evolve into Ursaluna when used during a full moon. This consumes the Peat Block.

