Title: Pound (move)

Pound redirects here. If you were looking for the weight measurement, see List of Pokémon by weight. Pound (Japanese: はたく Pound) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Pound inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Pound is affected by King's Rock in all generations other than Generation IV. In Generation III, Pound can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing DoubleSlap, Faint Attack, and Slam to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Pound is Jigglypuff's neutral special in Super Smash Bros. and its side special from Super Smash Bros. Melee onwards. It is mainly used as an alternate recovery move, since its up special, Sing, does not help Jigglypuff recover. The move does extra shield damage and can thus be used to easily break shields. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer In A Conk on Cranidos's Cranium, Platinum's Piplup was mentioned to know Pound. However, she was never seen using it. Professor Birch's Treecko was revealed to know Pound on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Pound is the first Generation I move in index number order. Prior to the 1.2.0 update, Pound also appeared at index numbers 875 and 876 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. These were placeholders for the moves Psyblade and Hydro Steam, respectively. In Pokémon Platinum, Secret Power has the animation of Pound when used in the Distortion World.

Title: Karate Chop (move)

Karate Chop (Japanese: からてチョップ Karate Chop) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was a Normal-type move. Karate Chop deals damage and has an increased critical-hit ratio. Karate Chop can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. It can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination and gives an extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Karate Chop deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Contrary to its move description, Karate Chop erroneously did not have an increased critical hit ratio in the Rescue Team series. In The Cave of Mirrors!, Mirror Ash ordered his Hawlucha to use Karate Chop, but due to him being too timid to attack, Hawlucha was never seen using the move. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Karate Chop is one of four moves to have its type changed in Generation II; the others are Gust, Bite, and Sand Attack. They were all Normal-type moves in Generation I.

Title: Double Slap (move)

Double Slap (Japanese: おうふくビンタ Round Trip Slap), formatted as DoubleSlap prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. DoubleSlap inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. In this generation only, DoubleSlap will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. All strikes now do damage independently, enabling any of them to be critical hits. DoubleSlap may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using DoubleSlap unless it misses. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. DoubleSlap can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Pound was used in the previous turn. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 15% base miss chance) is now 39.5. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. Double Slap inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In The Escape, Green's Jigglypuff, Jiggly, was revealed to know Double Slap by her Pokédex. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Despite being called "Double Slap", this move, like most multistrike moves, can hit the opponent up to five times. However, the Japanese, Chinese, Korean, and French names for Double Slap do not indicate a specific number of strikes.

Title: Comet Punch (move)

If you were looking for the move that is known as Comet Punch in Japanese, see Meteor Mash. Comet Punch (Japanese: れんぞくパンチ Consecutive Punch) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. It is TM108 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Comet Punch inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. Comet Punch will end instantly upon breaking a substitute. Bide and Counter deal damage based on the last strike alone. Each strike has an independent chance of being a critical hit. Comet Punch may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If Comet Punch activates a target's Focus Band, no subsequent hits can knock it out. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Each strike has an independent chance of activating an Ability that activates upon contact. If Effect Spore causes the attacker to fall asleep, the move will end immediately. If Comet Punch activates the target's Focus Sash, no subsequent hits can knock it out. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 15% base miss chance) is now 47.4. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. Each individual strike will activate Weak Armor, Stamina, or a Rocky Helmet. Spiky Shield and King's Shield only activate once. Parental Bond does not activate when using Comet Punch. Starting from the Mega Dimension DLC, Comet Punch is selectable again. Comet Punch's power has been increased from 18 to 30. Comet Punch will always hit 5 times. When used as a Plus Move, it will always hit 6 times. Comet Punch inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (1% in the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Mountain Time, Benji's Ledian was commanded to use Comet Punch, but could not execute the move. Comet Punch is one of two moves in the main series games to have a base power that is not a multiple of 5, the other being Fury Swipes. Pin Missile was a third until its base power was increased to 25 in Generation VI. According to its Pokédex entry, Kangaskhan is skilled at attacking using Comet Punch.

Title: Mega Punch (move)

Mega Punch (Japanese: メガトンパンチ Megaton Punch) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM01 in Generation I and TM00 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Mega Kick, being the same type and having a similar name. Mega Punch deals damage and has no secondary effect. Mega Punch can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy or Mind Reader was used in the previous turn. In Charizard Chills, Ash told his Charizard to use Mega Punch, but he chose not to execute the move out of disobedience. In the English dub of A Tyrogue Full of Trouble, Kiyo commanded his Hitmonchan to use Mega Punch. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, he instead told Hitmonchan to use Mach Punch. Torchic and Togekiss can learn Mega Punch despite them lacking any visible arms.

Title: Pay Day (move)

Pay Day (Japanese: ネコにこばん Coin for a Cat) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. In Generations II and III, it was the signature move of Meowth and Persian, and from Generations IV to VI, it was the signature move of Meowth. TM57 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Pay Day deals damage and scatters coins on the ground. The amount of coins increases directly with the user's level. If the player wins the battle or ends a wild encounter with a move that forces the opponent to flee (such as Roar or Dragon Tail), they will pick up all the scattered coins and receive the money amount. The amount of money from Pay Day is doubled if any of the player's Pokémon takes part in battle while holding an Amulet Coin or Luck Incense; however, this effect can only be applied once, regardless of how many additional Pokémon hold these items. Having more than one Pokémon holding the items does not increase the money amount any further. Either side flees or Teleports, unless the player forces the wild Pokémon to flee. The wild Pokémon ends the battle with a move that forces the player to flee. The battle is a link battle, Max Raid Battle, or Tera Raid Battle, or is part of a battle facility. Pay Day scatters coins with a value equal to twice the user's level (at the time the move was used), up to 200 coins if the user is level 100. Pay Day will normally scatter coins when it hits a substitute, but fails to do so if it breaks the substitute. In this generation, the maximum amount of Pay Day coins allowed per battle is $999,999. After this, the game still states that coins are scattered with every use of Pay Day, but the value of coins stored by the game will not increase any further. At the end of the battle, the player picks up all coins that were scattered by both their own Pokémon and opposing Pokémon. Pay Day now scatters coins even if the move breaks a substitute. Pay Day now scatters coins equal to five times the user's level each time. The player can now only pick up coins that were scattered by their own Pokémon. Pay Day hitting a substitute will no longer scatter coins (even if the substitute breaks). If the user levels up during battle, the amount of money collected is now calculated based on the new level, not the level at which the move was used. If Pay Day is used by a Pokémon with Parental Bond (e.g. by using Skill Swap), coins are only scattered on the first hit. Happy Hour increases the amount of money picked up. Prize Money Power increases the amount of money picked up. If the user has a level higher than 100 (which is not allowed in normal gameplay, but is possible via some methods such as the old man glitch), Pay Day still works as usual up to level 127, scattering up to $254 per use. This move would scatter $0 if the user is level 0, but no message is displayed. However, if the user's level is between 128 and 255, Pay Day scatters an amount of money equal to (level−128)×2. For instance, Pay Day scatters $0 at level 128, $100 at level 178, and $254 at level 255. Pokémon over Level 100 cannot be traded from Generation I into Generation II due to a message that the Pokémon is abnormal, but it is possible to obtain one in Generation II with a means of arbitrary code execution such as the Coin Case glitch. Unlike Generation I and II, Pay Day gives the expected amount of money for Levels 101-255 (five times the level; so a maximum of $1275 per use). As before, this move would scatter $0 if the user is level 0, but no message is displayed. Pokémon over Level 100 can be obtained using an arbitrary code execution method such as viewing a glitch Pokémon's animation or using a glitch move from Glitzer Popping. Due to a minor glitch in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, the wrong amount of money will be displayed if the Amulet Coin is held (including for Levels 1-100). The correct amount is still gained after the battle. This error was fixed in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen and all subsequent games. Pay Day deals damage. If the target is knocked out with this move, it will drop Poké (on top of their held item, if any). This effect will not trigger if the target is recruited. The move's secondary effect will not occur in all dungeons (for example, not in mazes in Super Mystery Dungeon). When a Meowth appears from a Poké Ball in Super Smash Bros., Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, it uses Pay Day to hurl coins at opponents. The Japanese name of the move is an idiom equivalent to "to cast pearls before swine." The coins depicted in the move's animation are koban, gold coins used in the Edo period of feudal Japan, the same type of coin as the one on Meowth's head. In Generation I, Pay Day was one of only three methods (discounting glitches) to earn money once all Trainers were defeated, the other two being selling items (obtaining them with Coins after all other items are sold) and battling the Elite Four and Champion. In Generation I, Pay Day can be used to obtain up to $999,999 per battle. However, this maximum amount would require using this move at least 5000 times in the same battle. For instance, obtaining the maximum amount of money in a single battle is achievable in this generation by using a Mew with Pay Day, Rest, and Transform against a wild Ditto. Once Ditto transforms into Mew, they will both have the same moveset, including Pay Day, as well as Rest to restore their own HP. The opponent has infinite PP by default, while the player's Pokémon can indefinitely restore its own PP by repeatedly transforming into the opponent and obtaining its moves again.

Title: Fire Punch (move)

Fire Punch (Japanese: ほのおのパンチ Flame Punch) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation I. TM31 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Ice Punch and Thunder Punch, having similar names and effects. Fire Punch does damage and has a 10% chance of burning the opponent. Fire Punch can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Ice Punch and ThunderPunch to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Ice Punch, Sunny Day, or ThunderPunch was used in the previous turn. Fire Punch's PP was reduced from 15 to 10 and its chance of burning the opponent was increased from 10% to 30%. Fire Punch inflicts damage, and may leave the target with a burn. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. In A Cheeky Charizard Change-Up I, Crystal's Alakazam was mentioned to know Fire Punch, but it was never seen using the move. In some games, the Pokédex states that Emboar can "throw a fire punch". However, this was first said in Pokémon Black, while Emboar was unable to learn the move Fire Punch until Pokémon Black 2 and White 2. In the Japanese version of the Pokédex entries, the "fire punch" is written as 「ほのおの パンチ」 (in the kanji version, the equivalent is 「炎の パンチ」). Except for the addition of a space, this is almost the same as 「ほのおのパンチ」 (the Japanese name of Fire Punch). Similarly, the English Pokédex text mentions "fire punch" in lowercase, while moves like "Fire Punch" are written in title case instead.

Title: Ice Punch (move)

Ice Punch (Japanese: れいとうパンチ Freezing Punch) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation I. TM35 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Fire Punch and Thunder Punch, having similar names and effects. Ice Punch does damage and has a 10% chance of freezing the target. Ice Punch can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Fire Punch and ThunderPunch to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Fire Punch or ThunderPunch was used in the previous turn. Ice Punch's PP was reduced from 15 to 10 and has a 30% chance of giving the opponent frostbite (the replacement for the frozen status). Ice Punch deals damage and may leave the target frozen. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target frozen. In A Cheeky Charizard Change-Up I, Crystal's Alakazam was mentioned to know Ice Punch, but it was never seen using the move. During the Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire pre-release period, Blaziken was shown to be able to use this move. However, the Official Japanese Pokémon website posted an apology shortly after the games' release confirming Blaziken could not know the move after all.

Title: Thunder Punch (move)

Thunder Punch (Japanese: かみなりパンチ Thunder Punch), formatted as ThunderPunch prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation I. TM23 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Ice Punch and Fire Punch, having similar names and effects. ThunderPunch does damage and has a 10% chance of paralyzing the opponent. ThunderPunch cannot paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. ThunderPunch can now paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. ThunderPunch can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Fire Punch and Ice Punch to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Charge, Fire Punch, or Ice Punch was used in the previous turn. Thunder Punch can no longer paralyze Electric-type Pokémon once again, due to them now being immune to paralysis. Thunder Punch can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. Thunder Punch's PP was reduced from 15 to 10 and its chance of paralyzing the opponent was increased from 10% to 30%. Thunder Punch inflicts damage and may leave the target paralyzed. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In To Master the Onixpected!, on a videotape watched by Ash and Brock, Bruno told his Hitmonchan to use Thunder Punch, but Misty closed the television before the move's execution could be shown. Melmetal is programmed to be able to learn this move upon Evolution in Pokémon Sword and Shield. However, this is impossible to occur due to Meltan being unable to evolve in the core series.

Title: Scratch (move)

Scratch (Japanese: ひっかく Scratch) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Scratch inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Scratch can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Fury Swipes and Slash to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Leer was used in the previous turn. In Classroom Training!, Jeremiah told his Skuntank to use Scratch, but due to it being incapacitated by James's Carnivine's Vine Whip, it was unable to execute the move. In Zap!! A Rising Beam of Light, Henry mentioned that his Grookey, Twiggy, knows Scratch. However, he has never been seen using the move. Maizie's Teddiursa was revealed to know Scratch on the official website, but she has never been shown using the move.

Title: Guillotine (move)

Guillotine (Japanese: ハサミギロチン Pincer Guillotine) is a Normal-type one-hit knockout move introduced in Generation I. Guillotine always inflicts exactly 65535 HP damage if it hits. Its accuracy is 30%. Guillotine will break a substitute if it hits. Unlike other moves that skip the damage formula, Guillotine does not bypass type immunities. Guillotine will not affect a target whose current Speed stat is greater than the user's current Speed stat. Guillotine now inflicts damage equal to the target's current HP. The accuracy of Guillotine is now calculated using the following formula: If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails (Speed no longer has any impact on the success of Guillotine). If the user is 90 levels or more higher than the target, Guillotine's accuracy is 100% (even though the formula would produce values over 100% for a difference of 91 or more). This formula means that the accuracy starts at approximately 30% (76256) when the Pokémon have the same level, and grows by approximately 0.78% (2256) for every level higher than the target that the user is. This accuracy is affected by accuracy and evasion stats. Despite having an accuracy of 30% listed, Guillotine's chance of hitting a Pokémon is instead calculated using the following formula: This formula means that the accuracy starts at 30% when the Pokémon have the same level, and is 1% more likely to hit for every level the user is higher than the target. If the user is at least 70 levels higher than the target, Guillotine will always hit. If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails. This chance of hitting is not an accuracy: it is not affected by accuracy and evasion stats, nor is it affected by other accuracy modifiers such as Gravity, Wide Lens, and Compound Eyes. Additionally, Guillotine cannot hit a semi-invulnerable Pokémon. However, effects that guarantee moves to hit (such as No Guard and Lock-On) still affect Guillotine if the user's level isn't lower than the target's. Guillotine can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if ViceGrip was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Lock-On, Mind Reader and Miracle Eye was used in the prior turn. When used in a Max Raid Battle against a Dynamax Pokémon while it is under the effect of a mysterious barrier, Guillotine will deplete two bars of the barrier's strength. Otherwise, Guillotine will always fail against Dynamax Pokémon. Tera Raid bosses are unaffected by Guillotine. Guillotine defeats the target in one hit. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Guillotine knocks out the target by dealing "calamitous damage" (Japanese: とてつもない タメージ tremendous damage) which is internally treated as 9999 damage. Additionally, it will fail against Ghost-type Pokémon. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, a Pinsir that Emerald was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Guillotine by Emerald's Pokédex. The Axew and Pawniard evolutionary lines, as well as Kartana, can learn this move despite all seven lacking pincers (which are necessary for the move, as indicated by the move description and Japanese name). However, in the animated series, Pawniard and Bisharp are seen using this move by slashing at the opponent with their blades. With the exception of Smeargle, no Pokémon that learns Guillotine can learn any of the other one-hit knockout moves. And unlike the other one-hit knockout moves, Guillotine cannot be learned by any Pokémon that shares the same type as this move.

Title: Razor Wind (move)

If you were looking for the exploration team in the Mystery Dungeon games, see Team (Mystery Dungeon)#Team Razor Wind. Razor Wind (Japanese: かまいたち Razor Wind) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM02 in Generation I and TM145 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Razor Wind does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than saying "<Pokémon> made a whirlwind!". On the following turn, Razor Wind inflicts damage, PP is deducted, and it will count as the last move used. Once Razor Wind is selected, the user will be unable to switch out until Razor Wind has been disrupted or fully executed. Razor Wind has 75% accuracy. If Razor Wind is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted, and it will not count as the last move used. If the target uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user creates a whirlwind, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Razor Wind (or fail if it cannot). Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Razor Wind. In Pokémon Stadium, Mirror Move will copy Razor Wind on either of the turns it takes to execute. Razor Wind now has an increased critical hit ratio. If Razor Wind is disrupted from succeeding due to conditions such as flinching, paralysis, confusion, or sleep, the entire move will fail rather than being simply paused. Razor Wind now has an accuracy of 100%. It has no increased critical hit ratio. The charging turn now says "<Pokémon> whipped up a whirlwind!" In battles with multiple opponents, it targets all adjacent opponents. Razor Wind again has an increased critical hit ratio. If a Power Herb is held by the user, Razor Wind can be executed in one turn. Starting from the Mega Dimension DLC, Razor Wind is selectable again. Razor Wind is now a multistrike move with 40 power which has a long wind-up time, but releases 5 projectiles that follow the target. When used as a Plus Move, it releases 6 projectiles instead. The user gains the Razor Wind status for one turn, and then unleashes the move the next turn. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. This move has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Due to it being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Razor Wind cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. In FireRed and LeafGreen, Razor Wind's in-game description states it has an increased critical hit ratio. However, Razor Wind does not have an increased critical hit ratio in Generation III. Despite being introduced in Generation I, no Pokémon could learn it by leveling up until Generation III. No Pokémon are able to learn Razor Wind in Generation II without the player trading with a Generation I game first. Razor Wind has the lowest index number of all special moves. The Japanese name of the move, Kamaitachi, is a direct reference to the Japanese yōkai of the same name. Kamaitachi is a weasel that is depicted with sharp claws, riding on a gust of wind and cutting people's skin on the legs. Despite Sneasel being based on it, it cannot learn Razor Wind. Razor Wind is one of the two moves with a charging turn that cannot be used in Generation VIII, the other being Sky Drop.

Title: Swords Dance (move)

Swords Dance (Japanese: つるぎのまい Swords Dance) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. TM75 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Swords Dance increases the user's Attack stat by two stages. Swords Dance can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Crabhammer, Crush Claw, Cut, False Swipe, Fury Cutter, and Slash to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Swords Dance, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Swords Dance raises the user's offensive stats for five turns. Swords Dance raises the user's Attack by two stages. This move is affected by Snatch. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Swords Dance could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Swords Dance could be seen as a move used by Boss Aegislash. This buddy move was known as B Swords Dance prior to version 2.38.0. In ZigZag Zangoose, Nicholai called for his Zangoose to use Swords Dance, but it stopped when it sensed Jessie's Seviper. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Battle CD 07 includes a Machamp that knows Swords Dance, a move which Machamp cannot learn. Prior to Generation V, Shedinja is able to know Swords Dance by leveling up if Nincada is allowed to evolve only at level 25, as Ninjask learns this move at this level. Of all status-changing moves, Swords Dance has the most variations, with eight including itself.

Title: Cut (move)

This article is about the move Cut. For the field move, see Cut (Field Move). Cut (Japanese: いあいぎり Iai Cut) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is HM01 in Generations I through VI, and TM93 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Cut is usable in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet but cannot be selected in a battle as no available Pokémon can learn it. However, it can be called by Metronome. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. In certain games, Cut is a field move that requires a specific badge to be used outside of battle: the Cascade Badge, Hive Badge, Stone Badge, Forest Badge, or Bug Badge. In Generations I–VI, and also in the Hidden Moves Pokétch app, Cut can be used to remove cuttable plants, which are obstacles that block the player's way. The trees are restored once the player leaves the current area or resets the game. In this generation, the player can only remove plants by using this move from the party screen. In addition to using this move from the party screen, the player can now remove plants simply by interacting with them and pressing A, which opens up a dialog box asking if the plant should be cut. Cut is no longer usable outside of battle, except from the Hidden Moves Pokétch app in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl (instead of being taught to a Pokémon). In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, small trees can be cut down with the Secret Technique Chop Down instead. Cuttable plants do not appear in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, Ultra Moon, Sword, Shield, Legends: Arceus, Scarlet, and Violet. In Generations I–III, Cut can be used to remove a portion of tall grass. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, there is a sealed cave in Ruin Valley with the word "CUT" written in braille. The player may open it by using Cut on the entrance, which grants access to Dotted Hole. Cut can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Swords Dance was used in the previous turn. In Pokémon Pokopia, Cut is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Scyther in Withered Wasteland. It allows Ditto to cut plants and wooden objects, as well as harvest ripe plants. Cut can be temporarily powered up by consuming any type of bread, allowing Ditto to cut things from a distance and slice even harder objects, such as chains and iron fences. Bill's Farfetch'd was revealed to know Cut on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. In Generation I, if the player saves and exits the game standing on a previously cut tree, once the game is continued, the player will be standing on the tree that was previously cut. The same can be done with Pikachu in Pokémon Yellow. In Celadon Gym in Yellow, the same effect can also happen with Pikachu after certain battles. Cut is not required to complete Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, their remakes, Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, or Pokémon X and Y. The Japanese name of Cut, いあいぎり Iai Cut, refers to iaido, a Japanese martial art. Specifically, it refers to the technique of drawing a blade from its scabbard, cutting down the opponent, then re-sheathing the blade. Cut was the first HM move featured in the animated series.

Title: Gust (move)

This article is about the move Gust. For the field move, see Gust (Field Move). Gust (Japanese: かぜおこし Stir Up Wind) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was a Normal-type move. Gust can hit a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly and Bounce, and if it does, will deal double the damage. Gust is now affected by King's Rock, except in Generation IV. Starting in Generation IV, when used on a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly or Bounce, the power is now doubled instead of the damage being doubled (resulting in virtually the same effect). Starting in Generation V, this also applies to Sky Drop. Gust can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Gust inflicts damage. It can hit enemies in the air due to moves such as Fly or Bounce, and if it does, will deal double the damage. In Pokémon GO, Gust is a Fast Attack that has been available since November 5, 2020. Fantina's Drifblim was revealed to know Gust on the official website, but she was never shown using the move. Gust is the most learned Flying type move through level up. Gust is one of the four moves to have its type changed in Generation II, the others being Karate Chop, Bite, and Sand Attack. They were all Normal-type moves in Generation I. Despite the move's description stating that the wind is whipped up by wings, some wingless Pokémon can learn this move as well. Gust is the only special move with 35 PP, which is the highest of all special moves.

Title: Wing Attack (move)

Wing Attack (Japanese: つばさでうつ Wing Strike) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. Wing Attack inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. It has a power of 35. Wing Attack's power increases to 60. It can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Only in the Japanese version of Pokémon Stadium (the second Japanese game in the series), Wing Attack's description erroneously states that this is a Normal-type move. In Try for the Family Stone!, Mitchell was seen trying to teach his Murkrow Wing Attack, but his attempts were unsuccessful. Wing Attack has the highest PP to power ratio of all moves. This record was previously held by Extrasensory before its PP was reduced in Generation VI.

Title: Whirlwind (move)

Whirlwind redirects here. For the TFG starter set, see Whirlwind (TFG). Whirlwind (Japanese: ふきとばし Blow Away) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM04 in Generation I, and TM094 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. If Whirlwind is successfully used in a wild Pokémon battle by either Pokémon, the battle will automatically end. In a Trainer battle, Whirlwind has no effect. Whirlwind has 85% accuracy and normal priority. Whirlwind can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig. If the user's level is less than the target's level, there is a chance that Whirlwind will fail, between approximately 10% and 25%, depending on the levels of the two Pokémon. The chance of failure typically increases the higher the target's level is than the user's. Specifically, the chance of failure is the following. FailureChance=⌊Leveltarget4⌋Leveltarget+Leveluser+1 When in a Trainer battle, Whirlwind will now force the target to switch with a randomly chosen Pokémon from its Trainer's party. If there is no Pokémon for the target to switch with, Whirlwind will fail. Whirlwind's accuracy is increased to 100% and its priority is decreased to -1. If Whirlwind is used before the opponent can make its move, Whirlwind will fail. Whirlwind can now hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, but can no longer hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig. Whirlwind's chance to fail does not apply to Trainer battles. However, in Trainer battles, Whirlwind will always fail if used before the opponent has made its move. If the player uses Whirlwind against the Red Gyarados or to try escaping from the forced wild Pokémon encounters at Team Rocket HQ, the move will always fail. Whirlwind will fail when used against Pokémon with the Ability Suction Cups or rooted by Ingrain. It no longer fails if it is not used last. It can no longer hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly. The chance of failure if the user's level is less than the target's is now calculated slightly differently. Specifically, for a random integer X between 0 and 255, Whirlwind fails if the following relation is true: The chance of failure can be approximated by the following formula. However, this approximation may diverge moderately from the true probability for low user and target levels. In wild Pokémon battles, Whirlwind will now always fail if the user's level is less than the target's. In Trainer battles, Whirlwind will now succeed if it hits, regardless of either Pokémon's level. Whirlwind is now reflected by Magic Coat and Magic Bounce. If a battle with wild Pokémon ever involves more than one Pokémon on each side of the battle, Whirlwind will fail if used by the player's Pokémon against a wild Pokémon, but if a wild Pokémon uses it against the player, it will force the target to switch with another Pokémon in the Trainer's party, regardless of the target's level. Whirlwind now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Whirlwind can now hit a target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Whirlwind can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Spikes, Stealth Rock or Toxic Spikes was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Whirlwind, the user's Special Defense stat rises by one stage. Whirlwind fails when used on a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon. Whirlwind targets the enemy in the front and blows them away by 10 tiles. If the enemy hits a wall, they will take 5 HP of damage; if they hit another Pokémon, they will both take 5 HP damage. A Pokémon that enters a tile they cannot walk on will be warped away. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Whirlwind could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Whirlwind could be seen as a move used by Boss Pidgeotto and Pidgeot. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Forces the opponent's sync pair to switch out. In The Ninja Poké-Showdown, Ash told his Bulbasaur to use Whirlwind, which it cannot legally learn. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, Ash only told Bulbasaur to "blow away" Aya's Venonat's Stun Spore. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Chaz mentioned that his Venomoth knew Whirlwind. However, it has never been seen using the move. In the Japanese versions of Pokémon Red, Green, and Pokémon Blue, if the player's Pokémon uses Whirlwind on a wild Pokémon with 5 characters in its name, the exclamation mark will overwrite part of the text box. This was fixed in Yellow by adding a line break. Due to a glitch in FireRed, LeafGreen, and Emerald, if a roaming Pokemon ends the battle by using Whirlwind, the game considers it to have been defeated and it will permanently stop appearing. However, as Raikou, Entei, Suicune, Latias and Latios cannot learn Whirlwind, this cannot occur in normal gameplay. This glitch was fixed in the Nintendo Switch releases of FireRed and LeafGreen. The Latin Spanish name of Whirlwind (Torbellino) is the European Spanish name for Whirlpool, and vice versa (Remolino is Whirlwind in European Spanish and Whirlpool in Latin Spanish).

Title: Fly (move)

This article is about the move Fly. For the game mechanic used to instantly travel to previously visited locations, see Flight. For the field move in Pokémon Ranger, see Field Move (Ranger). For the animated short with the Japanese name of "Fly", see Hoopa's Surprise Ring Adventures. Fly (Japanese: そらをとぶ Fly) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. TM76 in Pokémon Sun and Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM14 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. TM94 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. On the turn that Fly is selected, the user will fly up high and become semi-invulnerable, where the only attacks it cannot avoid are Bide and Swift. On the following turn, Fly will inflict damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Fly is selected, the user will be unable to switch out unless Fly is disrupted or fully executed. If Fly is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user flies up high, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Fly (or fail if it cannot). Full paralysis and self-inflicted damage due to confusion will disrupt Fly. Additionally, if the user is fully paralyzed during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, it will not be reset until the user switches out or fully executes Fly. From Pokémon Stadium onward, Fly will allow the user to avoid Bide. Full paralysis will reset the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly. Mirror Move will copy Fly on either of the turns it takes to execute. Pokémon can be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Fly. The user can now be hit by Gust, Thunder, Twister, and Whirlwind during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, and will receive double damage from Gust and Twister. The user may also be hit in the air if it was previously targeted by Lock-On or Mind Reader, and then struck the following turn, unless said move was Magnitude, Earthquake, or Fissure. Swift and Bide no longer hit on their own during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly. Starting in this generation, if a Pokémon flies into the air but the battle ends before it can come down (such as from a wild Pokémon using Teleport or Self-Destruct), the PP was already deducted on the first turn. No additional PP will be deducted when the move hits on the second turn. Due to a glitch in this generation only, when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, the moves Attract, Curse, Foresight, Mean Look, Mimic, Nightmare, Spider Web, and Transform cannot hit targets in the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, and moves cannot lower stats of targets in the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly (status moves such as String Shot will fail, and additional effects of moves such as Bubble will not activate). The user can now also be hit by Sky Uppercut during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly. Magnitude, Earthquake, and Fissure will now hit a Pokémon using Fly as usual when the target is under the effect of Lock-On or Mind Reader. Fly's base power was increased from 70 to 90. It cannot be used if Gravity is in effect, and if Gravity takes effect on the same turn Fly was used, the latter move is canceled. The user is now unable to avoid moves used by Pokémon with the Ability No Guard during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, and unable to avoid moves if it has No Guard. If the user is hit by Gust or Twister during the semi-invulnerable turn, the move's power will be doubled rather than the damage dealt (resulting in virtually the same effect). The user can also be hit with Hurricane, Smack Down, and Thousand Arrows during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly. If Smack Down or Thousand Arrows hits, the user of Fly will be knocked down, cancelling the move. If the user is hit by Gust or Twister during the semi-invulnerable turn, the damage dealt will be doubled rather than the move's power (resulting in virtually the same effect). If a Power Herb is held by the user, Fly can be executed in one turn. Fly can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. The user cannot be targeted while airborne, granting full immunity to attacks until the user lands. Hurricane, Gust, Twister, and Thunder cannot hit a target that is airborne. Fly is used as a field move to instantly travel to previously visited locations. Most possible Fly destinations are primarily cities and towns, but other significant locations can be flown to as well. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, players can fly to any area marked on the PokéNav Plus's Town Map. When the player flies to a route or a landmark, they will land in front of a sign that marks the area if there is one, or an otherwise suitable spot. In addition to the Party menu, players can use Fly through the AreaNav. Starting in Generation VII, Fly is no longer a field move. This function is served by the Poké Ride Charizard Glide in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon; the Secret Technique Sky Dash in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!; the Flying Taxi in Pokémon Sword, Shield, Scarlet, and Violet; and the Pokétch's Hidden Moves app in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. In Generation I, using Fly resets the counting of steps related to how a poisoned Pokémon loses HP in the overworld. Therefore, the poisoned Pokémon will lose 1 HP four steps after the latest use of Fly. Fly gives the user the flying status on the first turn. While the user is in the air, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves (except moves such as Gust, Thunder, Twister and Sky Uppercut). Projectiles will also pass the user as if their tile was empty. On the second turn, the user attacks the enemy in front. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. Due to it being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Fly cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Fly has a base PP of 20, base accuracy of 90%, and the user can move to hit an enemy anywhere in the room. Fly is Charizard's up special. It cloaks itself in fire as it rotates in the air while gaining height, damaging nearby enemies. It acts as a recovery move for returning to the stage. Moltres's Trophy states that it uses Fly when summoned from a Poké Ball. However, this instance of the move is much more similar to the flying action that a bird makes, rather than the actual move Fly. The Smash Bros. DOJO!!, the official website for Super Smash Bros. Brawl states that Mew, Celebi, and Jirachi all use Fly when leaving the screen after being summoned from a Poké Ball, however, of the three, only Mew can learn it in the core series. In Pokémon GO, Fly is a Charged Attack that has been available since July 3, 2020. In co-op battles, the user will stop flying upon using a unity attack. Description prior to Version 2.11.0 (from July 28, 2021): ...If the user is hit by a sync move while flying, it will stop flying. Description prior to Version 2.23.5 (from August 8, 2022): ...If the user is hit by a sync move or max move while flying, it will stop flying. In Pokémon Pokopia, Glide is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Dragonite in Sparkling Skylands. It appears to be based on Fly. It allows Ditto to transform into a Dragonite and glide on the air by pressing R while jumping. Ditto's PP constantly depletes while transformed. In the English dub of Fighting Flyer with Fire, Ash told his Charizard to use Fly. In the Japanese version, he merely told Charizard to take flight. In either case, Charizard was unable to execute the command due to a wing injury. In Blossom's Dream, Blossom told her father's Charizard, Char-ly, to use Fly, but it refused to obey someone other than its own Trainer. Shelly's two Vibrava were revealed to know Fly on the official website, but they were never seen using the move. Courtney, Tabitha, and Blaise's Swellow were revealed to know Fly on the official website, but they have never been seen using the move. Many Pokémon noted for their ability to fly over long distances are unable to learn this move, such as Yanmega, which is easily capable of transporting an adult in flight according to its Pokédex entry from HeartGold. Conversely, Pokémon such as Vullaby can learn it, despite Pokédex entries stating they are incapable of flight. Despite Bug/Flying being the second most common type combination, the only Bug types able to learn Fly are Volcarona, Genesect, and Vikavolt, which are not Flying-types. In Pokémon Colosseum, Charizard and Salamence dive into the ground on the second turn of Fly. When Doduo and Dodrio use Fly in the 3D side-series games, they are shown running midair. The Sightseer who gives out TM76 (Fly) in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon says that although the machine is an HM in Johto because of its rarity, it is "just another TM" in Alola. Although flying Pokémon are commonly shown carrying their Trainers on their backs in the animated series, and many of these Pokémon are capable of learning Fly in the games, the move itself would not be depicted in the animated series until White—Victini and Zekrom and Black—Victini and Reshiram. This makes Fly the most recent HM move to officially debut in the animated series. In Pokémon Stadium only, if a Pokémon that can naturally learn Fly somehow faints during the semi-invulnerable turn of the attack (either due to poison, burn, or the enemy's Swift), it will have a unique aerial fainting animation. This is no longer the case in Pokémon Stadium 2 and later 3D games, where the Pokémon will return to the ground and play their grounded fainting animation if this happens. Despite this, Stadium 2 still added aerial fainting animations for the Generation II Flying types that can't be seen during normal gameplay.

Title: Bind (move)

Bind (Japanese: しめつける Bind) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Bind has an accuracy of 75%. Bind inflicts damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns, and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Although only the first hit can be a critical hit, each turn's hit will deal the same amount of damage. Until Bind ends, the target will be unable to attack, including the starting turn, if the user of Bind moves first. Bind will prevent the target from attacking even if it hits a substitute. While it's inflicting damage, the text "<Pokémon>'s attack continues!" appears. While Bind is ongoing, neither the user nor the target will be able to select moves (selecting "Fight" will cause the user to continue to deal damage and the target to do nothing), but both the user and target can switch out. No message is given on the last turn, so players will not know whether Bind has ended unless they select "Fight" to open the move list. Damage done by Bind's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches out before the turn duration ends, the target will be unable to attack during that turn, since it did not get to select a move. If the target switches out before the turn duration ends, Bind will automatically be used against the incoming Pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move. If at such a time Bind has 0 PP, Bind will still be used, and the current PP of Bind will roll over to 63, applying full PP Ups. Even if Bind misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam. Additionally, if the user of Bind attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn and the use of Bind misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it. Although Bind cannot damage Ghost-type Pokémon, it can still make them unable to attack for its duration. If Bind is successful, the text will say that it "didn't affect" the Ghost-type Pokémon regardless, and Bind's animation will not play on the initial turn (but will during the subsequent turns of its duration). In Pokémon Stadium, the player can select a move during each turn of Bind's duration. If the target switches out before the duration ends, the incoming Pokémon will not be automatically attacked; instead, the user's turn is skipped. Bind will negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful. The target is now able to attack during Bind's duration, and can act normally. Instead, it inflicts 1/16 of the target's maximum HP as damage for two to five turns upon use, in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. The quote "<user> used Bind on <Pokémon>!" will appear. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a trapped Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. Same as before, but if a wild Pokémon uses Bind on the player's Pokémon, the player may escape if the affected Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. However, these do not allow the player to switch the Pokémon out. The text also changes to "<Pokémon> was squeezed by <user>'s Bind!" Bind can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if ViceGrip was used in the previous turn. If the user of Bind is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 5 turns. Also, if an affected Pokémon is holding a Shed Shell, it can switch out. The text changes again, this time to "<Pokémon> was squeezed by <user>!" Bind's accuracy changed from 75% to 85%. Its effect will last either 4 or 5 turns. If the user of Bind is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will be 7 turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/16 of the target's maximum HP to 1/8. The end turn damage of Bind is increased from 1/16 to 1/8 of the target's maximum HP. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the end turn damage of Bind will increase to 1/6 of the target's maximum HP. Bind deals damage, and can inflict the bound status condition (previously Constriction status) on the enemy. With this status condition, the Pokémon cannot move (though it may attack), and cannot switch places with the team leader. The Pokémon loses 5 / 3 HP every two turns and lasts for 4-6 / 6 turns. In Cerulean Blues, Kim told his Tentacruel to use Bind, but it was unable to execute the order before being knocked away by Misty's Gyarados. Moreover, Tentacruel was unable to legitimately learn Bind in Generation III. Despite the function of binding moves being changed from Generation I to Generation II, Bind's description in Pokémon Stadium 2 still states it makes the target unable to move. This is also the case for Fire Spin and Wrap.

Title: Slam (move)

Slam (Japanese: たたきつける Slam) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Slam can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Pound was used in the previous turn. In A Cacturne for the Worse, an unnamed Coordinator's Azurill was commanded to use Slam, but it was stopped before it could execute the move. If Secret Power is used on ordinary terrain in the Generation III games, it will have the animation of Slam. In the Spanish versions of the Generation I games, Slam was mistranslated as Portazo, meaning "door slam". This error was carried over to subsequent releases, until Generation VI in which this was corrected to Atizar.

Title: Vine Whip (move)

Vine Whip (Japanese: つるのムチ Vine Whip) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. Vine Whip inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Its PP is 10, and it has a power of 35. Vine Whip can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. Vine Whip's power changed from 35 to 45 and its PP is now 25. Vine Whip is Ivysaur's Up Special move. It has tether functionality. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Vine Whip is the Power Card belonging to Bulbasaur. Whenever an opponent builds Poké Marts or Pokémon Centers on their properties, the player using Bulbasaur may steal one of the buildings, placing it on a property they own that it can be legally placed on. If the player cannot place it on any of their properties, they may save the building until they are able to do so. Like all other Power Cards, this effect can only be used once per game. Vine Whip is featured in the Generation III wireless mini-game, Pokémon Jump, where it is used by Venusaur.

Title: Stomp (move)

Stomp (Japanese: ふみつけ Trample) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Stomp inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Stomp cannot make a target with a substitute flinch. If Stomp hits a Pokémon that had previously used Minimize, the damage dealt will now be doubled. Stomp can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Leer was used in the previous turn. If Stomp hits a Pokémon that had previously used Minimize, its power will be doubled instead of the damage dealt (resulting in virtually the same effect). If Stomp hits a Pokémon that had previously used Minimize, the damage dealt will be doubled instead of its power (resulting in virtually the same effect). If the target has used Minimize, Stomp now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. A Steenee that knows this move will evolve into Tsareena when leveled up. Stomp deals damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch.

Title: Double Kick (move)

Double Kick (Japanese: にどげり Double Kick) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. Double Kick inflicts damage, hitting the target twice per use. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, the second one will deal the same amount of damage. Double Kick will end immediately if the first strike breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. Each strike now does damage independently, consequently enabling either of them to be critical hits. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Double Kick will now hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate twice. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. Double Kick damages an enemy twice. This move has a reduced base critical hit rate (3% in Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pokémon GO, Double Kick is a Fast Attack that has been available since September 1, 2022. In Curtain Up! Fight the Fights!, Hop told his Wooloo to use Double Kick, but it was defeated before it could execute the move. In File 3: Giovanni, Red told his Jolteon to use Double Kick, but Jolteon was defeated by Giovanni's Rhyhorn's Thunderbolt before it could execute the move. In Valiant Venomoth!, Green told her Nidorina, Nido, to use Double Kick, but when Lorelei's Cloyster blew a Sleep Powder cloud from Sabrina's Venomoth away with Blizzard, it hit Nido instead, causing her to fall asleep and become unable to use Double Kick.

Title: Mega Kick (move)

Mega Kick (Japanese: メガトンキック Megaton Kick) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM05 in Generation I and TM01 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Hitmonlee. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Mega Punch, being the same type and having a similar name. Mega Kick deals damage and has no secondary effect. Mega Kick can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy or Mind Reader was used in the previous turn. Mega Kick is a Water-type move when used by Kris & Totodile/Croconaw/Feraligatr due to their passive skill Water Shift. Mega Kick is a Ground-type move and never misses when used by Sygna Suit Giovanni & Nidoking due to their passive skill Giovanni's Cunning. In the English dub of The Punchy Pokémon, Giant's Hitmonlee is mentioned to be using Mega Kick. This is a dubbing error; in the Japanese version, the move is Jump Kick. Dusknoir can learn this move despite not having any visible legs. This is a holdover from its pre-Evolution, Dusclops, which does have legs.

Title: Jump Kick (move)

Jump Kick (Japanese: とびげり Dropkick) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation IV, it was one of the signature moves of Hitmonlee. Jump Kick does damage with a power of 70. If it misses, the user will take crash damage of 1 HP. If used against a Ghost-type, it always counts as a miss. In Generations I-III, if the user of Jump Kick attacks first and faints itself due to crash damage, the opponent will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. The crash damage is now 1/8 of the damage it would have dealt. The user will take crash damage if Jump Kick is protected against by a move such as Protect, but not due to type immunity (only the type immunity message is displayed). The crash damage is now 1/2 of the damage it would have dealt. Jump Kick can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Mind Reader was used in the previous turn. Jump Kick's base power is increased from 70 to 85. It cannot be used if Gravity is in effect. The user can now crash due to type immunity, and will take crash damage equal to half of the target's max HP in that case. The user will not take crash damage if Jump Kick fails due to there being no remaining targets. Jump Kick's base power is increased from 85 to 100, and its PP is reduced from 25 to 10. The crash damage is now (always) equal to half of the user's max HP, rounded down. Jump Kick deals damage. If the move misses the target, the user receives recoil damage. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, recoil damage is equal to ½ of the damage that would have otherwise been dealt. From Gates to Infinity onwards, the recoil damage is equal to 25% of the user's max HP.

Title: Rolling Kick (move)

Rolling Kick (Japanese: まわしげり Roundhouse Kick) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Hitmonlee and Hitmontop, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Rolling Kick does damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Rolling Kick cannot make a target with a substitute flinch. Rolling Kick is no longer affected by King's Rock. Rolling Kick inflicts damage and may cause the target to flinch.

Title: Sand Attack (move)

Sand Attack (Japanese: すなかけ Sand Attack), formatted as Sand-Attack prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a non-damaging Ground-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was a Normal-type move. Sand Attack decreases the target's accuracy stat by one stage. Sand Attack is a Normal-type move in this generation, but it is not affected by immunities to Normal-type. In the Generation I core series games, when an in-game opponent uses Sand Attack, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Sand Attack is now a Ground-type move, but it is not affected by immunities to the Ground type. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Sand Attack, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Sand Attack can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Mud-Slap to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Mud-Slap or Sandstorm was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an three extra appeal points if Sandstorm was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Groundium Z into Z-Sand Attack, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. Sand Attack lowers the target's accuracy by one stage. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sand Attack could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sand Attack could be seen as a move used by Boss Wimpod. In When Pokémon Worlds Collide!, Paul's two Starly were revealed to know Sand Attack from his Pokédex. In PW11, Diglett was mentioned to use Sand-Attack but it wasn't shown using the move. In PW17, Giovanni's Diglett was mentioned to use Sand-Attack but it wasn't shown using the move. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder Sand Attack is one of four moves to have its type changed in Generation II (the others being Gust, Bite, and Karate Chop; making it the only status move to do so), and one of five status moves to have its type changed between generations at all (the others are Charm, Curse, Moonlight, and Sweet Kiss).

Title: Headbutt (move)

Headbutt (Japanese: ずつき Headbutt) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. TM01 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Headbutt does damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Headbutt became a move which can be used outside of battle, allowing the player to shake small trees, sometimes causing a wild Pokémon to drop out. Depending on the time of day, the Pokémon which falls out may be asleep. Some Pokémon can only be caught by this method (e.g., Pineco, Heracross). Headbutt can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, Headbutt is not a field move. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, Headbutt can again be used on trees in the field. However, now it can be used on all trees, but only some will yield Pokémon; trees that can yield Pokémon will always yield Pokémon when headbutted. Also, Pokémon will not be asleep when they are encountered this way, regardless of the time of day. Furthermore, categories of trees have been abandoned, in favor of unique wild Pokémon for each location. There are also now special trees, which in each area yield a Pokémon not normally encountered by using Headbutt in that area. After the National Pokédex is acquired, non-regional Pokémon from Hoenn or Sinnoh can also be found using this method. Headbutt deals damage and may flinch the target (25% chance in the Rescue Team and Explorers series). Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch. In Pokémon Pokopia, Headbutt is a move that Ditto can use naturally. It allows Ditto to headbutt trees, causing Berries to fall down. In a flashback in In the Pink, Misty tried to teach Togepi Headbutt. In Nice Pryce, Baby!, Pryce told his Dewgong to use Headbutt, but it was hit with a Swift attack before it could hit the opponent. In Pokémon Pokopia, Ditto can naturally use Headbutt while in its human form, even though it has never been capable of learning this move.

Title: Horn Attack (move)

Horn Attack (Japanese: つのでつく Horn Thrust) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Horn Attack deals damage and has no secondary effect. Horn Attack can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Fury Attack and Horn Drill to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Leer was used in the previous turn. In The Water Flowers of Cerulean City, Lily's Goldeen was mentioned to know Horn Attack. However, it has never been seen using it. Horn Attack was the first move that was shown to be used in the animated series. It was used by a Nidorino in the first episode. Omanyte can learn this move in Generation I, despite having no visible horn or tusks. This is likely because its evolved form, Omastar, has spikes on its shell.

Title: Fury Attack (move)

Fury Attack (Japanese: みだれづき Disturbed Stab) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. Fury Attack inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. In this generation only, Fury Attack will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. All strikes now do damage independently, enabling any of them to be critical hits. Fury Attack may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Fury Attack unless it misses. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Fury Attack can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Horn Attack or Peck was used in the previous turn. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 15% base miss chance) is now 39.5. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. Fury Attack inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (1% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end.

Title: Horn Drill (move)

Horn Drill (Japanese: つのドリル Horn Drill) is a Normal-type one-hit knockout move introduced in Generation I. It was TM07 in Generation I. Horn Drill always inflicts exactly 65535 HP damage if it hits. Its accuracy is 30%. Horn Drill will break a substitute if it hits. Unlike other moves that skip the damage formula, Horn Drill does not bypass type immunities. Horn Drill will not affect a target whose current Speed stat is greater than the user's current Speed stat. Horn Drill inflicts damage equal to the target's current HP. The accuracy of Horn Drill is now calculated using the following formula: If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails (Speed no longer has any impact on the success of Horn Drill). If the user is 90 levels or more higher than the target, Horn Drill's accuracy is 100% (even though the formula would produce values over 100% for a difference of 91 or more). This formula means that the accuracy starts at approximately 30% (76256) when the Pokémon have the same level, and grows by approximately 0.78% (2256) for every level higher than the target that the user is. This accuracy is affected by accuracy and evasion stats. In the Generation II core series games only, Horn Drill can be countered by Counter for maximum damage if it misses. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Horn Drill cannot be countered by Counter. Despite having an accuracy of 30% listed, Horn Drill's chance of hitting a Pokémon is instead calculated using the following formula: This formula means that the accuracy starts at 30% when the Pokémon have the same level, and is 1% more likely to hit for every level the user is higher than the target. If the user is at least 70 levels higher than the target, Horn Drill will always hit. If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails. This chance of hitting is not an accuracy: it is not affected by accuracy and evasion stats, nor is it affected by other accuracy modifiers such as Gravity, Wide Lens, and Compound Eyes. Additionally, Horn Drill cannot hit a semi-invulnerable Pokémon. However, effects that guarantee moves to hit (such as No Guard and Lock-On) still affect Horn Drill if the user's level isn't lower than the target's. Horn Drill can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Horn Attack was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Lock-On, Mind Reader and Miracle Eye was used in the prior turn. When used in a Max Raid Battle against a Dynamax Pokémon while it is under the effect of a mysterious barrier, Horn Drill will deplete two bars of the barrier's strength. Otherwise, Horn Drill will always fail against Dynamax Pokémon. Horn Drill defeats the target in one hit. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Horn Drill knocks out the target by dealing "calamitous damage" (Japanese: とてつもない タメージ tremendous damage) which is internally treated as 9999 damage. Additionally, it will fail against Ghost-type Pokémon. Despite the implied need for a horn or horn-like apparatus to use this move, at least two Pokémon that don't have a horn but gain one upon Evolution (Nidorina and Kantonian Ponyta) can learn Horn Drill. Tyrunt and Tyrantrum do not have a horn, yet can still learn the move.

Title: Tackle (move)

This article is about the move Tackle. For the field move, see Tackle (Field Move). Tackle (Japanese: たいあたり Body Blow) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Tackle inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Tackle can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Defense Curl, Harden, or Leer was used in the previous turn. Tackle's power was increased from 35 to 50 and its accuracy from 95% to 100%. This is a Bug-type move when used by Scottie/Bettie & Caterpie/Metapod/ButterfreeEgg due to their passive skill Bug Shift. In When Pokémon Worlds Collide!, Paul's two Starly were revealed to know Tackle by his Pokédex. In Different Strokes for Different Blokes, Paul's Stantler was revealed to know Tackle by his Pokédex. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer In Buddy, Hop mentioned that his Wooloo knows Tackle, but it hasn't been seen using the move. In PW11, Geodude was mentioned to have known Tackle, but it wasn't shown using the move. Pokémon HeartGold SoulSilver: Pokédex Completion Comic In The Secret of Kangaskhan, Blue's Venomoth was revealed to know Tackle by his Pokédex. In Wartortle Wars, Green's Blastoise, Blasty, was revealed to know Tackle as a Wartortle by Red's Pokédex. Green's Squirtle, Blasty, Yellow's Caterpie, Kitty, Ruby's Mudkip, Mumu, Blaine's Rapidash, and Joey's Rattata were revealed to know Tackle on the official website, but they were never shown using the move. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder Unlike other generations, all of the Unova first partner Pokémon are able to learn Tackle. Due to Pound and Scratch being absent from Pokémon Legends: Arceus and Pokémon Legends: Z-A, all Kanto, Johto, Sinnoh, and Kalos first partner Pokémon have also been able to learn Tackle at some point. In the animated series, Tackle is the most common move to be used by Pokémon that cannot learn it in the games. Tackle is the most learned move that isn't taught by TMs, TRs, or Move Tutors. In several games from Generation I onwards, the Pokédex states that Rhyhorn has powerful tackles. However, Rhyhorn was unable to learn Tackle until Generation VIII. This was first said in Rhyhorn's Pokédex entry from Japanese Pokémon Red and Green, although this entry was left untranslated until it was reused in Pokémon FireRed. Rhyhorn's Japanese Pokédex entries correctly use Tackle's Japanese name 「たいあたり」, or its equivalent 「体当た」 in kanji mode.

Title: Body Slam (move)

Body Slam (Japanese: のしかかり Lean On) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Body Slam inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Body Slam can no longer paralyze Electric-type Pokémon, due to them now being immune to paralysis. If the target has used Minimize, Body Slam now deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Body Slam inflicts damage and may paralyze the target. Body Slam is a Fairy-type move when used by Scottie/Bettie & Igglybuff/Jigglypuff/WigglytuffEgg with the passive skill Fairy Shift. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In the English dub of Charizard Chills, Tad told his Poliwrath to prepare to use Body Slam, but the move was disrupted before it could go off. In the Japanese version, Poliwrath attempted to use Counter instead. In the English dub of Pokémon Double Trouble, Luana told her Marowak to use Body Slam. In the original Japanese version, Marowak was told to use Double-Edge instead. In Pruning a Passel of Pals!, an unnamed Coordinator told his Wailmer to use Body Slam, but it was frozen by Dawn's Buneary's Ice Beam before it could execute the move. In Susceptible to Sceptile, Emerald's Sceptile was mentioned to have used Body Slam, but the move was used off-panel. From Generation IV onwards, Secret Power has the animation of Body Slam if used in a building. Body Slam's Chinese name (泰山压顶 Tàishān Yādǐng) is a chengyu (成语 chéngyǔ), a set phrase, usually an idiom or proverb, commonly of four characters. In this case, it literally translates to "bearing down with the overwhelming weight of Mt. Tai", Mt. Tai being a 1500 meter (5000 feet) tall mountain in Shandong.

Title: Wrap (move)

If you were looking for the recurring Team Skull Grunt in the animated series, see Rapp. Wrap (Japanese: まきつく Wrap Around) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Wrap has an accuracy of 85%. Wrap inflicts damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns, and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Although only the first hit can be a critical hit, each turn's hit will deal the same amount of damage. Until Wrap ends, the target will be unable to attack, including the starting turn, if the user of Wrap moves first. Wrap will prevent the target from attacking even if it hits a substitute. While it's inflicting damage, the text "<Pokémon>'s attack continues!" appears. While Wrap is ongoing, neither the user nor the target will be able to select moves (selecting "Fight" will cause the user to continue to deal damage and the target to do nothing), but both the user and target can switch out. No message is given on the last turn, so players will not know whether Wrap has ended unless they select "Fight" to open the move list. Damage done by Wrap's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches out before the turn duration ends, the target will be unable to attack during that turn. If the target switches out before the turn duration ends, the user will automatically use Wrap against the incoming Pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move, with the usual miss chance. If at such a time Wrap has 0 PP, Wrap will still be used, and the current PP of Wrap will roll over to 63, applying full PP Ups. Even if Wrap misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam. Additionally, if the user of Wrap attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn and the use of Wrap misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP Ups will be applied to it. Although Wrap cannot damage Ghost-type Pokémon, it can still make them unable to attack for its duration. If Wrap is successful, the text will say that it "didn't affect" the Ghost-type Pokémon regardless, and Wrap's animation will not play on the initial turn (but will during the subsequent turns of its duration). In Pokémon Stadium, the player can select a move during each turn of Wrap's duration. If the target switches out before the duration ends, the incoming Pokémon will not be automatically attacked; instead, the user's turn is skipped. Wrap will negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful. The target is now able to attack during Wrap's duration, and can act normally. Instead, it inflicts 1/16 of the target's maximum HP as damage for two to five turns upon use, in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. There is now an equal 25% chance that it will attack for 2, 3, 4 or 5 turns. The text "Enemy <Pokémon> was WRAPPED by <user>!" will appear. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a trapped Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. While it's hurting target, the text "Enemy <Pokémon>'s hurt by WRAP!" appears. After it stops, it will say, "Enemy <Pokémon> was released from WRAP!" If a wild Pokémon uses Wrap on the player's Pokémon, the player may escape if the affected Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. However, these do not allow the player to switch the Pokémon out. The text "Wild/Foe <Pokémon> was WRAPPED by <user>!" will appear after successful use. While it's hurting the target, the text "Wild/Foe <Pokémon> is hurt by WRAP!" appears. After it stops, it will say, "The wild/foe <Pokémon> was freed from Wrap!" If the user of Wrap is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 5 turns. Also, if an affected Pokémon is holding a Shed Shell, it can switch out. The text "The wild/foe's <Pokémon> was wrapped by <user>!" will appear after successful use. While it's hurting target, the text "The wild/foe's <Pokémon> is hurt by Wrap!" appears. After it stops, it will say, "The wild/foe's <Pokémon> was freed from Wrap!" The accuracy of Wrap changed from 85% to 90%, and lasts four to five turns. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the end turn damage of Wrap will increase from 1/16 to 1/8 of the target's maximum HP. If the user of Wrap is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will be 7 turns. The end turn damage of Wrap is increased from 1/16 to 1/8 of the target's maximum HP. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the end turn damage of Wrap will increase to 1/6 of the target's maximum HP. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Wrap is a status move which inflicts the Wrapped status on the enemy (and the user gains the Wrap status). Both statuses prevent movement and the Pokémon from taking any actions. A Pokémon that is Wrapped takes 6 HP damage every two turns. The Wrap and Wrapped statuses last for 0-5 turns. Wrap can be linked with another move, but if Wrap is the first move in the link, the second move in the link will not be used. Being a status move, this move is affected by Taunt. From Gates to Infinity, Wrap deals damage and may inflict the Bound status. Pokémon with the Bound status cannot move (but can use moves) and loses 3 HP damage every two turns. The status lasts 6 turns. In the English dub of Playing with Fire, Harrison commanded his Steelix to use Wrap, which it cannot legally learn. In the original Japanese version, Harrison instead commanded Steelix to use Bind. In The Rise of Darkrai, Baron Alberto's Lickilicky knows Wrap, as seen when its Trainer used the move while transformed into Lickilicky. Orm's two Shuckle were revealed to know Wrap on the official web site, but they was never shown using the move. Despite the function of binding moves being changed from Generation I to Generation II, Wrap's description in Pokémon Stadium 2 still states it makes the target unable to move. This is also the case for Bind and Fire Spin.

Title: Take Down (move)

Take Down (Japanese: とっしん Charge) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM09 in Generation I, and is TM001 in Generation IX. Take Down inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ¼ of the damage done to the target. If the user of Take Down attacks first and faints due to recoil damage, the opponent will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. Self-inflicted recoil damage from Take Down from the previous turn can be countered if the opponent does not make a move on the following turn. If Take Down breaks a substitute, the user will take no recoil damage. In Stadium, no recoil damage is taken if Take Down knocks out an opponent. The user now receives recoil damage even if a substitute breaks. Take Down can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy or Harden was used in the previous turn. Take Down deals damage, and the user receives recoil damage. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the user receives recoil damage equal to ⅛ of their maximum HP. From Gates to Infinity, the recoil damage is instead 10% of the user's max HP. In Super Smash Bros., a swarm of Beedrill will fly diagonally across the screen using Take Down when summoned from a Poké Ball. The Beedrill are replaced by Unown in Super Smash Bros. Melee; the Unown can fly across the screen from any direction. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Eevee is a Poké Ball Pokémon that uses Take Down by running back and forth across the stage, throwing itself at fighters. In Pokémon GO, Take Down is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 9, 2018. In the English dub of The Mystery is History, Ritchie commanded his Pupitar, Cruise, to use Take Down, despite Pupitar being unable to learn the move at the time. In the original version, it was commanded to use Headbutt instead. In Silly Scyther, Bugsy told his Heracross to use Take Down, but it was unable to execute the move due to the effects of Encore. In Mewtwo Comes Through, Yellow's Golem, Gravvy, was revealed to know Take Down. Steven's multiple Beldum were revealed to know Take Down on the official website, but they were never shown using the move.

Title: Thrash (move)

Thrash (Japanese: あばれる Violent Struggle) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Thrash inflicts damage for 3-4 turns, has a base power of 90, and 20 PP. PP is deducted only on the turn Thrash is first called. Once called, even if the move misses, the user will only be able to use Thrash, and will not be able to switch out. After Thrash is finished, the user becomes confused, due to fatigue. If the Thrash duration is disrupted (such as by full paralysis or hurting itself due to confusion), it will immediately end. The user will only become confused if Thrash is fully executed, without its duration being disrupted. Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Thrash. If a change in accuracy or evasion affects Thrash's accuracy, the decrease in accuracy will be reapplied on each automatic turn. Its accuracy will return to normal when it is selected again. If Thrash misses due to the 99.6% accuracy bug of 100%-accuracy moves when there are no other accuracy or evasion modifiers in effect, or in case said modifiers cancel each other, its accuracy will be unaffected. If Thrash misses during the turn it is selected, its secondary effects will not activate. In Stadium, after the duration of Thrash ends, there will be a notice that the user becomes confused for some time. In battles with multiple opponents, the user selects itself as the target, but hits an adjacent opponent that is selected at random upon each use of the move. Thrash can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Rage was used in the previous turn. The base power of Thrash is increased to 120 and its PP is reduced to 10. It is disrupted if it is not successful due to missing, sleeping, paralysis, freeze, flinching, a Protecting target, Ghost-type, or Wonder Guard immunity. If a disruption occurs on what would have been the final, confusion-inducing turn of Thrash, the user will still become confused. Thrash deals damage and confuses the user after the move ends. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, the user attacks three times facing in random directions (possibly attacking in the same direction more than once), hitting whatever Pokémon is in front of the user at the time, be it ally or enemy. If the Pokémon gets moved in middle of execution, for example from Vital Throw, it will continue attacking from its new position. From Gates to Infinity onward, Thrash consecutively hits an enemy in front 2-3 times instead. In the Spanish versions of the Generation I games, Thrash was vaguely translated as Golpe, meaning "strike". This was carried over to subsequent releases, until Generation IX in which it was translated as Saña.

Title: Tail Whip (move)

Tail Whip (Japanese: しっぽをふる Tail Wag) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Tail Whip decreases the Defense stat of all adjacent opponents by one stage. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Tail Whip, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Tail Whip can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charm was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Tail Whip, the user's Attack stat rises one stage. Tail Whip lowers the enemy's Defense by one stage. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Tail Whip could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Tail Whip could be seen as a move used by Boss Pikachu, Vulpix and Ponyta. In Wartortle Wars, Green's Blastoise, Blasty, was revealed to know Tail Whip as a Wartortle by Red's Pokédex. Joey's Rattata was revealed to know Tail Whip on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. A conman's Wooper were revealed to know Tail Whip on the official website, but they were never shown using the move. Multiple Pokémon (e.g., Flareon, Marowak and Tauros) have been capable of learning both this move and Leer at the same time in the past, despite them being functionally the same move. With the exception of Morpeko, all of these Pokémon would eventually only learn Tail Whip, even if they only had a very short tail (such as Rhyhorn) or no tail at all (such as Snubbull).

Title: Poison Sting (move)

Poison Sting (Japanese: どくばり Poison Needle) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. Poison Sting does damage and has a 20% chance of poisoning the target. Poison Sting now has a 30% chance to poison the target. Poison Sting deals damage and may leave the target poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.10.0: Has a moderate chance of leaving the target poisoned. In Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie, Poison Sting was used by an unknown Pokémon belonging to Guile Hideout. Green's Nidorina, Nido, was revealed to know Poison Sting on the official web site, but she was never shown using the move.

Title: Twineedle (move)

Twineedle (Japanese: ダブルニードル Double Needle) is a damage-dealing Bug-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Beedrill. Twineedle inflicts damage, hitting the target twice per use. The second strike has a 20% chance of poisoning the target, unless the target is Poison-type. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, the second one will deal the same amount of damage. Twineedle will end immediately if the first strike breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. Each strike now does damage independently, and either of them can be a critical hit. Due to a programming oversight, Twineedle can poison Steel-type Pokémon. Twineedle will now hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. If the first strike breaks a substitute, the second strike can poison the target. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the target to flinch. Twineedle can no longer poison Steel-type Pokémon. Both of Twineedle's strikes now have an independent 20% chance of poisoning the target (producing a 36% chance of poisoning the target overall). If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Twineedle is now affected by King's Rock. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the target to flinch. Twineedle inflicts damage, hitting the target 2 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. Twineedle may also leave the enemy poisoned. The move's critical hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Pokémon faints from the first projectile, the second projectile will be able to hit a new target, and is still executed if a Reviver Seed activates. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Attacks twice in a row. Has a small chance of leaving the target poisoned. In Generation II only, Twineedle is the only move that can poison a Steel-type Pokémon. This is because Steel-type Pokémon are only coded to be immune to Poison-type moves.

Title: Pin Missile (move)

Pin Missile (Japanese: ミサイルばり Missile Needle) is a damage-dealing Bug-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. It was TM07 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Pin Missile inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. In this generation only, Pin Missile will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. Pin Missile has a base power of 14 and an accuracy of 85%. All strikes now do damage independently, consequently enabling any of them to be a critical hit. Pin Missile may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Pin Missile, if it does not miss. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 15% base miss chance) is now 36.9. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor, each strike will activate it. Pin Missile now has a base power of 25 and an accuracy of 95%. Provided that the move does not miss, it now has an average total base power of 79.2. Including the 5% base miss chance, the average total base power is now 73.6. If the target has Stamina, each strike will activate it. The attack hits once and leaves the target with splinters for 4 turns (Strong Style), 2 turns (Agile Style), or 3 turns (otherwise). Pin Missile will always hit 5 times. When used as a Plus Move, it will always hit 6 times. Pin Missile inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (1% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Prior to Gates to Infinity, if a targeted Pokémon faints in middle of the attack, the remaining projectiles will be able to hit a new target. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In The Bicker the Better, Jessie told Dustox to use Pin Missile. This was a dubbing error, as in the original, she was commanded to use Poison Sting. Jolteon was revealed to have used Pin Missile in PW31, but only the move itself was shown. Before Generation VI, Pin Missile was the only move with a base power of 14. It was also one of three moves in the core series games to have a base power that is not a multiple of 5, the other two being Comet Punch and Fury Swipes. All of these moves happen to be multistrike moves.

Title: Leer (move)

Leer (Japanese: にらみつける Glare) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Leer decreases the Defense stat of all adjacent opponents by one stage. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Leer, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Leer can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Bite, Faint Attack, Glare, Horn Attack, Scary Face, Scratch, Stomp, and Tackle to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rage or Scary Face was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Leer, the user's Attack stat rises one stage. Leer lowers the target's Defense by one stage. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Leer could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Leer could be seen as a move used by Boss Natu, Patrat, Lillipup, Pansear, Axew, Rufflet, Vullaby, Pancham, Yungoos, Stufful, and Jangmo-o. Stat decreases and effects applied by these moves apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Defense. This buddy move was known as B Leer prior to version 2.38.0. In the English dubbed version of Playing with Fire!, Ash told his Totodile to use Leer. In the original Japanese version, he told him to use Scary Face instead. Pearl's Chimchar, Chimler, was revealed to know Leer on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Professor Birch's Treecko was revealed to know Leer on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Maizie's Teddiursa was revealed to know Leer on the official website, but she was never shown using the move. Leer's Japanese name can be translated to mean glare, which is the English name of another move.

Title: Bite (move)

Bite (Japanese: かみつく Bite) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was a Normal-type move. Bite inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of causing the target to flinch. Bite is now a Dark-type move and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Due to the change in type it is now a special move in Generations II and III before reverting to a physical move starting in Generation IV. Bite can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Leer or Scary Face was used in the previous turn. Bite inflicts damage and may cause the target to flinch. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition in the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch. In the English dub of The Legend of Thunder!, Hun once commanded his Steelix to use Bite, which it cannot legally learn. In the original Japanese version, Hun instead commanded Steelix to use Crunch, as he does for the rest of the special in both versions. In A Timeless Encounter!, Professor Kukui commanded his Litten to use Bite, but it was defeated by Ash's Torracat's Fire Blast before it could execute the move. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Shocking!! Reunion in the Forest, Casey's Arrokuda, Kilo, was mentioned to know Bite. However, he has never been seen using the move. Red's Eevee, Vee, was revealed to know Bite on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder Bite is one of the four moves to have its type changed in Generation II, the others being Gust, Karate Chop, and Sand Attack. They were all Normal-type moves in Generation I. Bite is the only of these moves that changed to a type introduced in Generation II. Bite is the only move to have its damage category change twice. This is due to the move being Normal-type (and therefore physical) in Generation I, Dark-type (and therefore special) in Generation II and III, and a physical move from Generation IV onward. If Secret Power is used in a cave in Generation III, it will have the same animation as Bite.

Title: Growl (move)

Growl (Japanese: なきごえ Cry) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Growl decreases the Attack stat of all adjacent opponents by one stage. Pokémon are immune to having their Attack decreased if they have any of the following Abilities: Hyper Cutter, Clear Body, White Smoke, or Full Metal Body. Additionally, Pokémon with Soundproof are immune to Growl due to it being a sound-based move. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Growl, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage, and the user can use this move regardless of whether it was affected by Throat Chop or not. Growl can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charm was used in the previous turn. Growl cannot affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Growl, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Growl no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Growl can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Growl targets all enemies the same room and lowers their Attack by one stage. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition and Magic Coat. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Growl could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Growl could be seen as a move used by Boss Charmander, Spearow, Nidoran♀, Meowth, Cubone, Phanpy, Bidoof, Chingling, Litten, and Popplio. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. In Gligar Glide, Gold's Togepi, Togebo, was revealed to know Growl by his Pokédex. Rubys Skitty, Kiki, was revealed to know Growl on the official web site, but she was never shown using the move. Wild Kricketot were revealed to know Growl on the official web site, but they were never shown using the move. Although the sound-based mechanic was not introduced until Generation III, Growl is listed in the move index number near other Generation I sound-based moves like Roar, Sing, and Supersonic.

Title: Roar (move)

Roar (Japanese: ほえる Roar) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. TM05 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. If Roar is successfully used in a wild Pokémon battle by either Pokémon, the battle will automatically end. In a Trainer battle, Roar has no effect. Roar has 100% accuracy and normal priority. Roar can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig. If the user's level is less than the target's level, there is a chance that Roar will fail, between approximately 10% and 25%, depending on the levels of the two Pokémon. The chance of failure typically increases the higher the target's level is than the user's. Specifically, the chance of failure is the following. FailureChance=⌊Leveltarget4⌋Leveltarget+Leveluser+1 When in a Trainer battle, Roar will now force the target to switch with a randomly chosen Pokémon from its Trainer's party. If there is no Pokémon for the target to switch with, Roar will fail. Roar now has a priority of -1. Roar can no longer hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig. Roar's chance to fail does not apply to Trainer battles. However, in Trainer battles, Roar will always fail if used before the opponent has made its move. If the player uses Roar against the Red Gyarados or to try escaping from the forced wild Pokémon encounters at Team Rocket HQ, the move will always fail. Roar is now a sound-based move. Roar fails when used against Pokémon with Soundproof (due to being a sound-based move) or against a Pokémon with Suction Cups or rooted by Ingrain. It no longer fails if it is not used last. The chance of failure if the user's level is less than the target's is now calculated slightly differently. Specifically, for a random integer X between 0 and 255, Roar fails if the following relation is true: The chance of failure can be approximated by the following formula. However, this approximation may diverge moderately from the true probability for low user and target levels. In wild Pokémon battles, Roar will now always fail if the user's level is less than the target's. In Trainer battles, Roar will now succeed if it hits, regardless of either Pokémon's level. Roar is now reflected by Magic Coat and Magic Bounce. If a battle with wild Pokémon ever involves more than one Pokémon on each side of the battle, Roar will fail if used by the player's Pokémon against a wild Pokémon, but if a wild Pokémon uses it against the player, it will force the target to switch with another Pokémon in the Trainer's party, regardless of the target's level. Roar now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move (such as Dig or Fly). Roar can now hit a target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Roar can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if any of the moves Spikes, Stealth Rock, or Toxic Spikes was used in the prior turn. If used by the player's Pokémon in an SOS Battle, Roar will fail. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Roar, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Roar. Roar fails when used on a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon. Roar targets the enemy in the front and blows them away by 10 tiles. If the enemy hits a wall, they will take 5 HP of damage; if they hit another Pokémon, they will both take 5 HP damage. A Pokémon that enters a tile they cannot walk on will be warped away. This move is affected by Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, the move is blocked by Soundproof. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Roar could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Roar could be seen as a move used by Boss Growlithe and Stoutland. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Forces the opponent's sync pair to switch out. Blaine's Growlithe was revealed to know Roar on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Although the sound-based move mechanic was introduced in Generation III, Roar is listed in move index number near other Generation I sound-based moves: Growl, Sing, and Supersonic. In FireRed and LeafGreen, if Roar is used by a roaming Pokémon, a glitch will cause the Pokémon to disappear from the game altogether. In practice, this affects Raikou if the player's first partner Pokémon was Squirtle and Entei if the first partner Pokémon was Bulbasaur. (Suicune is unaffected because it does not know Roar when found as a roaming Pokémon) This glitch is also present in Emerald, but cannot be seen in normal gameplay because the Eon duo can only learn Roar via TM. This glitch was fixed in the Nintendo Switch re-release of FireRed and LeafGreen.

Title: Sing (move)

Sing redirects here. For the Pokémon Music Collective song, see Sing (song). Sing (Japanese: うたう Sing) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM111 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Pokémon with Insomnia, Vital Spirit, Shields Down (with the shield active), or Comatose as their Ability are immune to sleep. Pokémon with Soundproof (due to it being a sound-based move) are also immune to Sing. In the handheld games only, Sing can affect a target behind a substitute. Sing can no longer affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Sing, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Sing can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Perish Song and Refresh to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Sing, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Sing. Sing can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Sing puts the enemy to sleep. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. Sing is Jigglypuff's up special. The move puts all ground-bound users near Jigglypuff to sleep, and does not affect players in the air. The more damage the opponent has taken, the longer they sleep. Unlike most up specials, Sing does not act as a recovery move. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sing could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sing could be seen as a move used by Boss Igglybuff. Sing is a Psychic-type move when used by Rosa (Champion) & Meloetta due to their passive skill Psychic Performance. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Sing is the Power Card belonging to Jigglypuff. Once per game, at the end of their turn, the player using Jigglypuff may immediately take another turn, ostensibly by making every other player fall asleep. In Pokémon Yellow, there is a Trainer in the Pewter City Pokémon Center whose Jigglypuff puts the player's Pikachu to sleep after singing. Although the player's Pikachu will not follow them until it is talked to or until the player exits the Pokémon Center, Pikachu will not be inflicted with the sleep status at any point. Although sound-based moves were not flagged as such until Generation III, Sing's move index number falls near other Generation I sound-based moves: Growl, Roar, and Supersonic. Sing is one of a few moves with its accuracy being different between the core series (55%) and Pokémon Masters EX (45%).

Title: Supersonic (move)

Supersonic (Japanese: ちょうおんぱ Ultrasound) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Supersonic causes the target to become confused. Supersonic fails if the target is already confused or has Own Tempo. Supersonic cannot affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. Supersonic can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Supersonic, the user's Speed rises one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Supersonic. Supersonic targets the enemy in front and confuses them. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Supersonic could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Supersonic could be seen as a move used by Boss Zubat, Golbat, Venonat, Ledyba, and Loudred. In The Whistle Stop, Arielle's six Ledyba were mentioned to know Supersonic. In Cilan Takes Flight!, Skyla's Swoobat was shown to know Supersonic through Skyla's imaginary "Air Battle". Although sound-based moves were not flagged as such until Generation III, Supersonic's move index number falls near other Generation I sound-based moves: Growl, Roar, and Sing.

Title: Sonic Boom (move)

Sonic Boom (Japanese: ソニックブーム Sonic Boom), formatted as SonicBoom prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Sonic Boom always inflicts exactly 20 damage if it hits. It has no secondary effects and does not take weaknesses or resistances into account. Sonic Boom is not affected by type immunities, so it can hit Ghost-type Pokémon. Sonic Boom is now affected by type immunities, so it cannot hit Ghost-type Pokémon normally. In Generation II only, its base power is displayed as 20 instead of —. Sonic Boom deals a fixed amount of damage varying with each game. In the Rescue Team series, Sonic Boom does 55 HP damage. From the Explorers series onwards, the move does 20 HP damage instead. NOTE: The move's animation in Korean Generation II is the same as the Japanese one. In the Japanese and Korean versions of Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, SonicBoom's animation is a shock wave hitting the opponent. In the Western localizations, Sonic Boom uses the Gust animation (a tornado hitting the opponent). In Little Cup and Little Battle, Sonic Boom is banned due to low level Pokémon having low HP. Despite its name, Sonic Boom is not considered a sound-based move. This move's animation in the core series games resembles the move performed by the Street Fighter character Guile with the same name, Sonic Boom.

Title: Disable (move)

Disable (Japanese: かなしばり Temporary Binding) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I . The Ability Cursed Body functions similarly to Disable. Disable temporarily prevents the target from using a specific move. The affected Pokémon will use Struggle if it has no other usable moves with PP remaining besides the disabled move. For instance, it will use Struggle if it is forced to use a single move because of Encore or choice items but that move is disabled. The affected Pokémon can still use the disabled move as a result of Sleep Talk, Metronome, or Mirror Move. An ally Pokémon's Assist can also call the disabled move. Disable fails if one of the target's moves is already disabled. Disable does not affect Pokémon under the protection of Aroma Veil. Disable's effect ends after a number of turns that varies by generation, or when the Pokémon is switched out, faints, or the battle ends. In Generation I and II, the turns are only counted if the affected Pokémon attempts to use a move. Turns spent flinching, fast asleep, frozen solid, recharging, or bound will not count towards the Disable duration length. From Generation III onwards, all turns are counted regardless of attempting to use a move or not. Disable's effect cannot be transferred via Baton Pass. The disabled move is randomly selected among the target's moves whose current PP is greater than 0. Disable fails if the target has no PP for any of its moves. In this generation, Disable's effect lasts for 0 to 7 turns. While the move is disabled, a message of "disabled!" will appear in place of the disabled move's PP, and the target will be unable to use the move until the round after Disable wears off (attempting to select the move will just result in a notice that the move is disabled). If the target does manage to select the move (such as if it knows the move twice because of Mimic, or if the user is faster than the target and disables the attack that the target was going to use during that round) and attempts to execute it before the disable duration is over, it will only result in a wasted turn and a message that the move is disabled. Since the check to see if a move is disabled happens after the duration reduction, it is possible to disable the move the target was about to use for only 0 turns and as a result have Disable end immediately, still allowing the target to use said move during that round. Even if unsuccessful (for any reason), using Disable against a Pokémon using Rage will cause its rage to build. Pokémon currently locked in to using Thrash, Petal Dance, or Rage will be unable to attack until Disable wears off. The Thrash/Petal Dance counter does not reduce during this time, and will continue as usual once Disable wears off. If an opponent is currently charging up a move (i.e., Razor Wind, Skull Bash, Sky Attack, or SolarBeam) and the move is disabled before completion, the move will be unsuccessful, and the charging status reset. However, if the Disable counter was set to 0 turns, the effect of Disable will end before the opponent's second turn and it will be able to fully execute the move as normal. In this generation, if a Pokémon levels up in battle and replaces the disabled move with a new move, the new move will be disabled in its place. In Pokémon Stadium, Disable will cause a Pokémon's rage to build only if successful. The disabled move's PP is not replaced with a "disabled!" message, though attempting to select the move will still result in a notice that the move is disabled. Disable now disables the last move that the target used. It fails if the target has not used a move yet, or if the last move it used was Struggle. If the target is currently locked in to using a consecutively executed move; and the move is disabled before completion, the move will be disrupted. If the target has already acted that turn before the move is disabled, it will still be locked into the move and attempt to use it on the following turn, and the move will be unsuccessful. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Disable, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. If the last move the target used was a Max Move, Disable will fail. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Disable inflicts paralysis on the enemy. From Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky, the move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity onwards, Disable seals the move that its target most recently used on the floor. Mewtwo uses Disable as its down special move. Rather than disabling a move, Disable stuns the opponent, leaving them vulnerable for a short period of time. The move only works if the opponent is making eye contact with Mewtwo. Also, the opponent has to be standing on the ground, or they take weak knockback instead. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Disable could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Disable could be seen as a move used by Boss Kadabra and Slowbro. In PW18, Slowpoke was revealed to have known Disable, but it was not shown using it. In The Secret of Kangaskhan, Blue's Venomoth was revealed to know Disable by his Pokédex.

Title: Acid (move)

Acid (Japanese: ようかいえき Corrosive Liquid) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. Acid inflicts damage and has a 33.2% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 24.9%). Acid now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is still an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 7.5%). This does not apply when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, nor in the Battle Tower. Acid's effect no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Acid now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage instead. In Triple Battles, Acid only targets adjacent opponents. Acid deals damage and lowers the target's Sp. Defense by one stage (Defense stat in Red and Blue Rescue Team). This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition the Rescue Team and Explorers series. •Description of addition effect(s) prior to Version 2.10.0: Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. Acid, as a Poison-type move, normally has no effect on Steel-type Pokémon, despite the fact that real-life acids react very strongly with most metals.

Title: Ember (move)

Ember redirects here. For the location in the Sevii Islands, see Mt. Ember. Ember (Japanese: ひのこ Sparks) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation I. Ember deals damage and has a 10% chance of burning the target. Ember can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Ember deals damage and may leave the target with a burn. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. In the English dub of Take the Lombre Home, a wild Solrock was mentioned to use Ember, which it is incapable of learning legitimately. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, the move was Fire Spin. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Fast-Thinking Froakie, Y told her Fletchling, Fletchy, to use Ember, but the move was never seen being executed. At the time, Fletchling was unable to learn Ember before evolving into Fletchinder. In A Photoshoot and the Abandoned Thrifty Megamart, Sun's Torracat, Dollar, was confirmed to know Ember through his use of Inferno Overdrive. However, he has never been seen using it. Green's Moltres, Blaine's Growlithe, The Masked Man's Houndour, and Courtney's Ninetales were revealed to know Ember on the official web site, but they were never shown using the move. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder Pokémon HeartGold SoulSilver: Pokédex Completion Comic In the Latin American dub of the original series, Ember was called Ámbar, which means amber, not ember. In Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire, Ember was incorrectly called Sorpresa, which is the Spanish name for Fake Out.

Title: Flamethrower (move)

Flamethrower redirects here. For the TFG starter set, see Flamethrower (TFG). Flamethrower (Japanese: かえんほうしゃ Flamethrower) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation I. TM35 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM37 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Flamethrower does damage and has a 10% chance of burning the target. Flamethrower can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Flamethrower deals damage, and may leave the target with a burn. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Flamethrower has a base PP of 20, base accuracy of 90%, and requires a turn to charge before executing the move. In the original Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee, Charizard will use Flamethrower side-to-side when sent out of a Poké Ball. Since becoming playable in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Flamethrower is Charizard's Neutral Special move. The direction of the flame can be slightly tilted up and down, and its power and range weaken progressively with extended use. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Flamethrower is the Power Card belonging to Charmander. At any time, the player using Charmander may take away a property belonging to a player and return it to the bank. If the property had Poké Marts or a Pokémon Center on it, the player whom the property formerly belonged to sells them to the bank for half the cost of building them. Like all other Power Cards, this effect may only be used once per game. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In A Tale of Ninetales, Red commanded Blue's Charmeleon to use Flamethrower, but due to Charmeleon not respecting Red, he ignored the command. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, Noland told a Mawile he was renting from the Battle Factory to use Flamethrower, but he was unable to use the move due to the effects of a Choice Band placed on him by Emerald's rental Linoone's Trick. In Regeneration!! The Power of the Sun and the Moon!, Plumeria told her Salazzle to use Flamethrower, but she was paralyzed by Lillie's Cutiefly's Stun Spore and was unable to execute the move. Pocket Monsters Diamond and Pearl: Regigigas Major Capture Operation!! Pokémon HeartGold SoulSilver: Pokédex Completion Comic

Title: Mist (move)

Mist (Japanese: しろいきり White Mist) is a non-damaging Ice-type move introduced in Generation I. Mist protects the user from having its stats decreased by opponents' status moves until the user switches out. Damaging moves with additional effects that lower the target's stats, such as Acid or Psychic, can still decrease the Pokémon's stats. Mist does not remove any stat stage changes already in effect, and it does not prevent the user from lowering their own stats. The effect of Mist can be removed by Haze. Mist will fail if it is already under effect. Mist does not stack with the effect of Guard Spec. Mist protects the user from having its stats decreased by opponents until the user switches out. It now also applies to damaging moves. Haze can no longer remove the effect of Mist. The effect can be passed with Baton Pass. Mist now creates a Mist effect on the user's side of the field that lasts for five turns. All Pokémon on the user's side of the field are protected while Mist is active, including Pokémon switched in after it was created. It is removed if a Pokémon on that side of the field is hit by Defog. While Mist is in effect, other Pokémon (including allies) cannot lower the stats of Pokémon protected by Mist using either moves or Abilities (e.g. Intimidate). However, it does not prevent Pokémon lowering their own stats. If powered up by an Icium Z into Z-Mist, the user regains all of its HP. Mist gives the user the Mist status condition, which prevents other Pokémon from lowering user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, evasiveness and accuracy (including stat multipliers from Charm, Aurora Beam, Memento and Screech in the Rescue Team and Explorers series). This status condition lasts for 11-14 / 21 turns. Defog will also end the status early if used by an enemy in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series. Mist displays an animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution. Guard Spec. has the same effect as Mist, even displaying the same "the ally was shrouded in mist" text. In Pokémon Yellow, Vaporeon is programmed to learn both Haze and Mist at level 42; however, a bug prevents a Pokémon from learning two moves at the same level, so Vaporeon cannot learn Mist in Yellow outside of Pokémon Day Care. It appears to be a stat-protecting counterpart to Haze. They have the same type, PP, and Z-Move effect. Moreover, their Japanese names are very similar. They are also usually learned at the same level.

Title: Water Gun (move)

Water Gun (Japanese: みずでっぽう Water Gun) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM12 in Generation I. Water Gun inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Water Gun can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Mud Sport, Rain Dance, or Water Sport was used in the previous turn. Water Gun is Squirtle's Neutral Special move. It charges up water and then squirts it at the opponent. It pushes foes away but does not deal damage. In Pokémon Pokopia, Water Gun is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Squirtle in Withered Wasteland. It allows Ditto to spray water and revitalize dried dirt and withered plants, as well as put out fires. It can be temporarily powered up by consuming soups, which allows Ditto to charge the move up to cover a wider surface. In Shapes of Things to Come!, Paul's Azumarill was commanded to use Water Gun, but it was defeated before it could execute the move. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Wartortle Wars, Green's Wartortle, Blasty, was revealed to know Water Gun by Red's Pokédex. Yellow's Seadra was revealed to know Water Gun on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. The glitch Pokémon MissingNo. is able to learn two copies of this move at the same time. Water Gun was the first move shown to be used in the Pokémon Adventures manga.

Title: Hydro Pump (move)

Hydro Pump (Japanese: ハイドロポンプ Hydro Pump) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. Hydro Pump inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Hydro Pump can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. When the move is used by Blastoise, two smaller streams of water are fired instead of one large stream. When used by a gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Hydro Pump has a base PP of 20, base accuracy of 90%, and requires a turn to charge before unleashing the move. In Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Hydro Pump pierces through enemies. When used by a gigantic Pokémon, it pierces through walls as well. This buddy move was known as B Hydro Pump prior to version 2.38.0. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is trapped. Unlike some sync moves, this attack could not be upgraded to 6★ EX since its release date (of April 30, 2020) until 263 days later (on January 18, 2021). Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when none of the target's stats are raised. In Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee, Blastoise, a Poké Ball Pokémon, uses Hydro Pump to damage and push away opposing fighters. There are multiple blasts and they can not be reflected. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Blastoise is replaced with Kyogre; however, Kyogre's water blasts do not damage opponents. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Squirtle uses Hydro Pump as part of Pokémon Trainer's Final Smash, Triple Finish. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Hydro Pump appears as Greninja's up special move. Greninja propels itself using two Hydro Pumps, which can also push opponents back. Since there are two Hydro Pumps, Greninja can move in two different directions if two directions are inputted. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Hydro Pump is the Power Card belonging to Squirtle. Once per game, the player using Squirtle may remove the Poké Marts or Pokémon Center on a specific property. The player those buildings belonged to receives half the price of building them from the bank. Yellow's Omanyte, Omny, was revealed to know Hydro Pump on the official website, but he has never been shown using the move. Ghetsis's Seismitoad was revealed to know Hydro Pump on the official website, but it has never been shown using the move. Dawn's Piplup attempted to use Hydro Pump in PDP09, but failed to use it. Black told Gyarados to use Hydro Pump in A Spectacular Battle To Save Ampharos!! but Jasmine's Steelix finished it off before it got to use the move. The move's name is incorrectly formatted as Hydropump in several Kids' WB! promos. In 3D games before Pokémon X and Y, when Blastoise uses this move, two streams are fired from its cannons, whereas every other Pokémon only has one stream. Starting in Pokémon X and Y, Blastoise no longer had a unique animation for this move. However, the animation was brought back when Blastoise returned in The Indigo Disk. Since Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the move has the same sound effect as it originally did in Generation I. The way Hydro Pump is portrayed when used by Ash's Squirtle in Pokémon the Series is a reference to Gamera's spinning flight. This motion was also utilized for Blastoise's Rapid Spin in Pokémon UNITE and Pokkén Tournament DX.

Title: Surf (move)

Surf (Japanese: なみのり Surfing) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. TM94 in Pokémon Sun and Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM47 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. TM95 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Surf can hit during the target's semi-invulnerable turn of Dive, dealing twice the damage in all generations except in Generation IV, where the power is doubled instead (resulting in virtually the same effect). If a Cramorant with Gulp Missile uses Surf (or Dive), it catches prey and changes forms, unless it already caught prey or is Dynamaxed. In a Double Battle, Surf hits both opposing Pokémon. Surf can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Dive to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Dive or Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. In a Double or Triple Battle, Surf now hits all adjacent Pokémon, including allies. Surf's power has been reduced from 95 to 90. Surf will also destroy stalagmites found in the background of battles. In all core series games up to Generation VI and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Surf is a field move; it can be used outside of battle to travel over bodies of water. In Generation I, the only way to use it is by selecting this move on the party screen if the player is standing on land while facing a water tile. From Generation II onwards, it is also possible to use it by simply pressing A to interact with the water tile. A surfing player can resume walking by simply moving onto land. Alternatively, the surfing player can face a land tile and use Surf again from the party screen. When surfing, Pokémon Trainers and wild Pokémon can be encountered (though only specific places contain Pokémon found via surfing in Generation I). Waterfall, Whirlpool, and Dive may only be used outside of battle when the player is surfing. Since Generation III, the player is also able to fish for Pokémon while surfing. Surf is required to complete almost all games where it is usable outside of battle, with the exception of Pokémon Black and White. This move is needed to reach some cities, towns, and ultimately the Pokémon League where the Elite Four reside. In each game, Surf has a music theme which replaces the overworld music when used outside of battle. In certain games, Surf requires a specific badge to use outside of battle; the Soul Badge, Fog Badge, Balance Badge, Relic Badge, Fen Badge, or Rumble Badge. The speed of Surfing has varied back and forth through games: In Generations I and II, and in Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the speed is the same as walking. In Generation III, and from Pokémon Platinum onwards, the speed is the same as running. In Generation VI, surfing on Kyogre is faster than usual, and surfing on Sharpedo is twice as fast as usual. When Surf is used outside of battle, the surfing Pokémon is controlled by the player. A generic aquatic Pokémon shape is used for most or all Pokémon in a given game. In Generations I and II, the player character is not seen in the surfing sprite; only the Pokémon is seen. Starting in Generation III, the player character is visibly riding the surfing Pokémon as well. In Generation I, the surfing sprite used for almost all Pokémon resembles Seel and Dewgong (it is also the party icon for fifteen Water Pokémon species). In Generation II, most surfing Pokémon appear as Lapras's party icon, sharing the same color palette as the player (red if the player is male or blue if the player is female). In Pokémon Yellow, Gold, Silver, and Crystal, if Pikachu uses Surf outside of battle, the sprite is a surfing Pikachu. If a Pichu evolves into Pikachu while surfing, or a Pikachu into Raichu, the surfing sprite remains the same until the next time that this Pokémon uses Surf. In Generation VI, surfing on Lapras specifically will show the player riding on Lapras instead of the usual generic shape. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Kyogre, Wailmer, and Sharpedo all have their own surfing models; additionally, Kyogre moves faster and has a larger hitbox, while Sharpedo moves twice as fast as normal but prevents fishing. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, when Surf is used via the Hidden Moves app, the player will be shown riding a Bibarel. In several games, there are water currents where the surfing player is forced to go in a certain direction. They are found in the Seafoam Islands, Hoenn routes 132, 133, and 134, as well as in Unova Route 17. In several games, there is shallow water and puddles where the player walks instead of surfing. For instance, shallow water is found in the Shoal Cave, and some puddles are found in Hoenn Route 120. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, there are some fast currents at the Sevii Islands where the player is unable to use Surf. In Generation I, at the exact moment when the player uses Surf from the party menu (going from land to water, or from water to land): A Pokémon deposited in the Pokémon Day Care does not gain experience. This does not count in the process of a poisoned Pokémon losing HP every four steps. The remaining number of steps of Repel, Super Repel, and Max Repel is not affected. However, if the player goes directly from water to land, this counts as a regular step. In Generation I, due to a glitch, if the player saves at the Cycling Road and then creates a new game, it will not be possible to use Surf outside of battle (or use the Bicycle) in the new game until the player does any of these things: blacks out (either in battle or the overworld), uses Dig, Teleport, or Fly outside of battle, uses an Escape Rope, or enters and leaves the Cycling Road. From Generation VII onwards, Surf is no longer a field move. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, its functions are given to the Ride Pokémon Lapras and Sharpedo. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the player can use Secret Technique Sea Skim instead. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the player can travel across water after getting their Rotom Bike upgraded. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Surf is usable in the field again, but now it is accessed via the Pokétch rather than a party Pokémon. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the player's Koraidon or Miraidon can travel across water in Swimming Build or Aquatic Mode, respectively. Surf inflicts damage. It will deal double damage to those in middle of using Dive. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Piplup creates a wave and then surfs on it, pushing any players it hits. Anyone caught in it will be pushed until Piplup disappears, or pushes the character off the stage. Piplup will keep using Surf even when off the stage. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Oshawott uses the move with a similar effect. In Pokémon GO, Surf is a Charged Attack that has been available since December 8, 2017. This buddy move was known as B Surf prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon Pokopia, Surf is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Lapras in Bleak Beach. It allows Ditto to transform into a Lapras and freely cross bodies of water. Ditto's PP constantly depletes while transformed. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Milotic was revealed to know Surf by Emerald's Pokédex. Lance's two Dragonair were revealed to know Surf on the official website, but they were never shown using the move. Some of the Pokémon that can learn Surf, like Barboach, appear to lack the physique required to transport a human being at sea. Junichi Masuda revealed in an interview that Surf is his favorite move. Surf and Fly are the only HM moves that become special moves on certain Pokémon, both on Pikachu. However, since Generation VIII, Pikachu can learn this move via TM/TR, so it is no longer a special move. In Generation VI, Surf and Fly are tied for having the highest base power of all HM moves. Prior to Generation VI, Surf had the highest base power. If Secret Power is used in the ocean in Generation III, it will have the animation of Surf. There is an unused item allowing players to cross water, identical to Surf in Red, Blue, and Yellow. Muddy Water has the same animation as Surf, except that the water is brown rather than blue. In the Stadium series, Colosseum, XD, and Battle Revolution, when Pikachu uses Surf, a surfboard appears underneath it, and when Raichu uses Surf, it surfs on its tail. This does not occur in any core series games. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, a glitch causes the game to freeze if the player is surfing on a Wailmer and it evolves while the player is fishing. When using this move outside of battle, the text will always say "The water is a deep blue", even in cases where the water is not blue, such as the turquoise water at Unova's Village Bridge.

Title: Ice Beam (move)

Ice Beam (Japanese: れいとうビーム Freezing Beam) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation I. TM13 in Generation I, from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. TM55 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Ice Beam inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of freezing the target. Ice Beam inflicts damage and may leave the target frozen. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Ice Beam has a base PP of 20 and a base accuracy of 90% and requires a turn to charge up. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target frozen. This buddy move was known as B Ice Beam prior to version 2.38.0. In the English dub of The Mandrin Island Miss Match, Prima's Jynx's Ice Punch is erroneously referred to as Ice Beam. In Lapras Lazily, Evan's Lapras was revealed to know Ice Beam by Blue's Pokédex . In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Crystal's Starmie and Lucy's Milotic were revealed to know Ice Beam by Emerald's Pokédex. Mitsumi mentioned that her Glaceon used Ice Beam in A New Battle Begins!, but the move was executed off-panel. Though Ice Beam freezes its targets very often in the animated series, it has a very low chance of freezing the opponent in the games (10%). Every Ice-type Pokémon can learn this move except for Snom, Chien-Pao, and Frost Rotom.

Title: Blizzard (move)

Blizzard redirects here. For the weather condition, see Hail (weather condition). Blizzard (Japanese: ふぶき Blizzard) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation I. TM14 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM51 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Blizzard does damage and has a 10% chance of freezing the target. It has an accuracy of 90% in Generation I. In the Japanese versions of the Generation I core series games, Blizzard had a 30% chance of freezing. The chance was lowered to 10% for Pokémon Yellow's Colosseum 2, the Stadium games, and all international Generation I games. Blizzard will hit both opponents in a Double Battle. Blizzard can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Hail or Powder Snow was used in the previous turn. When used during hail, Blizzard bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, due to a glitch, when used in hail, it has a 30% chance to hit a target that has used Protect or Detect; this was fixed in Pokémon Platinum onward. In Triple Battles, Blizzard will only hit opposing adjacent Pokémon. Blizzard's power was lowered from 120 to 110. In Horde Encounters, it will target all opponents. Blizzard will also knock down Berries growing on Berry trees found in the background of battles. Blizzard can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Hail was used in the prior turn. Like all other moves in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Blizzard only hits one target. When used during snow, Blizzard bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Blizzard is considered a wind move, and will activate Wind Power or Wind Rider if a Pokémon with that Ability is hit with it. Blizzard functions similarly to Thunder and Hurricane (coincidentally all moves that have 70% accuracy in the turn-based games). Upon the wind-up completing a small, snowy wind effect appears underneath the target's current location, which intensifies into the actual blizzard to deal damage after a delay. Blizzard deals damage and may freeze the target. The move will never miss in Hail. Since Explorers of Time and Darkness, the move targets all enemies in the same room. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Blizzard has a base PP of 20 and base accuracy of 90%. Eusine & Suicune's passive skill Piercing Gaze and Red (Champion) & Articuno's passive skill Journey from Pallet make their uses of this move never miss. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Never misses during a hailstorm. Has a moderate chance of leaving the target frozen. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is frozen. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until December 25, 2023, which is 1580 days after its release date (on August 29, 2019). The English manual for Pokémon Yellow mentions that "Blizzard's probability of freezing changes by 10%" when used in Colosseum 2. This is actually a mistranslation of something that only occurs in the Japanese version. In the Japanese Generation I handheld games, Blizzard has a 30% chance of freezing its target, but in Pokémon Yellow's Colosseum 2 this is reduced to 10%; in international releases, Blizzard always has a 10% chance of freezing its target. Save for Snom, every Ice-type is capable of learning Blizzard.

Title: Psybeam (move)

Psybeam (Japanese: サイケこうせん Psyche Beam) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM016 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Psybeam does damage and has a 10% chance of confusing the target. Psybeam can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. Psybeam inflicts damage and may leave the target confused. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target confused. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Black's Musharna, Musha, was revealed to know Psybeam on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. In Generation VI and Generation VII, Psybeam uses an upgraded version of its original sound effect from Generations I and II.

Title: Bubble Beam (move)

Bubble Beam (Japanese: バブルこうせん Bubble Beam), formatted as BubbleBeam prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM11 in Generation I. BubbleBeam does damage and has a 33.2% chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 24.9%). BubbleBeam now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is still an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 7.5%). This does not apply when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, nor in the Battle Tower. Bubble Beam's effect no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Bubble Beam can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Bubble Beam deals damage, and may lower the target's Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Speed. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The more the user's Sp. Def is raised, the greater the power of this move. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until March 29, 2021, which is 578 days after its release date (on August 29, 2019). Description of 6★-EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents." In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky - Beyond Time & Darkness, Corphish of Wigglytuff's Guild mentioned that he was capable of using Bubble Beam, but he was never shown using the move. In the dubbed version of Enter The Dragonite, Ash commanded his Squirtle to use Bubble. In the original version, it was commanded to use Bubble Beam instead. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom If Secret Power is used on a pond in Generation III, it will have the animation of Bubble Beam.

Title: Aurora Beam (move)

Aurora Beam (Japanese: オーロラビーム Aurora Beam) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation I. Aurora Beam does damage and has an 85/256 (~33.2%) chance of lowering the target's Attack stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 24.9%). Aurora Beam now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Attack stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is still an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 7.5%). This does not apply when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, nor in the Battle Tower. Aurora Beam's effect no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Aurora Beam deals damage and may reduce the target's Attack. This cuts the Attack stat by ½, stacking up to 1/128, with this reduction being separate from stat stages. This characteristic is only shared with Charm and Memento. In Pokémon GO, Aurora Beam is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Zygarde Appears, while being controlled by Essentia, Y's Xerneas, Xerxer, was commanded to use Aurora Beam, but the move was interrupted by an attack from X's Pinsir, Rute. Pokémon Stadium Official Player's Guide from Nintendo Power wrongly claims that this move also has a chance to freeze the opponent.

Title: Hyper Beam (move)

For the Japanese merchandise collection named Hyper Beam, see Hyper Beam collection. Hyper Beam (Japanese: はかいこうせん Destruction Beam) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. TM15 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM48 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Hyper Beam inflicts damage. A recharge turn is required on the turn after damage is done, during which no action may be performed. Hyper Beam will not require a recharge turn if it misses, it breaks a substitute, it knocks out the target, the user is targeted by a binding move (even if it misses), the user flinches, or the user is put to sleep after the attack but before the recharge turn. However, being frozen does not prevent the need for the recharge turn of Hyper Beam. If the user is confused, the recharge turn of Hyper Beam will not count towards the number of turns the user will remain confused. If one Pokémon attacks first with a binding move that misses in a round in which the other Pokémon must recharge from a use of Hyper Beam, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam again during that turn instead of recharging. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterward its PP will roll over to 63, and full PP Ups will be applied to it. An opponent can still use items on the user while it's recharging, in which case it will recharge the turn after. In Pokémon Stadium, Hyper Beam requires a recharge turn every time it is used. Hyper Beam will always need to recharge if it hits, regardless if it knocks the opponent or a substitute out, unless the battle is completed in that turn or the attack misses. The binding move glitch has been fixed. If the user has Truant, the recharge and "loafing around" take place on the same turn. Hyper Beam is now special instead of physical, with a physical equivalent, Giga Impact, added. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Hyper Beam reduces the user's action speed instead of forcing it to recharge. In the Aquapolis e-Reader minigame Mighty Tyranitar, Hyper Beam is used by Tyranitar to destroy incoming rocks being fired out from an erupting volcano. Unlike in the main games, Hyper Beam does not require charging and can be used consecutively. Hyper Beam inflicts damage. If the move hits the target successfully, the user is inflicted with the recoil status condition for 1 turn (prior to Gates to Infinity, this move inflicted the Paused status condition), preventing them from acting on the next turn. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, Hyper Beam will create a 3×3 explosion around the target (or wall), dealing damage to allies and enemies by an amount determined by the normal damage formula, and destroys walls and items caught in the blast. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon, the move can reach enemies up to 10 tiles away in front of the user, and will pierce through enemies and walls (without breaking them), affecting all enemies within the 10 tile range. This is a Dragon-type move when used by Lance & Dragonite, Lance & Dragonair, and Lance & Kingdra due to their passive skill Dragon Shift. This is a Dragon-type move, costs only two move gauge slots to use, and never misses when used by Arc Suit Lance & Dragonite due to their passive skill The Caped Dragon Master. This is a Bug-type move when used by Alder & Volcarona and Arc Suit Alder & Volcarona due to their passive skills Bug Shift and The Wandering Champion, respectively. This is a Flying-type move when used by Lance (New Year's 2021) & Gyarados due to their passive skill Flying Shift. This is a Rock-type move when used by Blue (Classic) & Aerodactyl due to their passive skill Rock Shift. This is a Fire-type move when used by Blue & Arcanine due to their passive skill Fire Shift. This is a Poison-type move when used by Iris (Fall 2022) & Naganadel and due to their passive skill Poison Shift. This is a Water-type move when used by Scottie/Bettie & GyaradosEgg due to their passive skill Water Shift. This is a Fairy-type move when used by Volo & Togepi due to their passive skill Piqued Curiosity. This is a Dragon-type move due to Arc Suit Lance & Dragonite's passive skill The Caped Dragon Master. This is a Bug-type move due to Arc Suit Alder & Volcarona's passive skill The Wandering Champion. This is a Poison-type move due to Irida (Anniversary 2025) & Typhlosion's passive skill Soul-Eating Space. Mewtwo has been confirmed to know Hyper Beam. However, it has only been used in the radio drama The Birth of Mewtwo, so it has never been seen using it. Baron Alberto knew Hyper Beam when he was a Pokémon, due to the fact that his Lickilicky knows the move. In Exit Empoleon, Dahlia's Togekiss was mentioned to know Hyper Beam, but it was never seen using the move. Shu told Dragonair to use Hyper Beam in GDZ66 but called off the attack. Most Pokémon that can learn Giga Impact through TM can learn Hyper Beam through TM, and vice versa. It and Giga Impact can be learned via TM by many fully evolved Pokémon that can learn TMs, including Pokémon that were fully evolved at one point but later received one or more evolved forms, such as Porygon or Seadra. In Generation I, the Dratini family were the only Pokémon not fully evolved or single stage that could learn Hyper Beam, though possibly due to an oversight could only get it by level up not TM. On Kids' WB!, a Pokémon: Orange Island Adventures Pokéquiz segment aired during Pokémon Food Fight! incorrectly formatted Hyper Beam's name as "Hyperbeam." In the Brazilian dub of the animated series, Hyper Beam has been given many names, such as Hiper-farol, Hiper-fusão, Super-chama, and Raio Solar, the last one tending to cause much confusion because it is the Brazilian dub name of Solar Beam. In the Dutch dub of the animated series, especially in the first few seasons, it's often incorrectly translated to "Hydro Straal", which translates to "Hydro Beam". In the Generation I games and Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, there is a quiz question in Cinnabar Gym that asks if TM28 contains Tombstoner or Tombstony. In the original Japanese versions, the move is called しねしねこうせん Shineshine Kōsen, which can translate into a silly expression such as "Die-Die Beam" or "Die! Beam", playing on Hyper Beam's Japanese name, はかいこうせん Hakai Kōsen (Destruction Beam). Since Generation VI, the move has the same sound effect as it originally did in Generations I and II. In Pokémon Masters EX, Hyper Beam was the first usable move to cost four move-gauge slots. It premiered on Lance & Dragonite on December 26, 2019.

Title: Peck (move)

Peck (Japanese: つつく Peck) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. Peck inflicts damage and can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Peck can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Drill Peck and Fury Attack to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. In Perturbed by Pachirisu, Platinum's Prinplup was revealed to have used Peck, but the move was executed off-panel. In Piplup's Special Training, Piplup was told to use Peck, but he would use Bubble Beam instead. In some games, the Pokédex states that Pidgeotto "will fiercely peck at any intruder". However, Pidgeotto is unable to learn Peck.

Title: Drill Peck (move)

Drill Peck (Japanese: ドリルくちばし Drill Beak) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. Drill Peck inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. It can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Drill Peck can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Peck was used in the previous turn. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until November 16, 2020, which was 340 days after its release date (December 12, 2019). Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): The sync buff is doubled the first time a sync move is used.

Title: Submission (move)

Submission (Japanese: じごくぐるま Hell Wheel) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM17 in Generation I. Submission does damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 25% of the damage done to the target. If the user of Submission attacks first and faints due to recoil damage, the target will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will still be subject to recurrent damage even if the target faints. Self-inflicted recoil damage from Submission from the previous turn can be countered if the target does not make a move on the following turn. If Submission breaks a substitute, the user will take no recoil damage. In Stadium, no recoil damage is taken if Submission knocks out a target. The user will take recoil damage even if Submission breaks a substitute. Submission can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Mind Reader was used in the previous turn. Submission inflicts damage and the user receives recoil damage equal to ⅛ / 10% of their maximum HP. The move's Japanese name, じごくぐるま Hell Wheel, is a reference to a manga Jūdō Icchokusen by Ikki Kajiwara. This move's English name comes from the professional wrestling term submission hold, which is executed as a variety of MMA or jujutsu-inspired holds such as an armlock, leglock, or chokehold, in the hopes the opponent will either give up or be incapacitated to the point that they can no longer fight. This does not match the move's appearance in the animated series. Submission has the highest base PP and lowest power of all recoil moves. Submission's description in Pokémon Stadium and Stadium 2 falsely states it is the strongest Fighting-type attack — in Generation I, High Jump Kick is stronger in terms of base power, with Cross Chop and Dynamic Punch holding this status in Generation II. Submission is the only Fighting-type move that causes recoil damage if it hits.

Title: Low Kick (move)

If you were looking for the move that is known as Low Kick in Japanese, see Low Sweep. Low Kick (Japanese: けたぐり Kick Down) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TR07 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM012 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Low Kick has a power of 50, an accuracy of 90%, and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Low Kick cannot make a target with a substitute flinch. Low Kick now has 100% accuracy, and its power is now dependent on the weight of the target, inflicting greater damage on heavier targets. Its power is calculated as follows (note that the games use weight in kilograms instead of pounds for all the cutoffs): Low Kick is no longer able to cause the target to flinch. In games where height and weight are variable between members of the same species, Low Kick ignores those variations and considers only the base weight given to the target's species in the Pokédex. Low Kick will fail if used against a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon. Low Kick deals damage depending on the weight of the target. The heavier the target, the greater the damage dealt. In the Explorers and Adventure Sqaud series, the damage calculation is as follows. In the English dub of Ash and Trip's Third Battle!, Trip's Timburr's Low Sweep was mistakenly referred to as Low Kick, because the former is called ローキック Low Kick in the original Japanese version. This move is based on the sumo technique, "ketaguri", a kimarite in which the attacker leaps aside at the tachiai and sweeps his opponent's front leg from the inside while slapping the shoulder or pulling the arm. The Poliwag evolutionary line could not learn Low Kick via TR07 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, despite learning it by leveling up in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. This was fixed when Low Kick reappeared as TM012 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Counter (move)

Counter (Japanese: カウンター Counter) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM18 in Generation I. If the last amount of damage done before the use of Counter is greater than 0 and was dealt by a Normal-type or Fighting-type attack (except Counter), Counter will do twice as much damage to the opponent. Otherwise, Counter misses. Although Counter deals Fighting-type damage, it is not affected by type effectiveness (so it can affect Ghost-type Pokémon). If Counter fails due to the user not receiving Normal or Fighting type damage, the message will state that the attack missed. Counter has a priority of -1. If the opponent does not use a decreased priority move during the round that it is used, Counter will go last regardless of the user's or opponent's speed. If the opponent also uses a decreased priority move during the same round, the attack order of the users will be determined normally. If the user is put to sleep or is frozen during the round that Counter is (or attempts to be) used, Counter's decreased speed priority will not be reset. Subsequently, it will only be reset on the turn after the user wakes up or is defrosted, or if the user switches out. Counter can cause a critical hit, but the actual amount of damage dealt by it will not be altered by a critical hit. Counter will only counter the last hit of a multistrike move and the last attack of a binding move. Counter will always miss if called by Metronome. If both active Pokémon use Counter during the same round, both attacks will fail. An attack absorbed by a substitute can be countered for the amount of damage it would have done to the user had the user not had a substitute. Switching and using a multi-turn move will not reset the last amount of damage done, allowing Counter to counter itself as well as self-inflicted recoil damage. If an HP-restoring or battle item is used on the opponent during the same round that Counter is used, Counter will counter the item. Specifically, Counter will fail in the following circumstances (displayed as a miss): If the opponent's last selected move's power is 0 (all damaging moves have non-zero power, including moves like Seismic Toss that deal fixed damage) If the opponent's last selected move's type is not Normal or Fighting, or if the move is Counter If the last move used in the battle did no damage to its target, unless it is a status move that does not reset the data for the last damage-dealing move used. Moves that do not reset this data are: Conversion, Haze, Whirlwind, Roar, Teleport, Mist, Focus Energy, Supersonic, Confuse Ray, Recover, Softboiled, Rest, Transform, Light Screen, Reflect, PoisonPowder, Toxic, Poison Gas, Stun Spore, Thunder Wave, Glare, Substitute, Mimic, Leech Seed, and Splash. If the last damage was done by a Normal or Fighting attack, a Pokémon selected another type of attack and got fully paralyzed, and the opponent used Counter, then the two players will desynchronize. Likewise, if the last damage was done by another type of attack, a Pokémon selected a Normal or Fighting attack and got fully paralyzed, and the opponent used Counter, then the two players will also desynchronize. In Stadium, switching, full paralysis, and using a multi-turn move reset the last amount of damage done, so Counter can't counter itself or self-inflicted recoil damage if the opponent does not make a move on its following turn. Counter now counters all physical moves for twice the damage done to the user. Counter no longer counters a move that hits a substitute. Furthermore, Ghost-type Pokémon are now immune to Counter. Counter can counter Hidden Power regardless of its actual type. Counter can also counter Beat Up (despite Dark-type moves not being physical). In the core series games only, the OHKO moves Fissure and Horn Drill (but not Guillotine) can be countered for maximum damage if they missed. In Double Battles, Counter will hit the last opponent that dealt physical damage to the attacker. Counter cannot affect allied Pokémon. If the user didn't receive physical damage, the message now states that the move failed. Counter can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Taunt was used in the previous turn. Counter can no longer counter Hidden Power, since Hidden Power is now a special move. In Triple Battles, Counter can hit non-adjacent opponents provided a non-adjacent opponent was the last Pokémon to attack the user. If the Pokémon using Counter is hit by a physical attack that deals 0 damage (for example, False Swipe when the user of Counter already has 1 HP), Counter becomes a physical move with 1 base power. Counter can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Encore, Taunt or Torment was used in the prior turn. Counter gives the user the Counter status condition. With this status condition, the user will reflect any damage taken from physical moves (including the regular A button attack) back to any adjacent opponents equal to the damage received. Oddly, in Explorers of Time and Darkness, though moves are assigned as Physical or Special in game, Counter will return damage from damaging moves from types previously assigned as physical prior to the Physical/Special split. The status lasts for 7-12 / 6 turns. Pyukumuku appears as a Pokémon summoned from the Poké Ball. It uses Counter whenever an opponent gets close enough to it and waves goodbye before it leaves. It can also be picked up and thrown like an item. In Pokémon GO, Counter is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, Counter could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Counter could be seen as a move used by Boss Lycanroc (Midnight Form). In the Japanese version of Charizard Chills, Tad told his Poliwrath to prepare to use Counter, but the move was disrupted before it could be executed. In the English dub, this was mistranslated as Body Slam. In the Spanish and Italian versions of the games, the move was incorrectly translated to Contador and Contatore respectively (meaning someone or something that counts). This translation was corrected to Contraataque and Contrattacco (meaning "counterattack") in the Generation VI games. The Spanish animated series dub also corrected the name to Contraataque. The Polish dub of the animated series committed the same error. Counter is the only decreased priority move in Generation I. In Generation I, Gengar could learn Counter, despite it only countering Normal- and Fighting-type moves at the time, both of which Gengar is usually immune to. It can only counter back damage from Seismic Toss and Bide, which ignore type immunities.

Title: Seismic Toss (move)

Seismic Toss (Japanese: ちきゅうなげ Earth Throw) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM19 in Generation I and TM15 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Seismic Toss inflicts damage equal to the user's level. Although Seismic Toss is a Fighting-type move, its type does not alter the amount of damage it inflicts. Seismic Toss is not affected by type immunities, so it can hit Ghost-type Pokémon. Seismic Toss is now affected by type immunities; therefore, it cannot usually affect Ghost-type Pokémon. Seismic Toss can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Fake Out was used in the previous turn. It can also form part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Entrainment, Hold Hands, or Play Nice was used in the prior turn. In the Rescue Team and Explorers games, Seismic Toss deals damage equal to the user's level. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the move is now a status move and does not deal damage. It will instead throw its target (teammate or enemy) at another Pokémon or trap. In dungeons, enemy Pokémon can use Seismic Toss on other enemies to throw them at the player. In Pokémon UNITE, Charizard's Unite Move, Seismic Slam, is similar to Seismic Toss. In A Triple Fighting Chance!, Maylene commanded her Machoke to use Seismic Toss, but Ash's Staravia defeated it before the move could be executed. In Pikachu's Plan, Ash told his Charizard to use Seismic Toss, but the move was used off-panel. In the animated series, while using Seismic Toss, Pokémon using the move are commonly depicted circling the globe, and, in the Generation II, Pokémon Battle Revolution, Generation VI, VII, VIII, and IX games, a globe is shown as part of the animation. This is due to the Japanese name of the move being Earth Throw. In the first few seasons of the Dutch dub, Seismic Toss was called aardbeving, which is actually Dutch for Earthquake. Similarly, in the Pokémon BW: Rival Destinies season of Latin America dub, Seismic Toss was called Tiro Vital, which is actually the Spanish name for Vital Throw.

Title: Strength (move)

Strength (Japanese: かいりき Super Strength) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is HM04 in Generations I through VI, and TM96 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. In Generation VII, it was the signature move of Machamp. Strength inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Strength can be used outside of battle to move boulders around. In certain games, this requires a specific badge: the Rainbow Badge, Plain Badge, Heat Badge, Mine Badge, or Cliff Badge. Once this move is activated, players can move boulders around the field by walking into their tile, which places the boulder into the next tile (unless that tile is currently blocked by an obstacle, such as a wall or another boulder). In several games, there are puzzles that require boulders to be moved around in a certain way with Strength. Some boulders may be blocking the player's path through the current area, or at least be preventing the player from obtaining an item. In some cases, a boulder can be placed on a button found on the floor, which causes an obstacle to be removed somewhere. In some places (such as the Seafoam Islands, Ice Path and Blackthorn Gym), a boulder can be pushed onto a hole so it is dropped to the floor below. If the player leaves the current area, including by simply moving away from a boulder until it is out of view, boulders in the area will resume their original positions and the puzzle will need to be solved again if the player wishes to go back through the area. However, the boulders dropped from holes into the floors below will not return to their previous floors. If the player moves a boulder the wrong way, their progress can be prevented until the puzzle is reset. For instance, if the player moves the boulder to a corner where it cannot be moved anymore, the player will need to reset the puzzle if they want to try moving the boulder somewhere else. Strength will be automatically deactivated if the player leaves the current area (such as by going through a door). If the player is in a cave, going through stairs counts as leaving the current area, so the player may be required to use Strength several times in the same cave in order to move boulders in different floors. If the game is saved and restarted, Strength is deactivated, but any moved boulders in the current area will still be where the player left them. Strength can be activated at any time (even if there are no boulders in the current area) from the party screen. Strength can now be activated by interacting with a boulder and pressing A. Strength can now only be activated when there is a boulder in the vicinity. Boulders are now significantly bigger in size and are required to be pushed into holes and walked across, as opposed to pushed into corners and walked around. Once pushed into a hole, the boulders typically do not reset upon subsequent visits, and they do not need to be pushed again. Strength is no longer usable outside of battle. In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, its functions are given to the Ride Pokémon Machamp. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the player can use Secret Technique Strong Push instead. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Strength cannot be used outside of battle. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the move functions as it did in Generations IV to VI, aside from being accessed through the Pokétch rather than being taught to a Pokémon. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire and Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, using Strength in the Desert Ruins grants access to a chamber where the player finds Regirock. In the Rescue Team and Explorers, Strength is a status move which sends the enemy in front flying across the room. If there is another hostile Pokémon in the range, the target will bounce off of it before landing, causing both of them to take 10 HP damage. Being a non-damaging move, it is affected by Taunt. From Gates to Infinity onward, Strength is a normal damaging move. In Pokémon Pokopia, Strength is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Machoke in Rocky Ridges. It allows Ditto to push heavy objects in front of itself. If Secret Power is used in a building in Generation III, it will display the animation of Strength. Although HM moves cannot be used outside of battle in Orre, Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness has three locations housing puzzles similar to Strength puzzles in other regions: The first two puzzle are located at the S.S. Libra and Cipher Key Lair, where several areas are blocked off by big wooden crates, which the player must push to either clear way, close a gap, or press a big switch in order to proceed or access an item. Similar to Strength boulders before Generation V, these crates will reset if the player leaves and reenters the area. The third puzzle can be found at Citadark Isle, where the player must push big metal blocks down small cliffs to stop flows of lava in order to progress and access certain items. These blocks will not reset once pushed down to their proper spots. In the Generation IV core series games, due to a glitch, each time a Pokémon performs the animation for Strength in battle, its sprite will be translated right two pixels. In Generation VII, Machamp becoming the signature user of Strength coincides with its new role as a Ride Pokémon, which replaces Strength's out-of-battle function that existed in previous generations. In Japanese, Strength's name is also used for the category name of Machamp and its pre-Evolutions, being かいりきポケモン Kairiki Pokémon. Additionally, in Mandarin and Cantonese Chinese, Strength shares its name with Machamp; 怪力 Guàilì and 怪力 Gwaailihk respectively.

Title: Absorb (move)

If you were looking for the skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Absorb. Absorb (Japanese: すいとる Absorb) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. It is the first in a line of three Grass-type HP-draining attacks, the other two being Mega Drain and Giga Drain. Absorb inflicts damage, and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP (but not less than 1 HP), restoring up to the Pokémon's maximum HP. Absorb has 20 PP. In the localized versions of the Generation I games, if Absorb breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. In the Japanese version of Generation I games, and all versions of the Pokémon Stadium series and Generation II games, Absorb will always miss if the target has a substitute. Absorb will now properly heal the user when damaging a substitute, even if it was broken. When used on a Pokémon with the Liquid Ooze Ability, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Absorb can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. Absorb's PP is increased to 25. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Absorb cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Absorb's power was changed from 20 to 40, while its PP was reduced to 15. Absorb's power was changed back to 20, and its PP back to 25. Absorb deals damage and 50% of the damage dealt is restored to the user as HP. In Adventure Squad only, the move heals by 20% of dealt damage instead. In Gates to Infinity only, the user will heal based on how much HP the target lost, and excess damage is not accounted for. The move is affected by the Muzzle status condition in the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series. •Description of addition effect(s) prior to Version 2.10.0: Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. Diamond's Turtwig, Tru, was revealed to know Absorb on the official web site, but he was never shown using the move.

Title: Mega Drain (move)

Mega Drain (Japanese: メガドレイン Mega Drain) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM21 in Generation I and TM53 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is the second in a line of three Grass-type HP draining attacks, the other two being Absorb and Giga Drain. Mega Drain inflicts damage, and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP (but not less than 1 HP), restoring up to the Pokémon's maximum HP. Mega Drain has 40 base power and 10 PP. In the localized versions of the Generation I games, if Mega Drain breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. In the Japanese version of Generation I games, and all versions of the Pokémon Stadium series and Generation II games, Mega Drain will always miss if the target has a substitute. Mega Drain will now properly heal the user when damaging a substitute, even if it was broken. If used on a Pokémon with the Liquid Ooze Ability, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Mega Drain can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Growth was used in the previous turn. Mega Drain's base PP was increased to 15. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Mega Drain cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Mega Drain's power was changed from 40 to 75, while its PP was reduced back to 10. This makes it functionally identical to Giga Drain, a change likely implemented due to the latter move's absence from the game. Mega Drain's power was changed back to 40, and its PP was changed back to 15. Mega Drain inflicts damage and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP, including excess damage. In Adventure Squad only, the move heals by 20% of dealt damage instead. In Gates to Infinity only, the user will heal based on how much HP the target lost, and excess damage is not accounted for. In the dubbed version of Battling with Elegance and a Big Smile!, Clemont commented about Sawyer's Treecko using Mega Drain after their Gym battle. The move mentioned in the original Japanese version was Razor Leaf, a move that Treecko cannot legally learn. In The Ariados up There, Gold's Sunkern, Sunbo, was revealed to know Mega Drain, but Gold was interrupted before he could finish the attack command.

Title: Leech Seed (move)

Leech Seed (Japanese: やどりぎのタネ Mistletoe Seed) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. Leech Seed is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Rototiller was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Leech Seed, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Leech Seed targets the enemy in front, inflicting them with Leech Seed status condition. The afflicted Pokémon loses 10 HP / 5 HP at the end of every second turn, and 10 HP or 5 HP will be returned to the Pokémon that inflicted the move. The status lasts for 11-12 / 6 turns, or if the Pokémon that used Leech Seed is defeated. Grass-type Pokémon cannot become affected by Leech Seed. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Leech Seed is one of the random outcomes of Togepi's Metronome. All characters within the area of effect will receive a flower on their head that causes 5% damage every few seconds. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Leech Seed could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Leech Seed could be seen as a move used by opposing Sunkern. Though Leech Seed cannot affect Grass-type Pokémon in the games, Grass-type Pokémon have been affected in the animated series. Despite the origin of its Japanese name being a parasite that attaches itself to a host plant and absorbs nutrients, Leech Seed cannot affect Grass-type Pokémon.

Title: Growth (move)

Growth (Japanese: せいちょう Growth) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, it is a Grass-type move. Growth increases the user's Special stat by one stage. Growth instead increases the user's Special Attack stat by one stage. Growth can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Absorb, Bullet Seed, Frenzy Plant, Giga Drain, Magical Leaf, Mega Drain, Petal Dance, Razor Leaf, SolarBeam, and Vine Whip to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Growth now increases the user's Attack by one stage in addition to increasing Special Attack by one stage. In harsh sunlight, Growth raises Attack and Special Attack by two stages each. Growth can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra appeal point if the move Sunny Day was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Growth, the user's Special Attack stat rises by another stage. Growth is a Grass-type move in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Growth raises the user's Attack and Sp. Attack by one stage (only raises the Sp. Attack stat prior to Gates to Infinity). In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Growth could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Growth could be seen as a move used by Boss Bellsprout and Snivy. Despite being a Normal-type move, Comfey is the only Pokémon to learn Growth via level-up that isn't Grass-type. Outside of events, Illumise and Numel can also learn the move, but only through breeding with a Grass-type Pokémon.

Title: Razor Leaf (move)

Razor Leaf (Japanese: はっぱカッター Leaf Cutter) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. Razor Leaf deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. In battles with multiple opponents, Razor Leaf targets all adjacent foes. Razor Leaf's odds of landing critical hits is calculated for each hit opponent individually. Razor Leaf will also destroy grass patches found in the background of battles. Razor Leaf can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. Razor Leaf deals damage. This move has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Razor Leaf is Ivysaur's side special move. When used, a single leaf is thrown in a slightly random trajectory (though it is very close to straight), dealing damage and knockback on those it hits. Chikorita uses Razor Leaf after coming out of a Poké Ball in Super Smash Bros. Melee and Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Snivy uses Razor Leaf after coming out of a Poké Ball in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U. However, it cannot legitimately learn this move in the main series games. This buddy move was known as B Razor Leaf prior to version 2.38.0. In Battling with Elegance and a Big Smile!, Clemont commented about Sawyer's Treecko's Razor Leaf after their Gym battle. However, Treecko is unable to learn Razor Leaf. This was replaced by Mega Drain in the dub, a move that Treecko can legally learn. A wild Nuzleaf was revealed to know Razor Leaf on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. A wild Sewaddle was revealed to know Razor Leaf on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom Razor Leaf is among the three attacks enhanced into "new" moves in the Pokémon Adventures manga, the others being Thunderbolt and Thunder. It also has the longest name of a "move" in any media, being titled by Diamond as "Razor Leaf Dia Special Mach One and Only." During Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire, the Finnish and Latin American dubs, probably by mistake, used the same translated name for both Razor Leaf and Leaf Blade, even though the translation fits more accurately on the latter and the original series had already used a different, arguably better-suiting, translation of the first. A similar thing happens in the Brazilian Portuguese dub, with Razor Leaf's and Leaf Blade's names coinciding from Clamperl of Wisdom to From Cradle to Save. It is unknown why this happened in the first place, as Leaf Blade was known as Lâmina de Folha up to The Garden of Eatin'.

Title: Solar Beam (move)

Solar Beam (Japanese: ソーラービーム Solar Beam), formatted as SolarBeam prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. TM22 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM45 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. SolarBeam does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than state that the user has taken in sunlight. On the following turn, SolarBeam will inflict damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once SolarBeam is selected, the user will not be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. If SolarBeam is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the target uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user takes in sunlight, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using SolarBeam (or fail if it can't). Sleep, freezing, binding, and flinching will pause, but not disrupt, the duration of SolarBeam. In Pokémon Stadium, Mirror Move will copy SolarBeam on either of the turns it takes to execute. SolarBeam will not need a turn to charge if used during harsh sunlight. It will have its power halved if used during rain. If the user is prevented from attacking with SolarBeam during harsh sunlight by conditions such as flinching, paralysis, and confusion, then PP will still be deducted regardless, due to the fact that SolarBeam was designed as a two-turn attack. If SolarBeam is disrupted from succeeding due to conditions such as flinching, paralysis, or confusion, the entire move will now be cancelled rather than simply paused. SolarBeam will also have its power halved if used during hail, fog or when a sandstorm is raging. If a Pokémon holding a Power Herb uses SolarBeam, it will consume the Power Herb to execute SolarBeam in one turn. If there is harsh sunlight, the Power Herb will not be consumed. SolarBeam can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Growth or Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. A minor change shows the charging half of SolarBeam's animation happening even if it is sunny, where previously it did not. The actual attack will happen immediately after. Strong winds have no effect on Solar Beam's power. Solar Beam can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the prior turn. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Solar Beam's power was increased from 120 to 200. The user gains the Solar Beam status condition on the first turn, and unleashes the move on the next turn. In Sunny weather or in Extremely Harsh Sunlight, the move will skip its charging phase and fire immediately. Its damage will be reduced in Rain, Heavy Rain, Hail, or a Sandstorm. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. This damage modifier will not occur in Rain, Hail, or a Sandstorm (effectively halving the damage dealt). Being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Solar Beam cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. Ivysaur uses Solar Beam as part of Pokémon Trainer's Final Smash, Triple Finish. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The user gets ready to attack. Using this move again will cause the user to attack. No other actions can be taken while ready to attack. The preparation period is skipped if the weather is sunny, and the user can attack right away. Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Crystal's Rapidash was revealed to know Solar Beam by Emerald's Pokédex. In All About Arceus VIII, Gold told his Sunflora, Sunbo, to use Solar Beam, but the move was executed off-panel. In Generation I only, Exeggcute can learn SolarBeam by leveling up, but not by TM.

Title: Poison Powder (move)

Poisonpowder redirects here. For the Pokémon Play It! Version 2 Theme Deck, see Poisonpowder Deck (TCG). Poison Powder (Japanese: どくのこな PoisonPowder), formatted as PoisonPowder prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. It appears to be a poisoning counterpart to Sleep Powder and Stun Spore, as the accuracy, Contest group, appeal, effects, Japanese names, and animation are the same or very similar. They are also usually learned at the same level or in a similar pattern. PoisonPowder poisons the target. Poison-type Pokémon are unaffected by PoisonPowder. Steel-type Pokémon are unaffected by PoisonPowder. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses PoisonPowder, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. PoisonPowder does not affect targets with Immunity as their Ability. PoisonPowder can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Sweet Scent was used in the previous turn. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding the Safety Goggles are now immune to Poison Powder. Poison Powder can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex, Venom Drench and Venoshock to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Poison Powder, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Poison Powder poisons the enemy if possible. Poison- and Steel-type Pokémon cannot be poisoned, while Grass-type Pokémon from Super Mystery Dungeon cannot be affected as it is a powder move. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Poison Powder could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Poison Powder could be seen as a move used by Boss Gloom, Venomoth, and Weepinbell. In the English dub of A Tent Situation, James told his Victreebel to use Poison Powder. In the original Japanese version, he didn't issue any kind of order to use a move. In The Secret of Kangaskhan, Blue's Venomoth was revealed to know Poison Powder by his Pokédex.

Title: Stun Spore (move)

Stun Spore (Japanese: しびれごな Numbing Powder) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. It appears to be a paralyzing counterpart to Poison Powder and Sleep Powder, as the accuracy, Contest group, appeal, effects, Japanese names and animation are the same or very similar. They are also usually learned at the same level or in a similar pattern. Stun Spore paralyzes the target. In the Generation I handheld games only, Stun Spore can affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Stun Spore, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Stun Spore cannot affect targets with Limber as their Ability. Stun Spore can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Sweet Scent was used in the previous turn. Grass-type and Electric-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding the Safety Goggles are now immune to Stun Spore. Stun Spore can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex and Smelling Salts to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Stun Spore, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Stun Spore targets all adjacent enemy Pokémon and inflicts paralysis on them. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Stun Spore could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Stun Spore could be seen as a move used by Boss Parasect, Hoppip, Shroomish, Budew, and Scatterbug. In the English dub of Jump for Joy!, a group of wild Oddish was mentioned to use Stun Spore, although this move is actually Sleep Powder in the Japanese version, with the dub version even maintaining its effect of inducing sleep despite the name change. In A Hollow Victreebel, Red's Victreebel was revealed to know Stun Spore, although it was never seen using it. Stun Spore is the only Grass-type move able to paralyze the opponent.

Title: Sleep Powder (move)

Sleep Powder (Japanese: ねむりごな Sleep Powder) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. It appears to be a sleep counterpart to Poison Powder and Stun Spore, as the accuracy, Contest group, appeal, effects, Japanese names and animation are the same or very similar. They are also usually learned at the same level or in a similar pattern. In the Generation I handheld games only, Sleep Powder can affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Sleep Powder, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Sleep Powder cannot affect targets with Insomnia, Vital Spirit or Sap Sipper as their Ability. Sleep Powder can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Sweet Scent was used in the previous turn. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding the Safety Goggles are now immune to Sleep Powder. Pokémon under the effect of Sweet Veil are also unaffected by Sleep Powder. Sleep Powder can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Sleep Powder, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Sleep Powder causes the enemy to fall alseep. Grass-type Pokémon from Super Mystery Dungeon onwards cannot be affected as it is a powder move. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sleep Powder could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sleep Powder could be seen as a move used by Boss Venusaur, Victreebel and Jumpluff. In A Hollow Victreebel, Red's Victreebel was revealed to know Sleep Powder, although it was never seen using it.

Title: Petal Dance (move)

Petal Dance (Japanese: はなびらのまい Petal Dance) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was the signature move of Oddish's evolutionary line. It is TM151 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Petal Dance inflicts damage for 3-4 turns, has a base power of 70, and 20 PP. PP is deducted only on the turn Petal Dance is first called. Once called, even if the move misses, the user will only be able to use Petal Dance, and will not be able to switch out. After Petal Dance is finished, the user becomes confused, due to fatigue. If the Petal Dance duration is disrupted (such as by full paralysis or hurting itself due to confusion), it will immediately end. The user will only become confused if Petal Dance is fully executed, without its duration being disrupted. Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Petal Dance. If a change in accuracy or evasion affects Petal Dance's accuracy, the decrease in accuracy will be reapplied on each automatic turn. Its accuracy will return to normal when it is selected again. If Petal Dance misses due to the 99.6% accuracy bug of 100%-accuracy moves when there are no other accuracy or evasion modifiers in effect, or in case said modifiers cancel each other, its accuracy will be unaffected. If Petal Dance misses during the turn it is selected, its secondary effects will not activate. In Stadium, after the duration of Petal Dance ends, there will be a notice that the user becomes confused. The duration of Petal Dance is decreased to 2-3 turns. In battles with multiple opponents, the user selects itself as the target, but hits an adjacent opponent that is selected at random upon each use of the move. Petal Dance can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. The power of Petal Dance is increased to 90. All other effects are the same. The power of Petal Dance is further increased to 120, and its PP is reduced to 10. It is disrupted if it is not successful due to missing, sleeping, paralysis, freeze, flinching or is blocked by a protection move. If a disruption occurs on what would have been the final, confusion-inducing turn of Petal Dance, the user will still become confused. Petal Dance's base power was reduced to 90, and its accuracy to 85%. It no longer continues for multiple turns and confuses the user, and instead the user becomes fixated on using Petal Dance. Petal Dance is a multi-strike move with 40 power that inflicts damage three times around the user and confuses them after they successfully execute the move. If the user flinches during the wind-up, Petal Dance will go on cooldown but the user will not be confused. Petal Dance deals damage, hitting the target 2-3 times (2-5 times prior to Gates to Infinity) per use. The user becomes confused after the move ends. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time & Darkness and its sequel, Sunflora was mentioned to know Petal Dance, but it never got a chance to use the move on-screen.

Title: String Shot (move)

String Shot (Japanese: いとをはく Spit Thread) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation I. String Shot decreases the targets' Speed stat by one stage. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses String Shot, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. In battles with multiple opponents, String Shot targets all adjacent foes. String Shot can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Spider Web to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. String Shot now decreases the targets' Speed stat by two stages. String Shot can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing any of the moves Electroweb, Spider Web and Sticky Web to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-String Shot, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. String Shot lowers the Travel Speed of the target by one stage. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including String Shot could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. String Shot could be seen as a move used by Boss Grubbin. In The Treasure Is All Mine!, Sebastian told his Spinarak to use String Shot on James, but James had his Mime Jr. confuse Sebastian and Spinarak with Teeter Dance before the move could be used. Janine's Ariados was revealed to know String Shot on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Bugsy's Metapod was told to use String Shot in Let's Aim For The Goal! but it was not shown using the move. String Shot is the only Bug-type status move that has an accuracy less than 100%.

Title: Dragon Rage (move)

Dragon Rage (Japanese: りゅうのいかり Dragon Rage) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM23 in Generation I. Dragon Rage always inflicts exactly 40 HP damage if it hits. It has no secondary effects and does not take weaknesses or resistances into account, but it does not ignore type immunity. In Generation II only, its base power is displayed as 40 instead of —. Dragon Rage can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Dragon Claw, Dragon Dance, and Dragon Breath to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal points if Dragon Dance or Dragon Breath was used in the previous turn. Dragon Rage is now affected by King's Rock, except in Generation IV. Dragon Rage deals a fixed amount of damage to the enemy. In the Rescue Team series, Dragon Rage deals 65 damage to enemies. From the Explorers series, the move deals 30 damage. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the move's range changes depending on the user's level. When the user is under level 40, it has a range of one tile. When the user is between level 40 and 80, it can hit any enemy in a fan-shaped area in front of the user, though they must be in the unit's vision. From level 80 on, it can hit any enemy in a fan-shaped area in front of the user, regardless of if they can be seen or not. Clair told her Dragonair to use Dragon Rage in The Dragonite's Imperial Wrath, but the move wasn't shown. Dragon Rage is the only Dragon-type move in Generation I. However, it is not affected by type match-ups, so there are no moves that deal Dragon-type damage in Generation I. In Pokémon Stadium 2 and Pokémon Battle Revolution, Dragon Rage is disabled in the Little Cup due to low level Pokémon having low HP. Growlithe, Arcanine, and Mew are the only non-draconic Pokémon to learn this move, and only in Generation I. Excluding Z-Moves, Dragon Rage is the only Dragon-type move to not be usable in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Fire Spin (move)

Fire Spin (Japanese: ほのおのうず Flame Swirl) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation I. Fire Spin has a power of 15 and an accuracy of 70%. Fire Spin inflicts damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns, and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Although only the first hit can be a critical hit, each turn's hit will deal the same amount of damage. Until Fire Spin ends, the target will be unable to attack, including the starting turn, if the user of Fire Spin moves first. Fire Spin will prevent the target from attacking even if it hits a substitute. While it's inflicting damage, the text "<Pokémon>'s attack continues!" appears. While Fire Spin is ongoing, neither the user nor the target will be able to select moves (selecting "Fight" will cause the user to continue to deal damage and the target to do nothing), but both the user and target can switch out. No message is given on the last turn, so players will not know whether Fire Spin has ended unless they select "Fight" to open the move list. Damage done by Fire Spin's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches out before the turn duration ends, the target will be unable to attack during that turn. If the target switches out before the turn duration ends, Fire Spin will automatically be used against the incoming Pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move, with the usual miss chance. If at such a time Fire Spin has 0 PP, Fire Spin will still be used, and the current PP of Fire Spin will roll over to 63, applying full PP Ups Even if Fire Spin misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam. Additionally, if the user of Fire Spin attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn and the use of Fire Spin misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it. In Pokémon Stadium, the player can select a move during each turn of Fire Spin's duration. If the target switches out before the duration ends, the incoming Pokémon will not be automatically attacked; instead, the user's turn is skipped. Fire Spin will negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful. The target is now able to attack during Fire Spin's duration, and can act normally. Instead, it inflicts 1/16 of the target's maximum HP as damage for two to five turns upon use, in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. There is now an equal 25% chance that it will attack for 2, 3, 4 or 5 turns. The quote "<Pokémon> was trapped!" will appear. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a trapped Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. If a wild Pokémon uses Fire Spin on the player's Pokémon, the player may now escape if the affected Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. However, these do not allow the player to switch the Pokémon out. The text also changes to "<Pokémon> was trapped in the vortex!" If the user of Fire Spin is holding a Grip Claw, the duration of Fire Spin will always be 5 turns. Also, if an affected Pokémon is holding a Shed Shell, it can switch out. Fire Spin can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Fire Spin's power and accuracy were raised to 35 and 85 respectively, and it now lasts for four to five turns. If a Grip Claw is held by the user, Fire Spin will now always last for seven turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/16 of the target's maximum HP to 1/8. The text changes again, this time to "<Pokémon> was trapped in the fiery vortex!" The end turn damage of Fire Spin is increased from 1/16 to 1/8 of the target's maximum HP. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the end turn damage of Fire Spin will increase to 1/6 of the target's maximum HP. Ghost-type Pokémon cannot be trapped by Fire Spin. Fire Spin creates a lingering area of effect that periodically inflicts damage to opposing Pokémon inside. When used as a Plus Move, its area of effect is increased. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Fire Spin deals damage and may inflict the Constriction status condition on the enemy. This renders the enemy unable to move (though it may attack) and lose 5 HP every two turns. This status lasts for 4-6 turns. From Gates to Infinity onwards, the move instead may inflict the Fire Spin status condition for 6 turns, which renders the enemy unable to move (though it may attack) and lose 3 HP every two turns. In Pokémon GO, Fire Spin is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pikachu's Plan, Ash told his Charizard to use Fire Spin, but the move was used off-panel. Charon's Heatran was revealed to know Fire Spin on the official website, but it has never been shown using the move. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder Yū's Infernape was revealed to know Fire Spin in PBK2 but it was not shown using it. Despite the function of binding moves being changed from Generation I to Generation II, Fire Spin's description in Pokémon Stadium 2 still states it makes the target unable to move. This is also the case for Bind and Wrap. Fire Spin is the only Fire-type move introduced in Generation I that cannot inflict a burn, and as a result it is the only one that cannot thaw a frozen target (prior to Generation III)

Title: Thunder Shock (move)

Thunder Shock (Japanese: でんきショック Electric Shock), formatted as ThunderShock prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation I. ThunderShock inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of paralyzing the target. ThunderShock cannot paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. ThunderShock can now paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. ThunderShock can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Charge was used in the previous turn. Thunder Shock can no longer paralyze Electric-type Pokémon once again, due to them now being immune to paralysis. Thunder Shock can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. Thunder Shock inflicts damage and may leave the target paralyzed. The move's base critical hit rate is lower than normal (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Pikachu uses Thunder Shock as its custom neutral special 3, replacing Thunder Jolt. It doesn't travel as far and is less powerful than Thunder Jolt, but at the end of the attack there is a burst of electricity, which deals more damage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In the English dub of Lights, Camera, Quack-tion, Katrina commanded her Raichu use Thunder Shock. This is a dubbing error; in the Japanese version, the commanded move was Thunder. In the English dub of Hello, Pummelo!, Drake told his Ditto, who had transformed into a Pikachu, to use Thunder Shock. In the Japanese version, he had it use Thunderbolt instead. In the English dub of Trouble's Brewing, Satsuki commanded her Jolteon to use Thunder Shock. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, she instead told Jolteon to use Zap Cannon. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~

Title: Thunderbolt (move)

Thunderbolt (Japanese: １０まんボルト 100,000 Volts) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation I. TM24 in Generation I, from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM36 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Stoked Sparksurfer by Alolan Raichu holding Aloraichium Z, and to the special Z-Move 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt by Pikachu in a cap holding Pikashunium Z. Thunderbolt does damage and has a 10% chance of paralyzing the target. Thunderbolt cannot paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. Thunderbolt can now paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. Thunderbolt can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Charge was used in the previous turn. Thunderbolt's power was decreased from 95 to 90. It can no longer paralyze Electric-type Pokémon once again, due to them now being immune to paralysis. Thunderbolt can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. Thunderbolt inflicts damage and may leave the target paralyzed. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target paralyzed. This buddy move was known as B Thunderbolt prior to version 2.38.0. For used every slot of the user's move gauge, this attack move's power increases by 25%. This happens before power increases from skills apply. The following table demonstrates the different powers that Best Buddies Thunderbolt can have at move level 1, before any skills are applied. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Thunderbolt is the Power Card belonging to Pikachu. Once per game, the player using Pikachu may move every other player's token to Zapdos, then roll the dice, receiving quadruple the number rolled in Pokémon Dollars from each player, regardless of whether or not they own Zapdos. If Zapdos is not owned by any player, the player using Pikachu is additionally given the opportunity to purchase it from the bank. In Tie One On!, Macy's Starmie was mentioned to have used Thunderbolt on Jackson's Poliwhirl off-screen. In Betrayed, Bothered, and Beleaguered!, Tony commanded his Electabuzz to use Thunderbolt, but it was defeated by Ash's Riolu before it could execute the command. This move's name is the same as the category of Electivire and Zebstrika. Thunderbolt is the only move that can be upgraded into multiple exclusive Z-Moves: Alolan Raichu's Stoked Sparksurfer and Pikachu in a cap's 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt. Thunderbolt's Japanese name, １０まんボルト 100,000 Volts, corresponds with the information present in some of Raichu's Pokédex entries, which state its electric bursts can reach and, in some cases, even exceed 100,000 volts. Several moves have Japanese names in the same format, referencing a number of volts. In Pokémon Adventures, Red's Pikachu Pika used an improvised move called MegaVolt (Japanese: １００まんボルト 1,000,000 Volts), whose measurement of 106 volts puts it at 10 times the strength of Thunderbolt. 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt (Japanese: １０００まんボルト 10,000,000 volts), the exclusive Z-Move of Pikachu in a cap, has a measurement of 107 volts, being 100 times the voltage of Thunderbolt. Though not named in exactly the same format, Gigavolt Havoc's (Japanese: スパーキングギガボルト Sparking Gigavolt) name contains the metric prefix "giga", which indicates 109 (1,000,000,000), making it 10,000 times the voltage of Thunderbolt. While Thunderbolt is depicted crashing down on the opponent in the handheld games, its depiction in the console games is more akin to how it is depicted in the animated series, as the bolt goes straight toward the opponent. Despite this change, its description still stated "a strong electric blast crashes down on the target" until Pokémon Legends: Arceus. In Pokémon Red and Green, the battle effect for Thunderbolt contains several more, shorter flashes compared to the animation in the international Pokémon Red and Blue. The move animation was likely toned down to prevent epileptic seizures. In some copies of Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, using Thunderbolt or Thunder may cause the game to freeze during the moves' animation sequences. This, however, can be prevented by turning off the battle effects in the options menu. In Pokémon FireRed, LeafGreen, and Emerald, the sound of Thunderbolt or Thunder may get stuck until the game resets. Because it has been a staple of Pikachu's moveset since the fifth ever episode, Thunderbolt is one of the most, if not the most, featured move throughout all of Pokémon the Series. In addition, as revealed in Climbing the Walls!, it is Ash's favorite move. Thunderbolt is among the three attacks enhanced into "new" moves in the Pokémon Adventures manga, the others being Razor Leaf and Thunder.

Title: Thunder Wave (move)

Thunder Wave (Japanese: でんじは Electromagnetic Wave) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation I. TM73 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM16 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Thunder Wave has 100% accuracy and paralyzes the target. Thunder Wave takes types into consideration, so it cannot usually affect Ground-type Pokémon. This will take type changes into account, such as if Thunder Wave is affected by Normalize (which would make Ghost-type Pokémon immune to it). In the Generation I handheld games only, Thunder Wave can affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Thunder Wave, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Thunder Wave cannot affect targets with Limber as their Ability. Thunder Wave can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charge was used in the previous turn. It can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex and Smelling Salts to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Ground-type Pokémon holding a Ring Target can be affected by Thunder Wave. Thunder Wave can no longer paralyze Electric-type Pokémon, due to them being immune to paralysis. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Thunder Wave, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Thunder Wave paralyzes the enemy in front. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Thunder Wave could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Thunder Wave could be seen as a move used by Boss Minun. This move never misses when used by Marnie & Liepard due to their passive skill Piercing Gaze. Pikachu uses Thunder Wave as its custom neutral special 2, replacing Thunder Jolt. Thunder Wave does less damage than Thunder Jolt, but it leaves the opponent stunned for a short period of time. In the English dub of The Winner by a Nosepass, Roxanne commanded her Nosepass to use Thunder Wave instead of Zap Cannon as in the original Japanese version. This was corrected later on in the episode. In Watt's with Wattson?, Wattson mentioned that his Magnemite knows Thunder Wave. However, it has never been seen using the move. In the English dub of Manectric Charge, Wattson commanded his Manectric to use Thunder Wave twice. In the original Japanese version, the latter command was for Shock Wave instead. In the English dub of Coming Full-Festival Circle!, Zoey commanded her Mismagius to use Thunder Wave. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, the commanded move was Shock Wave. In Best Friend...Worst Nightmare!, Ren commanded his Magnemite, Francois, to use Thunder Wave, but it was restricted due to a wild Gengar having tied its body up with cables. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, a Linoone that Emerald was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Thunder Wave by Emerald's Pokédex. Thunder Wave is the only status move that takes the type chart into account. Consequently, it is the only status move that cannot hit Ground-type Pokémon (even when other status moves are affected by Electrify). In Generations II and III, Glare also took the type chart into account. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team and its remake Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX have a dungeon that shares the name with this move (though only partially in French, German and Korean versions): Thunderwave Cave. In the Japanese version, the kanji equivalent is 「電磁波」.

Title: Thunder (move)

Thunder (Japanese: かみなり Lightning) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation I. TM25 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM38 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Thunder deals damage and has a 10% chance of paralyzing the target. Thunder cannot paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. Thunder now has a 30% chance to paralyze the target. Thunder can now paralyze Electric-type Pokémon. When used during rain, Thunder bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Dive. When used during harsh sunlight, its accuracy is reduced to 50%. Thunder can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, Bounce, and Sky Drop. Thunder can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charge, Lock-On, or Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl only, due to a glitch, when used in rain it has a 30% chance to hit a target that has used Protect or Detect. Thunder's power was reduced from 120 to 110. It can no longer paralyze Electric-type Pokémon once again, due to them now being immune to paralysis. Thunder can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if either Charge or Rain Dance was used in the prior turn. Thunder functions similarly to Hurricane and Blizzard (coincidentally all moves that have 70% accuracy in the turn-based games). Upon the wind-up completing an electricity effect appears underneath the target's current location; the actual thunderstrike arrives after a delay to damage any enemies in the area. Thunder inflicts damage and may leave the target paralyzed. The move can hit a Pokémon in middle of Fly, Bounce or Sky Drop, and its accuracy is affected by weather. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Thunder has a base PP of 20 and a base accuracy of 90%. Pikachu uses Thunder as its down special move. It summons a thunderbolt from the sky to attack opponents on the ground. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Thunder now summons a cloud that fires the thunderbolt, making the attack's range shorter. Additionally, the thunderbolt now acts a Meteor Smash. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Pichu also uses Thunder as its down special move. It functions similarly to Pikachu's Thunder, although it strikes multiple times. If the thunderbolt hits Pichu, it will take damage. This move never misses when used by Ash & Pikachu, Iono & Kilowattrel, or May (Champion) & Kyogre due to their passive skills Ash's Passion, Piercing Gaze, and Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit, respectively. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Never misses when the weather is rainy. Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In some copies of Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, using Thunder or Thunderbolt may cause the game to freeze during the moves' animation sequences. This can be remedied by turning off the battle effects in the options menu. In Pokémon FireRed, LeafGreen, and Emerald, the sound of Thunder or Thunderbolt may get stuck until the game resets. Thunder is among the three attacks enhanced into "new" moves in the Pokémon Adventures manga, the others being Thunderbolt and Razor Leaf. In Pokémon Stadium 2, the game errornously states that it has a 10% chance of paralyzing the target, even thought it was changed to 30% in Gen II.

Title: Rock Throw (move)

Rock Throw (Japanese: いわおとし Rock Drop) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation I. Rock Throw deals damage and has no secondary effect. It has an accuracy of 65%. Rock Throw can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Rock Slide and Rock Tomb to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Onix uses Rock Throw in Super Smash Bros. when released from a Poké Ball. It will leap into the air and drop several rocks. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer In Generation III, Secret Power has the animation of Rock Throw if used on a rocky surface. From Generation IV onwards, Secret Power additionally has the animation of Rock Throw if used in a cave.

Title: Earthquake (move)

Earthquake (Japanese: じしん Earthquake) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation I. TM26 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM41 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Earthquake inflicts damage and has no secondary effects. Earthquake can hit a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig, and if it does, it will have its power doubled for that Pokémon. Earthquake will hit all adjacent Pokémon, including allies. Earthquake can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Eruption and Fissure to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If Earthquake hits a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig, instead of doubling power, damage is technically doubled instead now, resulting in virtually the same effect. If Grassy Terrain is in effect, Earthquake's power is halved when damaging Pokémon on the ground. Earthquake generates its damaging area around the user, similar to Bulldoze and Sludge Wave. Earthquake deals damage to all Pokémon in the room (including teammates) except the user. It will deal double damage to those in middle of using Dig. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until November 23, 2020, which is 327 days after its release date (on January 1, 2020). In Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie, a Golem that Noland was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Earthquake by Emerald's Pokédex. Cynthia's Garchomp was revealed to know Earthquake on the official web site, but she was never shown using the move. All fully evolved first partner Pokémon introduced prior to Generation V can learn Earthquake by TM26, although Venusaur couldn’t learn it until Generation III. From Generation V onwards, only the fully evolved Fire-type first partner Pokémon from odd-numbered generations and the fully evolved Grass-type first partner Pokémon from even-numbered generations can learn it. After the 2004 Chūetsu earthquakes, a scheduled episode that would feature a Whiscash using Earthquake was banned in Japan. As a result, Earthquake, and the similar moves Fissure and Magnitude, have not been seen or used in the animated series since. Bulldoze, on the other hand, debuted nine years later in Clemont's Got a Secret!. In Pokémon Emerald, Cooltrainer Dianne in Victory Road has a Lanturn that knows Earthquake, even though it cannot legitimately learn the move in any generation. Nincada, Palpitoad, Silvally, Toedscool, and Toedscruel are the only Ground-type Pokémon that cannot learn Earthquake. If a player teaches an Aerodactyl Earthquake from a Generation II game, trades it to Generation I then uses that Aerodactyl in Pokémon Stadium, the Aerodactyl will glitch and use a unique animation, where it spins quickly in place.

Title: Fissure (move)

Fissure (Japanese: じわれ Fissure) is a Ground-type one-hit knockout move introduced in Generation I. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Diglett and Dugtrio. It is TM27 in Generation I and TM154 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Fissure always inflicts exactly 65535 HP damage if it hits. Its accuracy is 30%. Fissure will break a substitute if it hits. Unlike other moves that skip the damage formula, Fissure does not bypass type immunities. Fissure will not affect a target whose current Speed stat is greater than the user's current Speed stat. Fissure now inflicts damage equal to the target's current HP. The accuracy of Fissure is now calculated using the following formula: If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails (Speed no longer has any impact on the success of Fissure). If the user is 90 levels or more higher than the target, Fissure's accuracy is 100% (even though the formula would produce values over 100% for a difference of 91 or more). This formula means that the accuracy starts at approximately 30% (76256) when the Pokémon have the same level, and grows by approximately 0.78% (2256) for every level higher than the target that the user is. This accuracy is affected by accuracy and evasion stats. Fissure can also now affect Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig. In the Generation II core series games only, Fissure can be countered by Counter for maximum damage if it misses. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Fissure cannot be countered by Counter. Despite having an accuracy of 30% listed, Fissure's chance of hitting a Pokémon is instead calculated using the following formula: This formula means that the accuracy starts at 30% when the Pokémon have the same level, and is 1% more likely to hit for every level the user is higher than the target. If the user is at least 70 levels higher than the target, Fissure will always hit. If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails. This chance of hitting is not an accuracy: it is not affected by accuracy and evasion stats, nor is it affected by other accuracy modifiers such as Gravity, Wide Lens, and Compound Eyes. Additionally, Fissure cannot hit a semi-invulnerable Pokémon. However, effects that guarantee moves to hit (such as No Guard and Lock-On) still affect Fissure if the user's level isn't lower than the target's. Fissure can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Earthquake was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Lock-On, Mind Reader and Miracle Eye was used in the prior turn. When used in a Max Raid Battle against a Dynamax Pokémon while it is under the effect of a mysterious barrier, Fissure will deplete two bars of the barrier's strength. Otherwise, Fissure will always fail against Dynamax Pokémon. Tera Raid bosses are unaffected by Fissure. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Fissure doesn't instantly knock out targets, instead dealing damage normally. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Fissure is not a one-hit knockout move, so Groudon receives STAB using it. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Fissure is not a one-hit knockout move, so Ground-type Pokémon receive STAB using it. Fissure defeats the target in one hit. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Fissure knocks out the target by deaing "calamitous damage" (Japanese: とてつもない タメージ tremendous damage) which is internally treated as 9999 damage. Unlike in the core series games, it cannot hit a Pokémon in middle of Dig. Additionally, it will fail against Flying-type Pokémon and Pokémon with the Ability Levitate. Due to the 2004 Chūetsu earthquake, this move, alongside Earthquake and Magnitude, has not been seen in the animated series since AG101 (unaired) (which has never aired anywhere in the world). After defeating Giovanni at the Viridian Gym in Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow, he mentions that he made the TM27 that teaches Fissure in Generation I. In Pokémon Yellow, a game highly based on the animated series, there is a Youngster on Route 9 with a Sandshrew that knows Fissure, much like A.J.'s Sandshrew in the animated series. This is the only physical one-hit knockout move that does not make contact.

Title: Dig (move)

This article is about the move Dig. For the field move Tunnel 1, see Field Move (Ranger). Dig (Japanese: あなをほる Dig Hole) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation I. TM28 from Generation I to Generation VI, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. TM10 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. The user digs underground and becomes immune to almost all moves during the first turn, known as a semi-invulnerable turn. On the following turn, Dig will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Dig is selected, the user will not be able to switch out until the move is disrupted or fully executed. If Dig is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the user is holding a Power Herb, this item is consumed and Dig is executed in one turn. During the semi-invulnerable turn, the user is also immune against damage from sandstorm and hail. Dig can be disrupted by full paralysis, infatuation, or self-inflicted damage due to confusion. Some moves still work on a semi-invulnerable Pokémon: Earthquake, Magnitude, and Fissure work on a Pokémon that is digging underground. From Generation II onwards, Earthquake and Magnitude deal twice the damage when doing so. In Generation I only, Bide (except in Pokémon Stadium), Whirlwind, Roar, Swift, and Transform. From Generation VI onwards, Toxic works when used by a Poison-type Pokémon. A semi-invulnerable Pokémon can also be hit if either it or the Pokémon targeting it has No Guard or if it is under the effect of Lock-On or Mind Reader. If Mirror Move is used on a Pokémon that is currently on a semi-invulnerable turn, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Dig (or fail if it cannot). Instruct fails when used on a Pokémon whose last move was Dig. If the user is fully paralyzed during the mostly-invulnerable turn of Dig, the semi-invulnerable part will not be reset until the user switches out or fully executes Dig. In Pokémon Stadium, full paralysis will reset the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig. Mirror Move will copy Dig on either of the turns it takes to execute. Pokémon can be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Dig. Dig's power changed from 100 to 60 in Generation II. In Generation II only, due to a glitch, when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, the moves Attract, Curse, Foresight, Mean Look, Mimic, Nightmare, Spider Web, and Transform cannot hit targets in the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig, and moves cannot lower stats of targets in the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig (status moves such as String Shot will fail, and additional effects of moves such as Bubble will not activate). Pokémon can no longer be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Dig. The user cannot be targeted while underground, granting full immunity to attacks until the user surfaces. Earthquake cannot hit a target that is underground. When used inside of a cave or certain buildings, the player is transported to the last Pokémon Center they healed at, or to their own house if they never healed at a Pokémon Center. No Badge is required to use this move outside of battle. Due to an oversight in Pokémon Red and Blue, this can be used to escape from from the Sea Cottage or the Vermilion City Pokémon Fan Club. This was fixed in Pokémon Yellow. When used inside of a cave or certain buildings (including Gyms), the player is transported to the entrance they used to enter the cave or building. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Dig cannot be used outside of battle. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it is once again a field move and functions as it did in Generations II to VI. Dig once again can no longer be used outside of battle. Dig gives the user the digging status on the first turn. While the user is underground, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves except Earthquake and Magnitude. Unlike the core series games, Fissure will not hit Pokémon in the digging status. Projectiles will also pass the user as if their tile was empty. On the second turn, the user attacks the enemy in front. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. This move can be used only on a land tile; it will fail if used on any other type of tile (including the shallow water in water dungeons; while the animation will play, the move will fail regardless). Due to being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Dig cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. When used by a gigantic Pokémon in Super Mystery Dungeon, Dig hits 10 tiles away instead of 1 and also pierces through enemies and walls. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In PASV12, Scarlet mentioned that she taught her Pikachu to use Dig. However, she has not been shown using it. In Generation I, when Dig is used while standing on top of a warp panel, the spinning animation upon using the move is the same as the warp panel animation. In Generation VIII, when Dig is used and the Pokémon resurfaces, their shadow will no longer be visible.

Title: Toxic (move)

Toxic redirects here. For the Badge given by Roxie, see Badge → Toxic Badge. Toxic (Japanese: どくどく Excessive Poison) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. It is: TM06 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM27 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Toxic badly poisons the target, and has an accuracy of 85%. Toxic cannot affect Poison-type Pokémon. When a Pokémon takes damage from bad poison, the damage done is N 16ths of the Pokémon's maximum HP (rounded down, but not less than 1), where N starts at 1 and increases each time it takes damage from poison or Leech Seed (meaning it may increase twice per turn if a Pokémon is affected by both). That is, the Pokémon takes damage equal to N×⌊HPmax16⌋. After the battle ends, bad poison becomes regular poison. If a badly poisoned Pokémon is affected by Haze or switches out, the Pokémon's poison status becomes regular poison. If a badly poisoned Pokémon successfully uses Rest, it will be cured of poison, but counter (N) is not reset; if it subsequently suffers burn, Leech Seed or poison damage, that damage is still be calculated using the value of the counter (N), and the counter (N) will still increase by 1 each time (but if the Pokémon is poisoned by Toxic, the counter is reset to 1). In Pokémon Stadium, if bad poison is cured by Rest, the counter (N) is reset. Toxic and Haze no longer interact with Leech Seed. Rest now properly removes bad poison entirely (including resetting the counter). If a badly poisoned Pokémon uses Baton Pass or Heal Bell, the counter is not reset (like using Rest in Generation I). As a result, if it subsequently suffers burn or poison damage, that damage is still be calculated as N×⌊HPmax16⌋ using the value of the counter (N), and the counter (N) will still increase by 1 each time (but if the Pokémon is poisoned by Toxic, the counter is reset to 1). In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Toxic, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Toxic is now separate from other forms of recurrent damage (no longer builds from them or affects their strength). Toxic cannot affect targets with Immunity as their Ability. A Pokémon that becomes badly poisoned with Toxic will no longer have its status changed to regular poison if it switches out or the battle ends. A Pokémon that becomes badly poisoned with Toxic will now change to regular poison after the battle ends. If Toxic is used by a Poison-type Pokémon, that move will never miss, even if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Fly or Dig. If that Pokémon uses any additional moves after Toxic in the same turn, those moves will never miss either—this is known as the Toxic sure-hit glitch. Toxic can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex, Venom Drench, and Venoshock to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Toxic, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. If Toxic hits a Dynamaxed opponent in Max Raid Battles, the Dynamax Pokémon is inflicted with normal poison instead of bad poison. If Toxic hits a wild Tera Pokémon in a Tera Raid Battle, the Tera Pokémon is inflicted with normal poison, rather than bad poison. Starting in version 1.3.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Toxic sure-hit glitch was fixed: If a Poison-type Pokémon uses Toxic, moves it uses later in that same turn perform accuracy checks as normal. Toxic badly poisons the enemy. From Super Mystery Dungeon, if Toxic is used by a Poison-type Pokémon, the move will never miss, even if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Fly or Dig. This move is affected by Magic Coat. Any Pokémon that goes into the area in front of the user will be Badly Poisoned. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Toxic could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Toxic could be seen as a move used by Boss Skuntank and Pyukumuku. In Pokémon Battle Revolution, Toxic is depicted as two purple orbs spinning around each other towards the target. However, when Spinda or Carnivine use Toxic, the orbs travel in an erratic fashion. In Generation I and its remakes, Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen and Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Koga states that Toxic is a secret technique that is over 400 years old and was passed down through his family. In Generation I, Toxic is the only Poison-type move that can be taught by TM. In the German releases of Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow, when a Pokémon is badly poisoned by Toxic, the game uses the same message as when a Pokémon is inflicted with regular poison ("(Gegner) (name) ist vergiftet!"). In later generations, it is specified that the Pokémon was "badly poisoned" ("(Gegner) (name) ist schwer vergiftet!"). Toxic is the first move to lose its status as a near-universal TM, with many Pokémon no longer being compatible with the move's returning TM06 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Also, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Shroomish is able to learn Toxic by TM, but its Evolution, Breloom is not. However, Breloom can learn Toxic via Move Reminder. Ekans, Arbok, Zubat, Golbat, Grimer, and Muk cannot learn Toxic by TM in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, despite learning it by leveling up in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!.

Title: Confusion (move)

This article is about the Pokémon move. For the status condition, see Confusion (status condition). Confusion (Japanese: ねんりき Telekinesis) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. Confusion does damage and has a 10% chance of confusing the target. Confusion can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Future Sight, Kinesis, Psychic, and Teleport to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind, Kinesis, or Psychic was used in the previous turn. Confusion deals damage and may leave the target confused. Mewtwo uses Confusion as its side special move. The move acts as a grab, ignoring shields while flipping the opponent in midair. Additionally, the move is capable of reflecting projectiles, although they would not damage the initial user of the projectile in Super Smash Bros. Melee. This was fixed in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target confused. In the English dub of From Ghost to Ghost, Morty commanded his Gastly to use Confusion, which it cannot legally learn. In the original Japanese version, no attack command was given. Blaine's Mewtwo was revealed to know Confusion on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. A wild Dustox was revealed to know Confusion on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. The English name of this move is semantically dissimilar to its Japanese name, ねんりき Nenriki, which can be translated to mean mindpower. This has been known to cause some confusion when depicted in the English dub of the animated series. In the animated series, Confusion seems to have exactly the same effect as the move Psychic. A majority of the time when Confusion is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game, it causes the Defending Pokémon to be Paralyzed rather than Confused.

Title: Psychic (move)

Psychic (Japanese: サイコキネシス Psychokinesis) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. TM29 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM40 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Genesis Supernova by Mew holding Mewnium Z. Psychic does damage and has a 33.2% chance of lowering the target's Special by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 24.9%). Psychic now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is still an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 7.5%). This does not apply when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, nor in the Battle Tower. Psychic's effect no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Psychic can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Confusion, Future Sight, Kinesis, and Teleport to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Calm Mind, Confusion, or Kinesis was used in the previous turn. Psychic deals damage and may lower the enemy's Special Defense Defense by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is confused. Unlike some sync moves, this attack could not be raised to 6★ EX since its release date (of October 31, 2019) until 907 days later (on April 24, 2022). Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is paralyzed. Unlike some sync moves, this attack could not be raised to 6★ EX since its release date (of February 20, 2020) until 764 days later (on March 25, 2022). In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Psychic is the Power Card belonging to Psyduck. Immediately after an opponent reveals the effects of a Professor Oak or Trainer Battle card, the player using Psyduck may take that card and gain its effects instead of the opponent. Like all other Power Cards, this effect can only be used once per game. In the English dub of Pros and Con Artists, Grace's Medicham was told to use Psychic on several occasions, while in the Japanese version, the move was Confusion each time. In the English dub of Hail to the Chef!, Rhonda's Mr. Mime was told to use Psychic, while in the Japanese version, the move was Confusion. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer In Leaping Past Lopunny, Mira told her Alakazam to use Psychic, but the move was executed off-panel. In Exit Empoleon, Dahlia's Togekiss was mentioned to know Psychic, but it was never seen using the move. Black's Musharna, Musha, was revealed to know Psychic on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. In The Secret Of The Fighting Type Pokémon, Black told his Xatu to use Psychic, but Gold's Tyrogue finished it off before it could use the move. Psychic is the only move that has the same English name as one of the 18 types. From Generation VI to Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Psychic used an upgraded version of its original sound effect from Generations I and II.

Title: Hypnosis (move)

Hypnosis (Japanese: さいみんじゅつ Hypnotism) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. In the Generation I handheld games only, Hypnosis can affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Hypnosis, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Hypnosis has no effect on Pokémon with the Ability Insomnia or Vital Spirit. Hypnosis can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Dream Eater and Nightmare to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. In Diamond and Pearl and Pokémon Battle Revolution, Hypnosis's accuracy was changed to 70%. In Platinum, it was changed back to 60%. In link battles between Diamond and Pearl vs Platinum, HeartGold and SoulSilver, Hypnosis's accuracy is set to 60% regardless of who chose to become leader. Hypnosis can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Hypnosis, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Hypnosis has an accuracy of 70%. It inflicts drowsiness on the target, lasting five turns. Hypnosis puts the enemy to sleep. This move is affected by Magic Coat. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, if Hypnosis is used on an enemy who is already asleep, this will cause the enemy to become terrified. A terrified Pokémon will run away, and cannot use moves or items. If the enemy uses Hypnosis on one of the player's sleeping Pokémon, the Pokémon will become its puppet. While in the puppet status, the Pokémon will randomly attack its allies or use items. The player cannot switch to the Pokémon affected with this status. If the leader has the puppet status, the player won't be able to do anything until it wears off. The puppet status will last until the sleep status wears off. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Hypnosis could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Hypnosis could be seen as a move used by Boss Poliwag, Poliwhirl, Gastly, Drowzee and Hypno In Round One - Begin!, Mandi ordered his Exeggutor to use Hypnosis, but it was unable to execute the order due to being in pain by Ash's Krabby's Vise Grip. In At Liberty on Liberty Garden, a Team Plasma Grunt's Gothitelle was revealed to know Hypnosis, but the move was executed off-panel. In addition, Gothitelle was unable to learn Hypnosis until Generation VIII. Hypnosis is the only 60 accuracy move, not counting Shadow Panic and Shadow End. Hypnosis is the only move whose accuracy changed between games of the same generation, excluding changes in Pokémon Legends: Arceus.

Title: Meditate (move)

Meditate (Japanese: ヨガのポーズ Yoga Pose) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. Meditate increases the user's Attack by one stage. Meditate can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Meditate, the user's Attack stat rises another stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Meditate could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Meditate could be seen as a move used by Boss Meditite. In the English dub of A Meditite Fight!, Shauna commanded her Meditite to use Meditate. In the original version, it was commanded to use Calm Mind instead. An unused animation of Meditate exists in the code of Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl; the animation and sound effect differ from previous games.

Title: Agility (move)

This article is about the move Agility. For the field move, see Field Move (Ranger). Agility (Japanese: こうそくいどう High-speed Movement) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. Agility can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Double Team was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and using it will cause Baton Pass and Electro Ball to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Agility, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Agility boosts the Travel Speed of the user and teammates in the same room by one stage. In Super Smash Bros. Melee and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Agility is Pichu's up special. It is similar to Pikachu's Quick Attack in that it is a fast dash that can be done in two different directions, but unlike Quick Attack, it does not deal damage to the opponent, rather, it damages Pichu. Pichu cannot legitimately learn Agility in the main games. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Agility could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Agility could be seen as a move used by Boss Zebstrika. In the English dub of The Ancient Puzzle of Pokémopolis, Brock commanded his Vulpix to use Agility, which it could not legitimately learn until Generation VIII. In the original Japanese version, Brock instead commanded Vulpix to use Quick Attack. In the English dub of Power Play!, Gary told his Umbreon to use Agility, which it is incapable of learning legitimately. In the original Japanese version, Umbreon was just told to use its footwork to dodge an attack. In the English dub of Trouble's Brewing, Tamao told her Umbreon to use Agility, which it is incapable of learning legitimately. In the original Japanese version, Tamao instead commanded Umbreon to use Quick Attack. Prior to Generation V, Shedinja is able to know Agility by leveling up if Nincada is allowed to evolve only at level 38, as Ninjask learns this move at this level.

Title: Quick Attack (move)

Quick Attack (Japanese: でんこうせっか Lightning Speed) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Quick Attack inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. If the user is put to sleep or frozen during the turn that Quick Attack is (or attempts to be) used, its increased priority will not be reset during the sleep or freeze. Subsequently, it can only be reset on the turn after the user wakes up or is defrosted, or if the user switches out. Quick Attack's increased priority will no longer carry over to sleeping or frozen Pokémon; instead, the priority at which a sleeping or frozen Pokémon acts depends on the move it selects each turn. Quick Attack can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Double Team was used in the previous turn. Like all other moves that previously possessed priority, Quick Attack causes the user to dash forward to make damaging contact with the target (although terrain may interfere with doing so). During the dash, the user is intangible and will ignore projectiles and hazards that they pass through. Pikachu uses Quick Attack as its up special. Pikachu dashes quickly, and can do so in two different directions, provided the angle difference is large enough. In the original Super Smash Bros., this move did no damage. This is a Bug-type move when used by Ingo (Special Costume) & Accelgor due to their passive skill Bug Shift. This is a Fairy-type move when used by Lisia (New Year's 2023) & Rapidash due to their passive skill Fairy Shift. This buddy move was known as B Quick Attack prior to version 2.38.0. In the English dub of The Fourth Round Rumble, Jeanette Fisher commanded her Scyther to use Quick Attack. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, Jeanette instead commanded Scyther to use Swift. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Wanted: Pikachu!, Red's Pikachu, Pika, was revealed to know Quick Attack by Red's Pokédex. In Scizor Defends, Y's Sylveon, Veevee, was mentioned to know Quick Attack, but the move was used off-panel. Joey's Rattata was revealed to know Quick Attack on the official website, but he has never been shown using the move. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom Quick Attack is often involved in the F.E.A.R strategy. Ash's Pidgeotto's first usage of Quick Attack resembled the move Brave Bird introduced later. Quick Attack is the only increased priority move introduced in Generation I. Since Generation IV, Quick Attack has had the same description as Aqua Jet.

Title: Rage (move)

Rage (Japanese: いかり Rage) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM20 in Generation I. Rage deals damage and it will not be possible for the player to do anything other than let the user continue to use Rage, and it will not stop using Rage until it faints or the battle ends. Every time the user is damaged by an attack or is targeted by Disable, its rage will build, causing its Attack stat to increase by one stage. Being hit by a multi-hit move will raise the user's Attack once for each hit. Rage will use 1 PP when selected, but not use any PP on any subsequent turns. The duration of Rage will be paused but not disrupted by anything, including sleep, freeze, binding, flinching, or if the user hurts itself due to confusion. If a change in accuracy or evasion affects Rage's accuracy, the decrease in accuracy will be reapplied each turn, until reaching a minimum of 0.4%. If Rage misses due to the 99.6% accuracy bug of 100%-accuracy moves when there are no other accuracy or evasion modifiers in effect, or in case said modifiers cancel each other, its accuracy will be unaffected. If Rage misses during the turn it is selected, its secondary effects will not activate. Rage will not attempt to increase the user's Attack if it has reached a stage of +6, and will not successfully increase the user's Attack if it has reached a value of 999. In Pokémon Stadium, Rage's accuracy does not drop when it misses. Disable causes Rage to build only when Disable hits. Rage is no longer a continuous move and will not automatically last until the end of the battle. When Rage is used consecutively, it will consume PP each turn, and the damage it deals is multiplied by a separate Rage counter; this Rage counter starts at 1 and increases by one each time the user of Rage is damaged by an attack (up to a maximum of 255), and is reset when the user ceases to use Rage (but not when Rage misses). Using an item will reset the Rage counter. The accuracy-changing effects present in Generation I no longer apply, and missing does not change the accuracy of Rage. When Rage is used consecutively, the user's Attack stat now increases by one stage each time it is damaged by an attack instead. A Pokémon's rage will now build even if the initial use of Rage misses or fails. Rage can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Leer, Scary Face, and Thrash to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. A Pokémon's rage will now only start to build after it successfully used Rage. In Generation IV only, due to a glitch, if a Pokémon that is under the effect of Rage selects a move other than Rage, it removes all volatile status conditions except Rage (e.g. confusion, transform, substitute, etc.). If transform is removed this way, the transformed Pokémon gets to keep its transformed moveset permanently. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Rage is a status move which gives the user the Enraged status condition. This status boosts the user's Attack stat by one stage every time it takes damage and lasts for 5-10 turns. From Gates to Infinity onward, Rage now inflicts damage while also giving itself the Enraged status condition. As with the previous games, the Enraged status condition raises the user's Attack by one stage whenever it takes damage. This status condition lasts for 100 turns in Gates to Infinity, and only 11 turns in Super Mystery Dungeon. In the English dub of Charizard Chills, Ash's Charizard's Dragon Rage was incorrectly referred to as Rage. The Lake of Rage is named after this move, except in French and German. In French, the Lake of Rage is named after Outrage (Colère) instead. In German, it is not named after a specific move. The only move with Zorn- in its German name is Fury Cutter (Zornklinge). Prior to Generation VI, if the last opposing Pokémon successfully used Self-Destruct or Explosion on a target that had used Rage and the target survived, Rage would build despite it being the end of the battle.

Title: Teleport (move)

This article is about the move Teleport. For the field move, see Field Move (Ranger). Teleport (Japanese: テレポート Teleport) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM30 in Generation I and TM04 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. In wild battles, the user flees and the battle ends. In Trainer battles, Teleport always fails. If the user's level is less than the opponent's level, there is a chance that Teleport will fail, between approximately 10% and 25%, depending on the levels of the two Pokémon. The chance of failure typically increases the higher the target's level is than the user's. Specifically, the chance of failure is the following. FailureChance=⌊Levelopponent4⌋Levelopponent+Leveluser+1 If Teleport is used by the player's Pokémon, it can still fail because of the opponent's level, but this no longer applies to wild Pokémon using Teleport due to a bug. Teleport will fail if the user is trapped by a trapping move (except binding moves), or if used by an opposing NPC. In this generation only, Teleport fails in battles with Pokémon encountered as traps in the Team Rocket's Hideout, the GS Ball Celebi, the Tin Tower Suicune (in Crystal), and the scripted Red Gyarados. Teleport fails if used in a wild battle that is not a Single Battle. Teleport can no longer fail due to the user's level being less than the opponent's level. Teleport will now fail if the user is trapped by any trapping move (including Ingrain and binding moves) or Ability. If the user is holding a Smoke Ball, Teleport will succeed regardless of trapping moves and Abilities. In Pokémon Colosseum, there are no wild encounters, so Teleport always fails. In Pokémon XD, it can successfully be used in wild encounters at Poké Spots. Teleport can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Confusion, Double Team, Kinesis, or Psychic was used in the previous turn. Teleport will succeed regardless of Ingrain. If the user is owned by a Trainer and holding a Smoke Ball, Teleport will succeed regardless of trapping moves and Abilities; if the user is a wild Pokémon, Teleport will fail if the user is affected by a trapping move or Ability, even if it is holding a Smoke Ball. If the user is holding a Smoke Ball, Teleport will succeed regardless of trapping moves and Abilities. Teleport always fails in battles during trials. SOS Battles are considered Single Battles as long as there is only a single opponent. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Teleport, the user regains all of its HP. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Teleport switches the user out. It has -6 priority. Teleport fails if the user is the only Pokémon in the party that is able to battle. Teleport retains its effect from Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, and it succeeds regardless of whether the user is trapped. It only ends a battle if used by a wild Pokémon. From Generations I to VI, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, using Teleport outdoors warps the player to the last visited Pokémon Center, or to their own house if they have never visited a Pokémon Center. From Generation IV onwards, visiting one's own house sets it as the current Teleport location. In Generation I, the player must heal their Pokémon at the counter for it to count as a visit. In subsequent generations, the player only needs to enter the location. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver: When the Mystery Egg is received from Mr. Pokémon, the last Pokémon Center used is set to Cherrygrove City. This prevents the player from skipping the first battle against the rival by blacking out or using Teleport and going directly to the player's home (although Teleport is not yet legitimately available at this point in the game). When the player leaves the S.S. Aqua and enters Vermilion City or Olivine City, the last Pokémon Center used is set to that city. Teleport can only be used outside, with the same restrictions as Fly. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, unlike Fly, Teleport can teleport the player between regions. In Generation IV only, Teleport cannot be used in towns or cities (except the Safari Zone Gate), at Mt. Silver, or at the Pokéathlon Dome. Teleport warps the user to somewhere else on the floor. Mewtwo uses Teleport as its up special move. Mewtwo vanishes, then reappears in the direction the player inputs. Teleport warps the user to a random location on the battlefield. The user can choose which direction to perform it in, but this does not affect the randomly chosen location. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Teleport could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Teleport could be seen as a move used by Boss Abra, Cosmog and Cosmoem. In Lights, Camera, Quack-tion, Cleavon Schpielbunk mentioned how the Abra that had been supposed to star in his newest movie had teleported away after its co-star, Wigglytuff, had proved too much of a prima-donna. Teleport is the only move whose priority changed between games of the same generation. Its change, from 0 to -6, was the largest single priority decrease of any move.

Title: Night Shade (move)

Night Shade (Japanese: ナイトヘッド Night Head) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM042 Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Prior to Generation II, it was the signature move of Gastly's evolutionary line. Night Shade inflicts damage equal to the user's level. Although Night Shade is a Ghost-type move, its type does not alter the amount of damage it inflicts. Night Shade is not affected by type immunities, so it can hit both Normal-type and Psychic-type Pokémon, both of which have immunities to Ghost-type moves in Generation I. Night Shade is now affected by type immunities; therefore, it cannot usually affect Normal-type Pokémon (but it can affect Psychic-type Pokémon, who are no longer immune to Ghost-type moves). Night Shade deals damage equal to the user's level. In Pokémon GO, Night Shade is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017.

Title: Mimic (move)

Mimic (Japanese: ものまね Mimic) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Sudowoodo, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM31 in Generation I and TM125 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Mimic copies a move from the target. The user will retain the copied move in Mimic's place, until the user faints or is switched out, or the battle ends. The user's summary remains unaffected by this, still displaying original moves. In battles against a non-player character or wild Pokémon, Mimic allows the user to see the target's moveset and select one of its moves to copy. However, in link battles as well as the Japanese and English Pokémon Stadium games, Mimic does not display the target's moveset; it copies one of the target's moves at random. Unlike in later generations, Mimic can copy all selectable moves, including the opponent's Mimic, Transform, and Metronome, as well as any move that the user already knows. However, Mimic can't copy Struggle because it is only a normally unselectable move. In this generation only, the copied move will use Mimic's PP (therefore, Mimic itself loses PP whenever a move copied by Mimic is used). If a Pokémon uses Mimic as a result of Mirror Move or Metronome, then the copied move will use the PP of the move that called it. If the player uses any PP-healing items, they will heal up to Mimic's (or Mirror Move's, or Metronome's) maximum PP. Due to an oversight in this generation only, moves copied by Mimic display an incorrect maximum PP value. The maximum PP displayed is taken from the copied move, instead of displaying Mimic's maximum PP. If a Pokémon uses Mimic which was acquired from Transform (or if a Pokémon uses Mimic as a result of Mirror Move or Metronome acquired from Transform), then the 5 PP that is given by Transform will be used for the copied move as well, instead of using the Pokémon's own PP. Due to an oversight in this generation only, if a Pokémon that used Mimic levels up in battle and learns a new move, Mimic's effect is reverted. The move copied by Mimic is lost, and Mimic will be usable again. If Mimic copies a binding move, and if the target switches out when its PP is 0 and before its duration is over, the current PP of the move will roll over to 63 and full PP Ups will be applied to it. This increased PP value can be used normally (and, as usual, other moves copied by Mimic will also use this PP value), and the user will retain the full PP Ups indefinitely. However, if the move's PP is healed (for instance, by using a PP-healing item or a Pokémon Center), then it will return to its legitimate maximum value (with full PP Ups). Mimic now copies the target's last used move. Using a move copied by Mimic does not deduct any PP from Mimic itself anymore. A move copied by Mimic will have 5 PP, even if a PP Up or PP Max is used on Mimic to increase its PP. It now fails to copy the moves Sketch, Transform, Struggle, Metronome, or any move the user already knows. Mimic now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the opponent is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Mimic can now be used to copy Transform, which could cause a glitch in early copies of the Japanese Pokémon Diamond and Pearl. To trigger the glitch, a Pokémon must use Mimic to copy and use Transform, then faint. If the Mimic-using Pokémon's owner wins the battle, all moves gained from the use of Transform are retained after the battle. It copies Me First, not the move called by Me First. The mimicked move now has the max PP as opposed to 5. Mimic is no longer able to copy Transform. A Rayquaza that mimics Dragon Ascent will not trigger the requirement for Mega Evolution. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Mimic, the user's accuracy is raised by one stage. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, after Mimic is fully executed, the user immediately uses the last move that the target used. Mimic cannot copy Endure, Protect, or Detect; if the target used one of these as its last move, the last copiable move will be used instead; if the last move used by the target was Nihil Light, the user will use Core Enforcer instead. If the target is an object such as a Mega Crystal or has not used a copiable move, Mimic cannot be selected. Using Mimic as a Plus Move causes the copied move to be used as a Plus Move. Two Pokémon can evolve when they know Mimic: Bonsly into Sudowoodo and Mime Jr. into Mr. Mime. Mimic targets the enemy in front, copying the last move they used. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, Mimic will immediately use the enemy's last used move against the enemy. From Super Mystery Dungeon onwards, Mimic instead copies the enemy's last used move for the duration of the dungeon floor. The copied move can then be used from the next turn. Not all moves can be copied. In the Rescue Team series, Mimic cannot copy itself, Encore, Sketch or a move that calls other moves (except Sleep Talk and Snatch). In the Explorers series, the move can now copy Nature Power and Metronome, as well as Me First. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks.

Title: Screech (move)

Screech (Japanese: いやなおと Unpleasant Tone) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM16 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Screech decreases the target's Defense stat by two stat stages. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Screech, the user's Attack stat rises by one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Screech. Screech cannot affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Screech, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Screech no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Screech can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Screech lowers the target's Defense. This reduces the target's their Defense stat to ¼ of the original value. This reduction is separate from stat stages and can be applied multiple times, up to 1/128. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. As of Gates to Infinity, Screech reduces Defense to ½ the value. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Screech could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Screech could be seen as a move used by opposing Kricketune. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the target's Defense. Screech is one of a few moves with its accuracy being different between the core series (85%) and Pokémon Masters EX (100%). Prior to Generation V, Shedinja is able to know Screech by leveling up if Nincada is allowed to evolve only at level 20, as Ninjask learns this move at this level.

Title: Double Team (move)

If you were looking for the Double Battling Trainer class, see Double Team (Trainer class). Double Team (Japanese: かげぶんしん Shadow Divide) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM32 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl., as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Double Team increases the user's evasion by one stage. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Double Team, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Double Team can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Agility, Quick Attack, and Teleport to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. As the evasion and accuracy stats do not exist in Z-A, Double Team instead causes the user to become intangible at the spot where it was used, which causes all attacks to harmlessly bypass the user and makes it untargetable by further moves for its duration. Compared to Protect and Detect, Double Team's intangibility means that Plus Moves will not harm a Double Team user but will partially ignore protection. To compensate, Double Team has a noticeable wind-up before its effect is triggered in contrast to the instant usage of Protect and Detect. Double Team raises the raises the user's evasiveness by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Raises the user's evasiveness. This buddy move was known as B Double Team prior to version 2.38.0. Double Team is Lucario's down Special move. When Lucario uses Double Team, it creates copies of itself for its opponent to attack, while the real Lucario sneaks up from behind to counterattack. In Clefairy and the Moon Stone, Brock told his Zubat to use Double Team. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, Brock told Zubat to use Whirlwind instead. In the preview for the unaired AG101, a Whiscash is seen using Double Team. In A Rush of Ninja Wisdom!, Nihei's Venusaur was mentioned to know Double Team. This move's Japanese name, かげぶんしん kage bunshin, is a reference to a ninja technique ubiquitous in manga, anime, and other fiction commonly known in English as shadow clone. A popular example of this is the Naruto series, where the main character, Naruto Uzumaki, has used Kage Bunshin no Jutsu throughout the series as one of his signature ninja techniques. The move's description in the Stadium games erroneously states that it lowers the opponent's accuracy. In Super Smash Bros, one of Greninja's victory poses has it use Double Team.

Title: Recover (move)

Recover (Japanese: じこさいせい Self-regeneration) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Recover restores up to 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded down, and has 20 PP. In the Generation I core series only, Recover will fail if the difference between the user's maximum HP and current HP leaves a remainder of 255 when divided by 256 (such as 255 or 511). This was fixed in Pokémon Stadium and all future generations. Recover now restores 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded up. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Recover, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Recover restores a portion of the user's HP, with the percentage (of the user's maximum HP) varying each game. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Recover could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Recover could be seen as a move used by Boss Mewtwo, Arceus, and Cryogonal. Mewtwo has been confirmed to know Recover. However, it has only been used in the radio drama The Birth of Mewtwo, so it has never been seen using it. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Milotic was revealed to know Recover by Emerald's Pokédex.

Title: Harden (move)

Harden (Japanese: かたくなる Stiffen) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Harden increases the user's Defense stat by one stage. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Harden, the user's Defense rises by another stage. Harden can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Double-Edge, Protect, Rollout, Tackle, and Take Down to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. In the minigame "Rock Harden" from Pokémon Stadium, the player and non-player characters are either Metapod or Kakuna. They are required to use Harden at the right times to avoid being hurt by falling rocks. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Harden could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Harden could be seen as a move used by opposing Silcoon, Cascoon, and Seedot. A wild Cascoon and Silcoon were revealed to know Harden on the official website, but they were never shown using the move.

Title: Minimize (move)

Minimize (Japanese: ちいさくなる Shrink) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. In Generations I and II, the user's sprite is replaced by a tiny, generic image if this move raises the user's evasion successfully. In Generation I only, it is only replaced by the tiny generic image if the battle animations are active. If a Pokémon uses Transform on a minimized target, the user copies the target's regular sprite (rather than the tiny sprite). Similarly, if a minimized Pokémon uses Transform, its own tiny sprite is replaced by the target's regular sprite. If a Pokémon's sprite has disappeared because it used Acid Armor, using Minimize will make it visible again as the tiny generic image. If a Pokémon undergoes Dynamax after using Minimize, then boosted moves will not bypass accuracy and evasion. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Minimize, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Specific moves will hit with double power (Generation IV) or have their damage doubled (Generations II, III, and V onward) against targets that have used Minimize at least once. Additionally, from Generation VI onward, these moves also bypass accuracy and evasion checks in this case. If a Pokémon undergoes Dynamax after using Minimize, these moves will revert to dealing their usual damage. This effect cannot be passed with Baton Pass. Minimize raises the user's evasiveness. Evasiveness is raised by one stage in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series. From Gates to Infinity onward, Minimize raises the user's evasiveness by two stages. Minimize appears as one of Chandelure's Pokémon moves. Chandelure temporarily shrinks in size, rendering it immune to attacks until it reverts. While shrunken, Chandelure can also move to reposition itself to keep distance from the opponent. In Generation I games, if the player used Minimize, then looked at the stats of a Pokémon in their party and then exited the menu, the opponent's Pokémon sprite would change to a glitchy version of the Pokémon that was just viewed. Minimize is one of three moves that have been used in a completed series of the animated series, but not been seen in the English dub. The other two are Conversion and Ion Deluge.

Title: Smokescreen (move)

Smokescreen (Japanese: えんまく Smokescreen), formatted as SmokeScreen prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Smokescreen lowers the target's accuracy stat by one stage. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Smokescreen, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Smokescreen can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Smog was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Smokescreen, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Sqaud series, Smokescreen inflicts the Whiffer status condition on the enemy. Under the Whiffer status, the opposing Pokémon will always miss with any attack; even moves like Aerial Ace will miss, although the regular attack will still hit if the user has the Sure-Hit Attacker IQ skill. This move is affected by Magic Coat. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Smokescreen instead decreases the target's accuracy by one stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Smokescreen could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Smokescreen could be seen as a move used by Boss Charmeleon. In Smash Tour, occasionally a wild Koffing can appear. When it does, it will use Smokescreen to cover the entire board, making almost everything impossible to see until it wears off.

Title: Confuse Ray (move)

Confuse Ray redirects here. For the Festival Plaza facility, see Festival Plaza → Haunted houses. Confuse Ray (Japanese: あやしいひかり Eerie Light) is a non-damaging Ghost-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM017 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Confuse Ray, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Confuse Ray could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Confuse Ray could be seen as a move used by Boss Ninetales, Gengar, Starmie, Chinchou, Lanturn, Xatu, and Ampharos. In A Family That Battles Together Stays Together!, Lola told her Mantine to use Confuse Ray, but it was unable to use the move due to being caught in a Bind by Brock's Onix. Confuse Ray is the only Ghost-type move capable of inflicting confusion.

Title: Withdraw (move)

Withdraw redirects here. For the act of switching Pokémon in battle, see Recall. Withdraw (Japanese: からにこもる Withdraw into Shell) is a non-damaging Water-type move introduced in Generation I. Withdraw increases the user's Defense by one stage. If powered up by a Waterium Z into Z-Withdraw, the user's Defense stat rises by another stage. Withdraw can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Withdraw raises the user's Defense by one stage. This move is affected by Snatch. Withdraw is Squirtle's Side Special move. It hides into its shell and slides around the stage, damaging opponents it collides with. If jumped on, Squirtle will end up stuck on its back. Withdraw in Super Smash Bros. being a spinning attack rather than a defensive move makes it similar to Squirtle's usage of Rapid Spin in Pokémon animated media. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Withdraw could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Withdraw could be seen as a move used by Boss Shellder, Cloyster, and Tirtouga. In Problematic Probopass and Mad Magnezone II, Diamond's Torterra, Tru, was revealed to know Withdraw, but the move was used off-panel. Diamond's Turtwig, Tru, was revealed to know Withdraw on the official web site, but he was never shown using the move.

Title: Defense Curl (move)

Defense Curl (Japanese: まるくなる Curl Up) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM40 in Generation II. Defense Curl increases the user's Defense by 1 stage. Defense Curl also doubles the power of the user's Rollout and Ice Ball as long as the user remains in battle. This effect does not stack with itself and cannot be Baton Passed. Defense Curl can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Rollout and Tackle to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Ice Ball and Rollout to give the user an extra three appeal points if they are used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Defense Curl, the user's accuracy is raised by one stage. Defense Curl raises the user's Defense by one stage. The power of Rollout and Ice Ball will be doubled if Defense Curl was the user's most recently used move. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Defense Curl could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Defense Curl could be seen as a move used by Boss Geodude. In Buddy, Hop mentioned that his Wooloo knows Defense Curl, but it hasn't been seen using the move. In The Escape, Green's Jigglypuff, Jiggly, was revealed to know Defense Curl by her Pokédex.

Title: Barrier (move)

Barrier (Japanese: バリアー Barrier) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. Barrier increases the user's Defense by two stages. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Barrier, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Barrier could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Barrier could be seen as a move used by Boss Mr. Mime and Mew. In Red, Green, and Blue, Lance has a Dragonite with this move, although Dragonite cannot legitimately have the move in any of the Generation I games. A Dragonite with Barrier was distributed as a participation gift in the Kanto Classic Wi-Fi tournament as a reference to this Dragonite. Despite having distinct effects in the games, Reflect, Light Screen, Barrier, Protect, and Safeguard are often depicted in the animated series seemingly sharing the same effect that Protect has in the games (protecting the user from most effects of moves).

Title: Light Screen (move)

Light Screen (Japanese: ひかりのかべ Light Wall) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. TM16 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. TM06 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Light Screen doubles the user's Special when the opponent damages the user with a special move. Light Screen will fail if the user is already under its effect. The effect of Light Screen is ignored by critical hits. If Light Screen causes the user's special to reach 1024 or higher at any time during battle calculations, it will be reduced mod 1024. The effects of Light Screen can be lifted by Haze. Light Screen now remains in effect for 5 turns and will double the Special Defense of any Pokémon on the user's side of the field instead. Haze can no longer lift the effects of Light Screen. Instead of doubling the Special Defense of affected Pokémon, Light Screen now technically halves the damage done to them by special moves; it still does not reduce damage done by moves that deal direct damage. If multiple Pokémon are present on the user's side of the field, all of them are protected by Light Screen, but special damage is only reduced by a third rather than half. Light Screen is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if an opponent uses Brick Break or Shadow Shed on it (even if it is immune to Brick Break due to being Ghost-type), unless it is protected from the move or the move misses. Light Screen can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. Light Screen is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if a Pokémon uses Brick Break or Defog on its ally (even if it is immune to Brick Break due to being Ghost-type), unless it is protected from the move or the move misses. If Light Clay is held when Light Screen is used, it will extend the duration of Light Screen from 5 to 8 turns. Light Screen is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if it is hit by Brick Break, Defog, Psychic Fangs, or Raging Bull, or if a Pokémon with Screen Cleaner is sent out. Light Screen is not removed if the target is immune to the move (e.g. a Ghost-type Pokémon targeted by Brick Break). Pokémon with the Ability Infiltrator ignore the effects of Light Screen when attacking. Unlike Generations III and IV, Light Screen now always reduces damage by (roughly) a third rather than a half (specifically, with a multiplier of 2703/4096 in Generation V, or 2732/4096 in Generation VI onward) in Double Battles and Triple Battles, regardless of how many Pokémon on a given side are being protected by it. In Generation VII, Battle Royals also use this multiplier. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Light Screen will always reduce damage by (roughly) a third, specifically, applying a multiplier of 0.66. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Light Screen, the user's Special Defense stat rises by one stage. Using Glitzy Glow will set up Light Screen on the user's side of the field. The user (and party from Gates to Infinity) gains the Light Screen status condition, halving damage from special moves. This lasts for 11-12 / 21 turns. The status can be ended early if the Pokémon is hit with Brick Break. Defog will also end the status early if used by an enemy in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Light Screen has a base PP of 20. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Light Screen could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Light Screen could be seen as a move used by Boss Duosion and Reuniclus. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Reduces special damage done to the allied field of play. Light Screen displays animation when it ends on its own in Pokémon Battle Revolution. Despite having distinct effects in the games, Reflect, Light Screen, Barrier, Protect, and Safeguard are often depicted in the animated series seemingly sharing the same effect that Protect has in the games (protecting the user from most the effect of moves).

Title: Haze (move)

Haze (Japanese: くろいきり Black Mist) is a non-damaging Ice-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM174 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Haze resets the stat stages of both active Pokémon to 0 and removes the stat reductions due to burns and paralysis. It also lifts the effects of Focus Energy and Dire Hit, Mist and Guard Spec., X Accuracy, Leech Seed, Disable, Reflect and Light Screen from both sides of the field. Additionally, Haze cures confusion and turns bad poison into regular poison for both active Pokémon, and also removes any non-volatile status condition from the opponent. Haze does not remove any non-volatile status ailments that the user has, does not change the generic Minimize graphic back to the Pokémon's regular image, and does not reset either Pokémon's current type, moves, or species. If a frozen or sleeping opponent has its status removed via Haze, it cannot make a move in the same turn. If a frozen Pokémon that has not recharged from Hyper Beam has its freeze status eliminated via Haze, it will remain unable to attack, switch, or do anything else, and nothing will then be able to change this until it faints. In Stadium, Haze eliminates any major status ailments that the user has. Haze now only resets the stat stages of all active Pokémon on the field to 0. It no longer lifts any effects (such as Focus Energy). Haze now also lifts the effects of Focus Energy and Dire Hit from both sides of the field. The effects of Focus Energy and Dire Hit are once again unaffected by Haze. If powered up by Icium Z into Z-Haze, the user regains all of its HP. Haze removes all stat changes (including the unique stat multipliers from Charm, Aurora Beam, Memento and Screech). Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Returns raised stats of all opposing sync pairs to normal. In the English dub of The Evolution Solution, James told his Weezing to use Haze. In the original Japanese version, he just told Weezing to counterattack instead, not specifying a move. Agatha's Arbok was revealed to know Haze on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. It appears to be a stat-resetting counterpart to Mist. They have the same type, PP, and Z-Move effect. Moreover, their Japanese names are very similar. They are also usually learned at the same level.

Title: Reflect (move)

Reflect (Japanese: リフレクター Reflector) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. TM33 in Generation I, from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM09 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Reflect doubles the user's Defense when the opponent damages the user with a physical move. Reflect will fail if the user is already under its effect. The effect of Reflect is ignored by self-inflicted confusion damage and critical hits. If Reflect causes the user's defense to reach 1024 or higher at any time during battle calculations, it will be reduced mod 1024. If the opponent has Reflect, this lowers the user's confusion damage. Reflect now remains in effect for five turns and will double the Defense of any Pokémon on the user's side of the field instead. Confusion damage is now affected by the user's Reflect and not the opponent's. Instead of doubling the Defense of affected Pokémon, Reflect now technically halves the damage done to them by physical moves; it still does not reduce damage done by moves that deal direct damage. If multiple Pokémon are present on the user's side of the field, all of them are protected by Reflect, but physical damage is only reduced by a third rather than half. Reflect is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if an opponent uses Brick Break or Shadow Shed on it (even if it is immune to Brick Break due to being Ghost-type), unless it is protected from the move or the move misses. Reflect can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. Reflect is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if a Pokémon uses Brick Break or Defog on its partner (even if it is immune to Brick Break due to being Ghost-type), unless it is protected from the move or the move misses. If Light Clay is held when Reflect is used, it will extend the duration of Reflect from 5 to 8 turns. Reflect is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if it is hit by Brick Break, Defog, Psychic Fangs, or Raging Bull, or if a Pokémon with Screen Cleaner is sent out. Reflect is not removed if the target is immune to the move (e.g. a Ghost-type Pokémon targeted by Brick Break). Pokémon with the Ability Infiltrator ignore the effects of Reflect when attacking. Unlike Generations III and IV, Reflect now always reduces damage by (roughly) a third rather than a half (specifically, with a multiplier of 2703/4096 in Generation V, or 2732/4096 in Generation VI onward) in Double Battles and Triple Battles, regardless of how many Pokémon on a given side are being protected by it. In Generation VII, Battle Royals also use this multiplier. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Reflect will always reduce damage by (roughly) a third, specifically, applying a multiplier of 0.66. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Reflect, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Using Baddy Bad will set up Reflect on the user's side of the field. The user gains Reflect status condition, halving damage from physical moves, including other attacks that use the Attack stat, such as the regular A attack or Stick. The status lasts for 11-12 / 21 turns. The status can be ended early if the Pokémon is hit by Brick Break. Defog will also end the status early if used by an enemy in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Reflect has a base PP of 20. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Reflect could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Reflect could be seen as a move used by Boss Alakazam and Solosis. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Reduces physical damage done to the allied field of play. In at least the first two generations, the message that appears when this move is used was changed in the English localization. Japanese: <user>は だげきこうげきに つよくなった！ <user> became stronger against damaging attacks! Japanese: <user>は リフレクターで だげきこうげきに つよくなった！ <user>'s Reflector made it stronger against damaging attacks! Since Reflect regained its status as TM move in Generation III onwards, several Generation I Pokémon are unable to learn Reflect anymore via TM33, unlike in Generation I games. This makes Reflect a TM move with the highest number of Pokémon compatibility lost between any generations. Reflect displays animation when it ends on its own in Pokémon Battle Revolution. In Generation II games, when performing a modified version of the Celebi Egg glitch, if the both parents have Reflect in their fourth attack slot, the Pokémon produced will be holding a Teru-sama (in Gold and Silver Versions) or a GS Ball (in Crystal Version). If the Teru-sama is traded to Crystal, it becomes a GS Ball. When viewed in Pokémon Stadium 2, the Teru-sama shows up as a GS Ball. Despite having distinct effects in the games, Reflect, Light Screen, Barrier, Protect, and Safeguard are often depicted in the animated series seemingly sharing the same effect that Protect has in the games (protecting the user from most the effect of moves).

Title: Focus Energy (move)

Focus Energy (Japanese: きあいだめ Fighting Spirit Improvement) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TR13 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. In the Generation I handheld games only, Focus Energy permanently divides the user's probability of landing a critical hit by 4; while it was intended to multiply it by 4, the move works incorrectly in these games. The effect of Focus Energy cannot stack, and it will fail if the user is already under its effect. In Pokémon Stadium, the probability of landing a critical hit uses a different formula to the handheld games. Using Focus Energy changes the critical hit formula to make the user substantially more likely to land a critical hit (more than twice as likely as not using it, although the exact increase depends on the user's base Speed). This increase is so substantial that in Pokémon Stadium, using a move with a high critical hit ratio while under the effect of Focus Energy always results in the user having the maximum 255/256 (~99.6%) chance of landing a critical hit. Focus Energy now permanently increases the user's critical hit ratio by one stage. This effect can be transferred by Baton Pass. Focus Energy now increases the user's critical hit ratio by two stages instead of one. In Generation IV only, Haze lifts the effects of Focus Energy. Focus Energy can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Arm Thrust, Bone Rush, Brick Break, Cross Chop, Double-Edge, DynamicPunch, Focus Punch, Headbutt, Karate Chop, Mega Kick, Mega Punch, Sky Uppercut, Take Down, and Triple Kick to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. The effect of Focus Energy can now be copied by Psych Up, Transform or Costar. Focus Energy can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Aeroblast, Attack Order, Blaze Kick, Cross Poison, Drill Run, Karate Chop, Leaf Blade, Night Slash, Poison Tail, Psycho Cut, Shadow Claw, Spacial Rend and Stone Edge) to gain extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Focus Energy, the user's accuracy is raised by one stage. Focus Energy now also fails if the user is already under the effects of Dragon Cheer. The user gains the Focus Energy status condition which raises the user's critical hit ratio. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, all moves will be a critical hit by increasing the user's critical hit ratio to 999% (unless prevented by Battle Armor, Shell Armor or Lucky Chant), and the status condition lasts for 3-6 turns. From Gates to Infinity, Focus Energy raises the critical hit ratio to 80%, and the condition lasts for 3 turns. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Focus Energy could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Focus Energy could be seen as a move used by Boss Rattata, Nidoran♂, Nidoking, Machop, Watchog, Timburr, and Bouffalant.

Title: Bide (move)

Bide (Japanese: がまん Perseverance) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM34 in Generation I. After Bide is selected, the user will be unable to select a move for an idling period of 2-3 turns (chosen randomly), though it will still be able to switch out during the move's effect. Afterwards, Bide will do damage equal to twice the damage received during the idling period. If the user is not directly attacked during the biding period, it will fail on the turn it would have released. Although Bide is a Normal-type move, type has no effect on the calculated damage inflicted by this attack, so Bide deals neutral damage on Rock and Ghost types and does not receive the same-type attack bonus. Bide bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, even during the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. The damage received during the period is counted as equal to the last amount of damage done. The last amount of damage done will include crash damage, an opponent's self-inflicted confusion damage, and the full damage absorbed by a substitute. Additionally, if the opponent does not use an attack that misses, the last amount of damage done will not be reset, effectively resulting in damage done during the previous turn also being counted as damage done during that turn. Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Bide. In Stadium, a move can be selected during each of Bide's idling turns. Bide will miss against any Pokémon that is in the middle of Dig, Fly, or a similar semi-invulnerable state. Bide no longer bypasses accuracy checks, and has an accuracy of 100. It can no longer hit Ghost-type Pokémon, nor Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If sleep status is inflicted on a Pokémon using Bide, the move is disrupted and does not continue even after the Pokémon wakes up. Bide will now only endure attacks for two turns. Once a Pokémon has started biding, it cannot choose to switch out until the attack is complete. Bide hits the last Pokémon to attack the user, even if this is an ally. In Generation III only, a loss of HP due to Pain Split contributes to the accumulated damage of Bide. Bide now has an increased priority of +1 in its entire duration, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Bide now bypasses accuracy checks again. It can again hit Ghost-type Pokémon. Pain Split can no longer contribute to the accumulated damage of Bide. If Bide is called through another move, it will have +0 priority on its subsequent turns. During Triple Battles, this attack will hit the last Pokémon to attack the user, including allies and non-adjacent foes. If Bide is called through another move, it will have +1 priority on its subsequent turns. Bide gives the user the Bide status, where the user cannot move, attack, or use any items. The status lasts for 4 turns / 3 turns, and any damage received during this time will be dealt back at 2× / 1.5× to the enemy in front. Bide cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. The user goes into a reprisal and any damage that is done to the user is passed to the attacker as well. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, Bide could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Bide could be seen as a move used by opposing Kricketot. Wild Kricketot were revealed to know Bide on the official web site, but they were never shown using the move. Orm's two Shuckle were revealed to know Bide on the official web site, but they was never shown using the move.

Title: Metronome (move)

Metronome (Japanese: ゆびをふる Wag Finger) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. The Metronome user executes a randomly selected move. This called move counts as the last move used. Because Metronome has normal move priority, a move with higher or lower priority may be executed other than when it normally would. For instance, Metronome may cause Quick Attack to be used after a normal priority move or Counter to be used before a normal priority move. If Metronome successfully calls Hyper Beam or a binding move and has 0 PP before the move fully executes, its PP can roll over in the same manner as the move is called, with full PP Ups applied. A Pokémon will be able to use a move that is disabled if called via Metronome. The Struggle bypassing glitch was fixed, so Metronome's PP cannot roll over. Metronome will not prioritize any Pokémon to target; it will randomly target any opponent a move is able to target (even if the move has a positive effect, such as Heal Pulse). If the move can only target the field, a team, or the user, it will do so. If Metronome chooses Acupressure, it can target the user or an ally (in a Single Battle, it will always target the user). Metronome will never call moves that would fail due to Gravity or Heal Block being in effect. Metronome can now call moves even if they would fail due to Gravity or Heal Block. If Metronome chooses Acupressure in a Rotation Battle, it will always target the user. Pokémon that know Metronome are banned from participating in Pokéstar Studio films. If Metronome calls a move the user knows and its user is holding a Choice Band, Choice Specs, or Choice Scarf, the move Metronome called will be locked by the Choice item. Otherwise, Metronome is the locked move. If a multi-turn move called by Metronome triggers Cursed Body, the multi-turn move will be disabled by Cursed Body, even if the user of Metronome does not know that move; otherwise, Metronome will be disabled. If Metronome calls a multi-turn move such as Rollout or Dig and its user is holding a Choice Band, Choice Specs, or Choice Scarf, the move will activate on the first turn, but will fail and end the move on the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Metronome, the randomly selected move will become its corresponding Z-Move. If the selected move is a status move, it will not receive its Z-Power effect. After Metronome finishes its initial finger-wagging animation, the player is not immediately alerted of which move Metronome has called, even if they ordered Metronome's usage. Instead, the user will first enter the called move's usage distance (i.e. Metronome calling Earthquake will cause the user to move into close range of the target, Fire Blast will make the user return to the trainer's side first, and Swords Dance will be cast where the user used Metronome) before the game alerts the player of the move selected and the move is wound up and executed. This is likely to avoid a called move potentially missing an enemy entirely; as Metronome can be executed at any position relative to the target, the user will likely miss close-range moves called by Metronome if their target is not already in their immediate vicinity. In all core series games except in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Metronome cannot select a Max Move, a Z-Move, or any of the moves marked with a ✘ in the following table (moves marked with a ✔ can be called in that Generation). In Generation II, if the Pokémon has used Mimic or Transform, the "Moves that the user knows" applies to the current moveset, not the original moveset. Moves the user knows were intended to be unselectable in Generation III, but due to a coding error, this prohibition does not actually take effect. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Metronome can only select moves introduced in Generation I, except itself and the following moves: In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Metronome's ability to call several moves has changed compared to previous games: Metronome picks a random move from the eligible pool, and the user will perform it in the direction it is currently facing. Despite being classified as a status move, Metronome is not affected by Taunt in the Rescue Team series. This is changed from the Explorers series. The pool of selectable moves is noticeably smaller than in main series; out of all moves in the games, only the following can be called: Metronome can select one out of 19 moves: one strong attack move of each type and Fissure. Metronome has a 1% chance of selecting Fissure, and all other moves have an equal chance of being used. All potential moves are as follows: Masterful Metronome can select one out of 11 moves: ten powerful attack moves and Fissure. Normal-type moves called via Masterful Metronome become Fairy-type moves due to Volo & Togepi's passive skill Piqued Curiosity. In Super Smash Bros., if Clefairy is released from a Poké Ball, it will use Metronome to copy a move done by another Poké Ball Pokémon. It returns in Super Smash Bros. Melee, but its options are reduced to Explosion, Blizzard, Fire Spin, and Gust. Togepi is another Pokémon in Melee that will use Metronome when released from a Poké Ball. It can call up Sleep Powder, Leech Seed, Magnitude, Powder Snow, or Night Shade. It reappears in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, with SmokeScreen replacing Night Shade and Hypnosis replacing Sleep Powder. Togepi uses this new moveset in every game after Brawl. In Pokémon UNITE, Clefable's Unite Move, Wonder Wish, is similar to Metronome. The move's Japanese name refers to the wagging finger associated with the move, implying the user is randomly deciding a move from a list. The move's English name refers to the regular ticks associated with the move, which sound like the device it is named after. In the animated series, Splash has been the most common result of Metronome. The move description was incorrect in Generations II and III, as they stated that the Metronome user can use any move (in reality, there are some unusable moves). This was fixed from Generation IV onwards, stating "nearly any move" instead.

Title: Mirror Move (move)

Mirror Move (Japanese: オウムがえし Parrot Mimicry) is a non-damaging Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. Mirror Move uses the last move targeted at the user by a Pokémon still on the field. A move called by Mirror Move in this way counts as the last move used. Moves that target multiple Pokémon count as long as the user of Mirror Move is one of the targets. Mirror Move will fail if no moves were targeted at the user (by a Pokémon still on the field) before the use of Mirror Move, if the user of the move that would be called by Mirror Move switches out during the turn Mirror Move is used, or if Mirror Move would call itself, a Shadow move, or a Z-Move. In Generation II only, Mirror Move will also always fail when used by a transformed Pokémon. Paralysis, confusion, recharging, and building up for a multi-turn move have no effect on the last move used; if Mirror Move is used against a target that was fully paralyzed, hurt itself in confusion, or executed the first part of a multi-turn move right before its use, Mirror Move will not count this as using a move. In Pokémon Stadium, Mirror Move will copy multi-turn moves during either of the turns they take to execute. A Pokémon will be able to use a move that is disabled if it is called via Mirror Move. Mirror Move can be also used on teammates. If used on a move like Rock Slide that can only target opponents, Mirror Move will use it without hurting allies. Mirror Move now allows the user to simply select a Pokemon on the field to replicate their move, and no longer has to be the last move that targeted the user. If powered up by a Flyinium Z into Z-Mirror Move, the user's Attack stat rises by two stages. Additionally, the copied move will become its corresponding Z-Move. If the copied move is a status move, it will not receive its Z-Power effect. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Mirror Move gives the user the Mirror Move status, which causes all enemy moves targeting it to be reflected back at the attacker instead, without being affected by them. Mirror Move only reflects the effect the move would have on the user, rather than its usage; for example, moves with multiple targets will still hit the other original targets. Mirror Move does not return regular attacks, if the attacker is not adjacent, if the move has already been bounced back, or if it was cutting a corner. The status lasts for 2-5 turns. From Gates to Infinity onward, Mirror Move instead targets an enemy in front and uses the enemy's last used move against them. Mirror Move fails if there is no move to copy. Despite Mirror Move not being directly related to flying, its Japanese name, オウムがえし (Parrot Mimicry), explains why the move is Flying-type and why most Pokémon that learn it are bird-based. Despite being unusable as of Generation VIII, moves are still programmed to be affected by Mirror Move in later games.

Title: Egg Bomb (move)

Egg Bomb (Japanese: タマゴばくだん Egg Bomb) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TM37 in Generation I. Egg Bomb inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Egg Bomb does no damage to opponents with the Bulletproof ability. Egg Bomb can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination and a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Soft-Boiled was used in the previous turn.

Title: Lick (move)

Lick (Japanese: したでなめる Tongue Lick) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation I. Lick inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Lick cannot paralyze Ghost-type Pokémon. Lick deals damage and can leave the enemy paralyzed. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. Maizie's Teddiursa was revealed to know Lick on the official website, but she was never shown using the move. Lick is the only Ghost move in Generation I that deals direct damage, as Night Shade's damage is based on the user's level. Lick is the only Ghost-type move in Generation I that takes the type chart into account. In Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD, when a Pokémon uses Lick, it will show its tongue. Starting in Pokémon Battle Revolution, this no longer occurs. Lick is the only Ghost-type move that can cause paralysis.

Title: Smog (move)

Smog (Japanese: スモッグ Smog) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. Smog inflicts damage and has a 40% chance of poisoning the target. Smog can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing SmokeScreen to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Smog deals damage and may leave the target poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderately good chance of leaving the target poisoned. In Pokémon Stadium and Stadium 2, Smog is described as having a 50% chance of poisoning its target, but it actually has a 40% chance.

Title: Sludge (move)

Sludge (Japanese: ヘドロこうげき Sludge Attack) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. Sludge does damage and has a 40% chance of poisoning the target. Sludge can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Sludge Bomb to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Sludge Bomb was used in the previous turn. Sludge deals damage and may leave the target poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target poisoned. In the English dub of Here Comes the Trubbish Squad!, a wild Trubbish was mentioned to use Sludge. This is a dubbing error, as in the original Japanese version, the move in question was instead called Sludge Bomb. In Pokémon Stadium, Sludge is described as having a 50% chance of poisoning its target, but it actually has a 40% chance. Since Generation V, Sludge has the same description text as Sludge Bomb.

Title: Bone Club (move)

Bone Club (Japanese: ホネこんぼう Bone Club) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation I. It is one of the signature moves of Cubone and Marowak. Bone Club inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of causing the target to flinch. Bone Club cannot cause a target with a substitute to flinch. Bone Club can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Bone Rush and Bonemerang to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Bone Rush or Bonemerang was used in the previous turn. Bone Club deals damage, and may cause the target to flinch. Bone Club is the only Ground-type move capable of making the target flinch.

Title: Fire Blast (move)

Fire Blast (Japanese: だいもんじ Daimonji) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation I. TM38 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM46 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Fire Blast inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Fire Blast now has a 10% chance to burn the target. Fire Blast can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Fire Blast deals damage and may leave the target with a burn. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Charizard uses Fire Blast as part of Pokémon Trainer's Final Smash, Triple Finish. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U it is one of Mega Charizard X's attacks which is shot as a fireball out of Mega Charizard X's mouth where upon contact it transforms into 大 and causes multiple hits. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. Arc Suit Leon & Charizard's passive skill Champion Who Hears the Cheers makes this attack target all opponents and always result in a critical hit. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In Final Battle: Versus The Salon Maiden, Anabel told her Entei to use Fire Blast, but it wasn't shown using the move. Fire Blast has been featured in several official merchandise that depicts Pokémon using moves. In Generation I, Fire Blast was the only Fire-type move that could be taught by TM. Its animation is based on the Daimonji of the Japanese festival Gozan no Okuribi, where a large bonfire is lit in the shape of the character 大 (meaning "big" or "great"). A glitch sometimes occurs with this move in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 where the background fails to appear, instead showing just black. In Pokémon X and Y, when a Pokémon with a large hitbox (such as Rayquaza) uses Fire Blast in a battle in one of the back alleys of Lumiose City, when the camera pans backwards, it will clip through the building to the right side of the Pokémon, causing it to completely disappear momentarily. The decoration item Fire Blast Mat was named after this move and features the Daimonji character in its design.

Title: Waterfall (move)

Waterfall (Japanese: たきのぼり Waterfall Climb) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. TM98 in Pokémon Sun and Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM25 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. TM99 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Prior to Generation II, it was the signature move of Goldeen and Seaking. Waterfall does damage and has no secondary effect. Waterfall can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Waterfall now has a 20% chance of causing the target to flinch. Waterfall is usable outside of battle, allowing the player to climb waterfalls. In several games, this move is needed to travel past certain points where waterfalls block the player's path. The player is required to be surfing on water and facing a waterfall when using this move. They can either use Waterfall from the party screen or simply press A to interact with the waterfall. Prior to Generation V, all the waterfalls climbable with this move flowed from north to south (from the top to the bottom of the game screen). In certain games, using Waterfall outside of battle requires a specific badge; the Volcano Badge, Rising Badge, Rain Badge, Beacon Badge, or Iceberg Badge. Waterfall is now an HM move which allows the player to climb waterfalls. This move is not required to go down waterfalls. In Pokémon Platinum, there is a waterfall in the Distortion World that can be climbed without having the move Waterfall or the Beacon Badge. This is likely due to the fact that gravity is not normal in this world; the player appears to be "surfing" on the waterfall's surface. Waterfall can no longer be used outside of battle. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Waterfall cannot be used outside of battle. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it can again and functions as it did in Generations IV to VI, aside from being accessed through the Pokétch rather than being taught to a Pokémon. Waterfall can no longer be used outside of battle. Waterfall inflicts damage. From the Explorers series, the move can now cause the target to flinch. Waterfall is Squirtle's Up Special move. It can be used by Squirtle as a recovery move and offers high knockback at the very end of the move. In Pokémon GO, Waterfall is a Fast Attack that has been available since December 8, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of making the target flinch. In Pokémon Pokopia, Waterfall is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Gyarados in Sparkling Skylands. It allows Ditto to climb waterfalls while transformed into Lapras. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom The English name "Waterfall" leaves out the part about climbing, as opposed to the Japanese name "たきのぼり" (Waterfall Climb). Some in-game descriptions (starting in the Japanese Pokémon Stadium) further clarify that the user is charging with enough force to climb waterfalls. In the English version of Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow, there is no indication that this move involves climbing waterfalls, because these games do not include move descriptions. In the Japanese version of Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal, the act of "charging with enough force to climb waterfalls" is mentioned in the move description. In the English translation, this was shortened to simply "An aquatic charge attack." (leaving out again the part about climbing). However, Clair explains the move after being defeated: "RisingBadge will enable your Pokémon to use the move for climbing waterfalls." In several games, a waterfall appears when this move is used in-battle. This may incorrectly suggest that the user is summoning a waterfall. While this is most notable in the side series games such as the Pokémon Stadium games, Colosseum and XD: Gale of Darkness, the attack has been correctly depicted by Squirtle in the Super Smash Bros. series. Waterfall was the first move to gain HM status in a generation after it was introduced, doing so in Generation II. Only Rock Smash shares this trait, although it does not remain an HM in all subsequent generations. Waterfall is the only HM move that was never exclusively taught by HM. Waterfall is the only former signature move to later become an HM move. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Wallace gives out HM05 (Waterfall) instead of a TM. This is the only time a Gym Leader gives out an HM instead of a TM. In Generation II only, the surfing Pokémon spins quickly when it is climbing a waterfall. In Generation VI, if the player uses Waterfall to go up or down a waterfall while riding on a Pokémon with a unique Surfing model (like Lapras), the screen will briefly be covered in a splash of water and then show the player at the other end of the waterfall, instead of showing the entire process. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, on Battle CD 38, Anorith knows Waterfall, although it cannot learn the move. Waterfall is the only Water-type move capable of making the target flinch.

Title: Clamp (move)

Clamp (Japanese: からではさむ Shell Squeeze) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Shellder and Cloyster. Clamp has an accuracy of 75% and 10 base PP. Clamp inflicts damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns, and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Although only the first hit can be a critical hit, each consecutive turn will deal the same amount of damage. Whilst the target is trapped, it will be unable to attack, and if the user of Clamp strikes before the target, when used, the target will also be unable to attack during the same turn. Clamp will prevent the target from attacking even if it hits a substitute. While Clamp is ongoing, neither the user nor the target will be able to select moves (selecting "Fight" will cause the user to continue to deal damage and the target to do nothing), but both the user and target can switch out. No message is given on the last turn, so players will not know whether Clamp has ended unless they select "Fight" to open the move list. Damage inflicted by Clamp's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches out before the turn duration ends, the target will be unable to attack during that turn. If the target switches out before the turn duration ends, Clamp will automatically be used against the incoming Pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move. If at such a time Clamp has 0 PP, Clamp will still be used, and the current PP of Clamp will roll over to 63, applying full PP Ups. Even if Clamp misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam. Additionally, if the user of Clamp attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn and the use of Clamp misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards its current PP will roll over to 63, applying full PP Ups. In Pokémon Stadium, the player can select a move during each turn of Clamp's duration. If the target switches out before the duration ends, the incoming Pokémon will not be automatically attacked; instead, the user's turn is skipped. Clamp will negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful. The target is now able to attack during Clamp's duration, and can act normally. Instead, it inflicts 1/16 of the target's maximum HP as damage for two to five turns upon use, in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. There is now an equal 25% chance that it will attack for 2, 3, 4 or 5 turns. "<Pokémon> was CLAMPED by <User>!" will appear. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a trapped Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. The effects of Clamp are the same as in Generation II, but if a wild Pokémon uses Clamp on the player's Pokémon, the player may escape if the affected Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. However, these do not allow the player to switch the Pokémon out. The text also changes to "<User> CLAMPED <Pokémon>!" If the user of Clamp is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be five turns. Also, if an affected Pokémon is holding a Shed Shell, it can switch out. Clamp can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Clamp's accuracy is increased to 85, its PP is increased to 15, and it lasts four to five turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/16 of the target's maximum HP to 1/8. If the user of Clamp is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will be 7 turns. The end turn damage of Clamp is increased from 1/16 to 1/8 of the target's maximum HP. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the end turn damage of Clamp will increase to 1/6 of the target's maximum HP. Ghost-type Pokémon cannot be trapped by Clamp. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Clamp deals damage and can inflict the Constriction status condition on the enemy. With this, the Pokémon cannot move (though it may attack), cannot switch places with the team leader, and loses 5 HP every two turns (for 4-6 turns). From Super Mystery Dungeon, it instead can cause the Clamp status condition which causes the enemy to lose 3 HP at the end of every 2 turns (lasting 6 turns).

Title: Swift (move)

Swift (Japanese: スピードスター Speed Star) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. In the Western versions of the Generation I handheld games, as well as in Pokémon Stadium, Swift inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit. It can hit a Pokémon even during the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In the Japanese versions of the Generation I handheld games, Swift functions as a 100% accuracy move due to a glitch, unless the opponent is behind a substitute; if it is, Swift can never miss, even if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Swift now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Swift hits opposing adjacent Pokémon in battles featuring multiple Pokémon. Swift is a Fire-type move when used by Blue & Arcanine due to their passive skill Fire Shift. Mewtwo has been confirmed to know Swift. However, it has only been used in the radio drama The Birth of Mewtwo, so it has never been seen using it. Ash's Pikachu was commanded to use Swift in The Beginning Of Good Luck?! Pokémon Fortune Telling, but it was not shown using the move. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In Scizor Defends, Y's Sylveon, Veevee, was mentioned to known Swift, but the move was used off-panel. Its Japanese name, Speed Star, can also mean "Speedster," hence its English name being "Swift." Prior to Generation VI, Swift was the only sure-hit move that hits both opponents during a Double Battle. Starting in Generation VI, Disarming Voice also meets these conditions. All Fire-type first partner Pokémon and their Evolutions can learn Swift via Platinum, HeartGold, and SoulSilver Move Tutors. In The Electric Tale of Pikachu, Ash's Pikachu's Swift is referred to as Speed Star, a literal translation of its Japanese name.

Title: Skull Bash (move)

Skull Bash (Japanese: ロケットずつき Rocket Headbutt) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Squirtle's evolutionary line, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM40 in Generation I and TM146 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Skull Bash does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than say that the user lowered its head. On the following turn, Skull Bash will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Skull Bash is selected, the user won't be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. If Skull Bash is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user lowers its head, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Skull Bash (or fail if it can't). Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Skull Bash. In Stadium, Mirror Move will copy Skull Bash on either of the turns it takes to execute. On the turn it is selected, Skull Bash will raise the user's Defense by one level. If a Power Herb is held by the user, Skull Bash can be executed in one turn. Skull Bash's power is changed from 100 to 130 and its PP changed from 15 to 10. Skull Bash causes the user to gain the Skull Bash status condition on the first turn and boosts the user's Defense (this boost only lasts in the charging phase prior to Super Mystery Dungeon). The user unleashes the move on the next turn. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. Being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Skull Bash cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. Skull Bash is a Charged Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since July 9, 2019. Pikachu uses Skull Bash as its side special from Super Smash Bros. Melee onwards. Skull Bash can be charged up to inflict more damage and knockback, as well as launching Pikachu further sideways, making it usable for recovering. Pichu uses Skull Bash as its side special. It is similar to Pikachu's, but can be charged longer and can deal even more damage and knockback, though hurts Pichu a little upon release. Pichu cannot legitimately learn Skull Bash in the main games, however. In The Ultimate Test, Nurse Joy commanded the Squirtle she had rented from the Pokémon League Admissions Exam instructor to use Skull Bash, but the move was used off-screen. In the English dub of Dueling Heroes, Ash commanded his Totodile to use Skull Bash, which it cannot legally learn. In the original Japanese version, Ash instead commanded Totodile to use Headbutt. Green's Blastoise, Blasty, was revealed to know Skull Bash on the official website, but he has never been shown using the move.

Title: Spike Cannon (move)

Spike Cannon (Japanese: とげキャノン Spike Cannon) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. Spike Cannon inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times; a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times; a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times; and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. Spike Cannon will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. All strikes now do damage independently, consequently enabling any of them to be critical. Spike Cannon may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Spike Cannon unless it misses. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times; a 35% chance it will hit 3 times; a 15% chance it will hit 4 times; and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power is now 62. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Spike Cannon inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, if a targeted Pokémon faints in middle of the attack, the remaining projectiles will be able to hit a new target, and are still executed if a Reviver Seed activates. In Generation I, Omanyte is able to learn Spike Cannon despite lacking any visible spikes. None of the Pokémon that can learn Spike Cannon get STAB from it (other than Smeargle). In addition, all Pokémon that can learn it are part Water-type.

Title: Constrict (move)

This article is about the move in the core games. For the Skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Constrict. Constrict (Japanese: からみつく Coil Around) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Constrict inflicts damage and has a 33.2% chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 24.9%). Constrict now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is still an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 7.5%). This does not apply when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, nor in the Battle Tower. Constrict's effect no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Constrict deals damage and can lower the target's Travel Speed by one stage. Constrict has the lowest consistent base power of all damage-dealing moves.

Title: Amnesia (move)

Amnesia (Japanese: ドわすれ Memory Lapse) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. It was TR17 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM128 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Amnesia increases the user's Special by two stages. Amnesia now raises the user's Special Defense by two stages instead. Amnesia is a part of Contest Spectacular combination and using it will cause Baton Pass and Stored Power to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Amnesia, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Amnesia raises the user's Sp. Defense by two stages.

Title: Kinesis (move)

Kinesis (Japanese: スプーンまげ Spoon Bend) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. It is the signature move of Kadabra and Alakazam. Kinesis decreases the target's accuracy stat by one stage. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Kinesis, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Kinesis can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Confusion, Future Sight, Psychic, and Teleport to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Confusion or Psychic was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Kinesis, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Kinesis could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. This move is a reference to the psychokinetic spoon bending tricks popularized by stage psychic Uri Geller. Along with Barrage and Struggle, Kinesis is one of three moves introduced in Generation I that have not been featured in the animated series. In the case of Kinesis, this may be due to legal issues between Nintendo and Geller. Despite Kinesis having not made a proper animated series debut, it was used by a Clefairy via Metronome in the Professor Oak's Pokémon Lecture bonus segment for EP096. In Pokémon Red and Blue, no Pokémon could learn Kinesis; it only appeared as a random result of Metronome. From Pokémon Yellow onward, Kadabra has it as a starting move, such that wild Kadabra know Kinesis in Pokémon Yellow and the Generation II games. Kadabra and Alakazam can also be taught Kinesis using the Move Reminder in Pokémon Stadium 2. Kinesis is the only move that is formerly unusable in Generation VIII to use an unusable move description until Version 1.2.0 of Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: High Jump Kick (move)

High Jump Kick (Japanese: とびひざげり Jumping Knee Kick), spelled Hi Jump Kick prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation III, it was one of the signature moves of Hitmonlee, but Tyrogue could still inherit it via breeding. Hi Jump Kick does damage with a power of 85. If it misses, the user will take crash damage of 1 HP. If used against a Ghost-type, then the user will not take crash damage. In Generations I-III, if the user of Hi Jump Kick attacks first and faints itself due to crash damage, the target will not attack. The crash damage is now 1/8 of the damage it would have dealt. The user will take crash damage if Hi Jump Kick is protected against by a move such as Protect, but not due to type immunity (only the type immunity message is displayed). The crash damage is now 1/2 of the damage it would have dealt. Hi Jump Kick can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Mind Reader was used in the previous turn. Hi Jump Kick's base power is increased from 85 to 100. It cannot be used if Gravity is in effect. The user can now crash due to a target's type immunity, and will take crash damage equal to half of the target's max HP in that case. The user will not take crash damage if Hi Jump Kick fails due to there being no remaining targets. High Jump Kick's base power is increased from 100 to 130, and its PP is reduced from 20 to 10. The crash damage is now (always) equal to half of the user's max HP, rounded down. High Jump Kick inflicts damage, and the final damage is multiplied by two in the Rescue Team and Explorers series. If the move misses the target, the user receives recoil damage (equal to ½ of the damage that would have otherwise been dealt in the Rescue Team and Explorers series; 50% of the user's max HP in Gates to Infinity, and 30% of the user's max HP in Super Mystery Dungeon). In Pokémon GO, High Jump Kick is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 19, 2024. When their sync move is Fire-type, Gloria (Alt. 2) & Cinderace's passive skill Fuel Economy 2 makes this move cost 1 move gauge slot to use. When their sync move is Fighting-type, Gloria (Alt. 2) & Cinderace's passive skill Piercing Gaze makes their use of this move never miss. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): If it fails, the user takes damage equal to half of its maximum HP.

Title: Glare (move)

If you were looking for the move whose Japanese name can be translated as Glare, see Leer. Glare (Japanese: へびにらみ Snake Glare) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was the signature move of Ekans and Arbok. Glare paralyzes the target. It has an accuracy of 75%. It can hit Ghost-type Pokémon. Glare now does not affect Ghost-type Pokémon, unless the Ghost-type Pokémon is affected by Foresight or Odor Sleuth. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Glare, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Glare can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Leer was used in the previous turn. The accuracy of Glare is increased from 75% to 90%. Glare's accuracy changed from 90% to 100%. It no longer affects Electric-types due to them now being immune to paralysis. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Glare, the user's Special Defense rises one stage. Glare can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex and Smelling Salts to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Glare paralyzes the target. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Glare could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Glare could be seen as a move used by Boss Ekans. Drampa, Druddigon, and Helioptile can learn this move, which is known as へびにらみ Hebinirami (Snake Glare) in Japanese, despite not being based on any particular snake. This may be because Western dragons and snakes, particularly the basilisk, are both sometimes depicted as being capable of influencing their victims with eye contact, either by using some magical ability to immobilize those that look into their eyes or simply paralyzing them with fear. Inversely, despite being categorized as the "Rock Snake" and "Iron Snake" Pokémon respectively, neither Onix nor its evolved form, Steelix, have ever been able to learn Glare by any means. The descriptions of the move in FireRed and LeafGreen and Generation IV onwards until Pokémon Legends: Z-A state that "The user intimidates the target with the pattern on its belly", a description that seems to be intended specifically for Arbok. Pokémon the Series, as well as the manga and Pokémon Stadium series, portray Glare as a literal glare at the opponent instead, while Pokémon Horizons: The Series portrays the move how it is described in most games.

Title: Dream Eater (move)

If you were looking for the e-Reader application, see Dream Eater (e-Reader). Dream Eater (Japanese: ゆめくい Dream Eat) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. TM85 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM59 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Dream Eater only works if the target is asleep; otherwise, it does nothing. Dream Eater inflicts damage, and 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP (up to the user's maximum HP). However, if this attack deals 1 HP of damage, 1 HP will be restored to the user. Dream Eater also affects targets with the Comatose Ability, which act as though they are asleep without the status condition. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. When used on a Pokémon with the Liquid Ooze Ability, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. A Pokémon under the effect of Heal Block is unable to use Dream Eater. If there are no other usable moves, it will use Struggle. If HP is restored to the user when its current HP is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal to its maximum HP. In the localized versions of the Generation I games, if Dream Eater breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. In the Japanese version of Generation I games and all versions of the Pokémon Stadium series games, Dream Eater will always miss if the target has a substitute. Dream Eater can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind or Hypnosis was used in the previous turn. Dream Eater can now hit a substitute and will properly heal the user when damaging a substitute, even if it was broken. Dream Eater can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if a sleep-inducing status move (except Psycho Shift and Rest) was used in the prior turn. Dream Eater inflicts damage, and 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP, including excess damage. The move will fail if the target is not affected by a sleep-related status condition. The move is affected by the Muzzle status condition. In Gates to Infinity, the user will heal based on how much HP the target lost, with excess damage not being accounted for. This is changed back to what it previously was in Super Mystery Dungeon. Before Generation V, Dream Eater was the only HP-draining move unaffected by the effects of Liquid Ooze. Dream Eater is the only Psychic-type HP-draining move. Dream Eater has the highest base power of all HP-draining moves. Dream Eater is the only draining move that still didn't work on a substitute in Generation III; instead, it's worked on a substitute since Generation V Despite being heavily associated with Dream Eater, Drowzee and Hypno cannot learn the move by leveling up outside of Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Notably, as the move is not a TM in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Drowzee and Hypno cannot legally learn Dream Eater in these games, despite both them and the move itself being present.

Title: Poison Gas (move)

どくガス redirects here. For Poisonous Mist, the Skill in Pokémon Shuffle with the same Japanese name, see Skill (Shuffle) → Poisonous Mist. Poison Gas (Japanese: どくガス Poison Gas) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. Poison Gas poisons the target and has an accuracy of 55%. Poison Gas cannot affect Poison-type Pokémon. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Poison Gas, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Poison Gas's accuracy is increased to 80% and now targets all adjacent opponents in Double and Triple Battles. Poison Gas can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex, Venom Drench and Venoshock to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Poison Gas, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Poison Gas leaves the target poisoned. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Poison Gas could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Poison Gas could be seen as a move used by Boss Koffing and Stunky. Status conditions caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Leaves all opposing sync pairs poisoned. In the English dub of A Tent Situation, Ash commanded his Muk to use Poison Gas. In the original Japanese version, he simply called Muk by its name.

Title: Barrage (move)

Barrage (Japanese: たまなげ Ball Throw) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. It is the signature move of Exeggcute and Exeggutor. Barrage inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. Barrage will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. All strikes now do damage independently, enabling any of them to be critical hits. Barrage may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 15% base miss chance) is now 39.5. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Barrage has no effect on targets with Bulletproof. Barrage inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). In Super Mystery Dungeon, the move's range is increased to a fan-like area up to 5 tiles away. If a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. Along with Kinesis and Struggle, Barrage is one of three moves introduced in Generation I that has yet to be featured in the animated series. It is also the only move to be featured in Pokémon Origins but not in the animated series.

Title: Leech Life (move)

Leech Life (Japanese: きゅうけつ Suck Blood) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation I. TM28 in Pokémon Sun and Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Leech Life inflicts damage, and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP (but not less than 1 HP), restoring up to the Pokémon's maximum HP. In the localized versions of the Generation I games, if Leech Life breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. In the Japanese version of Generation I games, and all versions of the Pokémon Stadium series and Generation II games, Leech Life will always miss if the target has a substitute. Leech Life will now properly heal the user when damaging a substitute, even if it was broken. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user takes damage instead of restoring HP. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Leech Life cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. Leech Life's power was increased from 20 to 80 and its PP was reduced from 15 to 10. With this change, Absorb replaced Leech Life on most Pokémon's level up moves. Leech Life deals damage and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP, including excess damage. In Adventure Squad only, the move heals by 20% of dealt damage instead. In Gates to Infinity only, the user will heal based on how much HP the target lost, and excess damage is not accounted for. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. In The Secret of Kangaskhan, Blue's Venomoth was revealed to know Leech Life by his Pokédex. The power of Leech Life was quadrupled in Generation VII, this marks the largest increase for the power of a move in percentage over a single Generation, and ties with Fury Cutter if multiple increases are considered. This is also the greatest increase to a move in terms of power since Self-Destruct and Explosion in Generation II. However, the change also includes a removal from the level-up learnsets of many Pokémon which could learn Leech Life early on in previous generations, with Absorb taking its place instead.

Title: Lovely Kiss (move)

Lovely Kiss (Japanese: あくまのキッス Demon's Kiss) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is the signature move of Jynx. It appears to be the sleep counterpart to Sweet Kiss. In the Generation I handheld games only, Lovely Kiss can affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Lovely Kiss, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Pokémon with Insomnia or Vital Spirit as their Ability are unaffected by Lovely Kiss. Pokémon under the effect of Sweet Veil are also unaffected by Lovely Kiss. Lovely Kiss can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare, and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Lovely Kiss, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Lovely Kiss could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Lovely Kiss puts the enemy to sleep. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. In the game data of Pokémon Gold and Silver, Smoochum is programmed to learn Lovely Kiss as an Egg Move, but no male Pokémon that can know it are in Smoochum's Egg Group, making it impossible to pass down the move legitimately. It no longer has it as an Egg Move in Pokémon Crystal. Its Japanese name correlates with its animations in the Generation II and III games, as well as Battle Revolution, in which a demon floats down from the top of the screen and kisses the opponent. A similar situation occurs with Sweet Kiss prior to Generation VII. The same demon character appears in the Generation II animation of the move Spite.

Title: Sky Attack (move)

Sky Attack (Japanese: ゴッドバード God Bird) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation I. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Moltres, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM43 in Generation I and TM153 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Sky Attack does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than say that the user is glowing. On the following turn, Sky Attack will deal damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Sky Attack is selected, the user will not be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. If Sky Attack is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the target uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user is glowing, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Sky Attack (or fail if it cannot). Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Sky Attack. In Stadium, Mirror Move will copy Sky Attack on either of the turns it takes to execute. Sky Attack now has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. It also now has an increased critical hit ratio. Sky Attack now displays "<Pokémon> became cloaked in a harsh light!" instead of "<Pokémon> is glowing!" If the user is holding a Power Herb, there will be no charge turn. Sky Attack can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Sky Attack's power was increased from 140 to 200. The user gains the Sky Attack status condition on the first turn, and unleashes the move on the next turn. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. Being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Sky Attack cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. Sky Attack has an increased critical hit ratio only since Super Mystery Dungeon. In Pokémon GO, Sky Attack is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Sky Attack has the highest base power of all Flying-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. Sky Attack also has the highest base power of all moves capable of causing flinching. Additionally, Sky Attack has the highest base power of all increased critical-hit ratio moves. A Supersonic Skystrike based on Sky Attack has the highest base power of all Flying-type moves. Sky Attack and Brave Bird share similar in-game animations in Generation IV and V; the only major difference is that the former has a blue aura, the latter has a red aura. This was reversed in the animated series (Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire portrayed Sky Attack with a red or orange aura, whereas its portrayal in Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl changed it to white or yellow) up until Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. In Generation I, Sky Attack was the only Flying-type move that could be taught via TM.

Title: Transform (move)

If you were looking for the skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Transform. For the Special Ability in Pokémon Battle Trozei, see the List of Special Abilities in Pokémon Battle Trozei. Transform (Japanese: へんしん Transform) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. The Ability Imposter has the same effect as Transform. Transform causes the user to become a copy of the target. A transformed Pokémon returns to its original state once it is switched out, faints, or the battle ends. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Transform, the user's HP is fully restored. Transform bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It is not affected by type immunity. Transform fails if used on a Pokémon that is protected by Crafty Shield, but works on a target protected by other moves such as Protect or Detect. It also fails against Shadow Pokémon, if the user or the target are disguised by an Illusion, if the target is behind a substitute, or if the target's Ability is Good as Gold. Some of these conditions were different in older generations; see the table below for details on when conditions would not prevent Transform from executing. In Pokémon Stadium only, Transform fails if the target's current species is Ditto. Transforms works normally against Ditto in the earlier Japan-only game Pokémon Stadium. Starting with Version 3.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Transform fails if used in a battle against a wild Pokémon when used by any Pokémon other than Ditto or Mew. This was done to address a cloning glitch involving wild Smeargle using the move, though it also affects a Smeargle owned by the player. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, Pokémon that know Transform are banned from participating in Pokéstar Studios films. Broadly, Transform copies the target's appearance, types, Ability, stats, and moves; the user retains its HP and level. More precise details are below. *: In Generation II, the Love Ball uses copied IVs for transformed wild Pokémon. See below Transform copies any changes to the target's type (such as from Conversion or Color Change), Ability (such as from Skill Swap), or moves (via Mimic). It also copies types added by Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat. If the target has lost a type from Roost, Transform will copy the target's type(s) from before Roost was used. If a dual-type target has lost a type from Burn Up or Double Shock, Transform will copy the remaining type only. If the target has lost its only type (not counting added types) from Burn Up or Double Shock (thus becoming typeless), Transform will copy Normal type. The user's level has no effect, except in Generations I-IV if the Pokémon levels up and its stats are recalculated. Appearance refers to the sprite or model of the Pokémon shown on the field and covers the Pokémon's species, gender, form, and whether it is Shiny. (Prior to Generation IV, there was some complicated nuance regarding the transformation's coloration.) The copied stats (Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed) include the final values (as seen on the summary screen) as well as the target's base stats, individual values, and effort values. Outside of the transformation's appearance, gender (for the purpose of battle mechanics as well as the gender symbol after the name) was only copied starting in Generation V, with a small exception in Generation II. It also will not alter status conditions or volatile statuses based on the transformation's immunities. For instance, a Pokémon remains poisoned even after transforming into a Poison or Steel-type Pokémon, and remains seeded by Leech Seed even after transforming into a Grass-type Pokémon. In Generation I only, if the player's Pokémon is transformed and deals or receives a critical hit, its untransformed stats are used in the damage calculation. (The calculation correctly uses transformed stats for wild and NPC Pokémon.) In all generations, in the summary and party screens, a transformed Pokémon is shown in its untransformed state. (This applies to its moves, Ability, and stats as well.) In Nintendo DS and 3DS games, the list of moves seen on the bottom screen during battle will also show the untransformed sprite of the Pokémon. In Generation I, if either the user or the target's sprite has changed because of Acid Armor or Minimize, after using Transform, the transformation's normal sprite will be shown. In the Generation I and II core series games, a transformed Pokémon retains its original color palette. In Pokémon Stadium 2 and Generation III games (including Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness), whether a transformed Pokémon appears Shiny depends on whether the user was originally Shiny; since Generation IV, it depends on whether the target was Shiny. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, if the Partner Pikachu/Eevee is the target of Transform, Transform will copy any clothes they are wearing. Transform copies the target's current form. In Generations III and IV, a transformed Pokémon can change form if it fulfills the conditions for a form change (such as by holding a Plate as Arceus). Since Generation V, a transformed Pokémon cannot change forms. Dynamax transformations are not treated like a form, meaning Transform will copy the base form of a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon or Eternamax Eternatus, and a transformed Pokémon is able to Dynamax. If Transform copies a Gigantamax Pokémon, it does not copy the Gigantamax Factor, so Dynamaxing will not result in a Gigantamax Pokémon. If Transform is used by a Dynamaxed Pokémon, it will fail if the target is Zacian, Zamazenta, or Eternatus. Transform will fail if the target is a Starmobile. If the target is a Titan Pokémon, the user transforms into a regular version of that species. Transform does not copy Tera Types, meaning that a transformed Pokémon that Terastallizes will use its own Tera Type. If a Terastallized Pokémon uses Transform, the move will not change its type. Transform fails against a Terastallized Ogerpon or Terapagos. If a Pokémon Transforms into Ogerpon or Terapagos, it will be unable to Terastallize. If a Pokémon Terastallizes into the Stellar type and uses Transform, it will fail. When a move is copied, it will have 5 PP, unless its maximum PP is less (such as Sketch). In Generations I and II, the maximum PP is the same as the move's natural maximum PP; in Generations III and IV, each copied move receives the effect of PP Ups applied to the same move slot of the user's original moves; since Generation V, the maximum PP for copied moves is 5. In Generations I-III, PP-restoring items such as Ether can only restore PP to a move if the Pokémon knew the move before transforming. For a held Leppa Berry, if a move the Pokémon did not know reaches 0 PP, the Berry will not trigger. Transform does not affect the user's Hidden Power (whose type, as well as the power up to Generation V, are based on the user's original IVs). In Generation II, Attract works according to the target's original gender. In Generation II only, Mirror Move always fails when used by a transformed Pokémon. Telekinesis still works when the target is transformed into Pokémon that would normally be immune to it. A transformed Pokémon can use Hyperspace Fury if transformed into Hoopa Unbound. A Pokémon can use a species-exclusive Z-Move if transformed into the correct species and holding the respective Z-Crystal, except if Mega Evolved. If a Pokémon transforms into Meteor Form Minior, Shields Down will not prevent it from being afflicted with status conditions. A transformation cannot be transferred via Baton Pass. A transformed Pokémon retains its original species for determining if it is boosted by most Pokémon-specific stat-enhancing items. Only Metal Powder and Quick Powder use the transformation's species. For the purposes of the Eviolite, the original species of the user is considered, rather than the Pokémon it Transformed into. This is taken into account when using certain Poké Balls on a transformed wild Pokémon: In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, during a Pokémon Contest, the Pokémon will transform into one of the other contestants. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, during a Pokémon Super Contest, the Pokémon will transform into one of the other contestants. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, during a Pokémon Contest Spectacular, when Transform is used, a substitute doll is thrown on the stage and the user transforms into the doll. The effect of Transform will last for the round it is used in. Generation I has several glitches relating to Transform. Any transformed wild Pokémon will become Ditto if it is caught, due to the Transform assumption oversight. If a transformed Pokémon uses Transform again, its previous stats (stored as a backup) are overwritten by its current stats (as they are backed up so that Transform can change the working stats); this is the Transform DV manipulation glitch. If a Pokémon that is not Ditto uses Transform, the color loss glitch will cause it to change to Ditto's palette. The level up moveset glitch causes a transformed Pokémon to regain its original moveset if it levels up and learns a new move. Generation II has several glitches relating to Transform. The Transform assumption glitch and Transform DV manipulation glitch from Generation I still exist. The latter now has an additional effect, the Roar/Whirlwind shared DV glitch: in a battle with an NPC, if the NPC's Pokémon has used Transform twice and is forced to switch out, the next Pokémon will have its predecessor's DVs. If a transformed Pokémon is caught, it will have 10/10 PP for Transform despite having used the move. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, the Explorers series, and the Adventure Squad series, Transform causes the user to take the form of a random hostile Pokémon on the dungeon's floor. It does not copy anything else; if the Pokémon had nothing but Transform, they are left only with the regular attack and Struggle. Transformed Pokémon are still prone to status conditions and dungeon tile restrictions from its original form; for example, a Ditto transformed into a Fire-type can still be burned, and a Pokémon that cannot walk through water still cannot when transforming into a Pokémon that is able to. Transform also cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Transform copies the appearance, type, mobility, Ability, moves (with full PP), and stat modifications of the target for the duration of the floor, but the transforming Pokémon retains its stats and move ranks. As with other statuses, the effect wears off if the user faints. When used on Castform, Cherrim, or Aegislash, the user will retain the copied form regardless of weather or Stance Change. Transform also fails if the target is currently disguised with Illusion. If transforming into a Gigantic Pokémon, nearby Pokémon will be moved away to make room. Moves learned through Sketch while transformed will be forgotten after moving to the next floor. If Transform is used by an enemy on a team member, the target's teammates in the room become confused. This often occurs after stepping on a Ditto trap, as it spawns a Ditto that acts immediately, unless the trap activator has a Travel Speed boost. In a Gym or Raid Battle, Transform is automatically cast at the beginning of the battle. It turns the user into a copy of the opponent and copies the opponent's moves, species, base Attack, and base Defense; HP, IVs, and power up level are not copied. Unlike other attacks, Transform does not require the user to wait out the duration before casting an attack or dodging, and its animation is purely visual. However, it may cause lag for the rest of the battle if the player attempts to attack during the animation. The effects of Transform expire at the end of the battle. Transform will not be cast if the opponent is a Ditto. If Ditto is used against a Team GO Rocket Grunt or another player, Transform will behave like regular attacks and not transform Ditto into opposing Pokémon. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Transform could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Transform could be seen as a move used by opposing Ditto. In Pokémon Pokopia, Transform is a move that Ditto can use naturally. It allows Ditto to transform parts of its body into those of other Pokémon, allowing it to use their moves, or transform itself wholly into another Pokémon, granting it new options for movement. In Generation I core series games and Japanese Pokémon Stadium, if two Pokémon battle using only Transform (such as a battle between two Ditto or two Mew with Transform), both Pokémon are able to continually Transform into each other, replenishing the 5 PP constantly and so that the battle never has to end. Since the Transform user retains its own gender, it is possible to transform into a Pokémon species which would be normally unavailable with that gender. For instance, a male Smeargle retains his gender (including the symbol ♂ displayed in battle), even when transformed into female-only Pokémon such as Miltank, Chansey, or Tsareena, or into gender-unknown Pokémon such as Mewtwo, Beldum, or Cryogonal. The Transform user copies the appearance and visual gender differences of the target, even if those are not compatible with the Transform user's gender. For instance, if a male Smeargle copies a female Pikachu, then he will have the appearance of a female Pikachu as well (with the heart-shaped tail) even though he remains male like before (with the ♂ symbol in battle). Transform is the only legitimate way to see the battle animation of Cherrim's Sunshine Form in Generation IV, as Cherrim sent from a Poké Ball will always be sent out in Overcast Form, and Cherrim is not available in the wild in Generation IV. A Ditto that transforms into Cherrim, however, will play the animation of the alternate form if it escapes from a thrown Poké Ball. In Generations I and II, since most Pokémon can use Transform via Mimic and keep their original color palette while transformed, it is possible to see several color palettes applied to any Pokémon. For example, if a Pikachu, Bulbasaur, or Charmeleon uses Transform (via Mimic), it becomes a yellow, green, or red version of the target, respectively. In these generations, the Pokémon images and their color palettes are stored separately in the game data, so the palettes are able to be arbitrarily applied to each Pokémon. There is no need to store repeated Pokémon images with different colors in the internal data. From Generation III to V, a transformed Pokémon may legitimately have up to 765 EVs (if it has 255 HP EVs, and the target Pokémon has 510 EVs other than HP). Similarly, from Generation VI onwards, a transformed Pokémon may legitimately have up to 762 EVs (if it has 252 HP EVs, and the target Pokémon has 510 EVs other than HP). In the German version of the Generation II games, this move was renamed from Wandler into Verwandler. The reason for this is unknown. Even though the difference in meaning is minimal, this change was retracted in the following generations. In some Pokémon media, Ditto is known to transform into humans. This happened in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and Pokémon GO, as well as in volume 2 of The Electric Tale of Pikachu, in the Pokémon Newspaper Strip, and in POKÉMON Detective Pikachu.

Title: Bubble (move)

Bubble (Japanese: あわ Bubble) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. Bubble's power is 20. Bubble inflicts damage and has a 33.2% chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 24.9%). Bubble now has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. When used by an in-game opponent, there is still an additional chance of 25% for the effect to fail (resulting in an effective chance of 7.5%). This does not apply when Lock-On or Mind Reader are in effect, nor in the Battle Tower. Bubble's effect no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. Bubble targets both opposing Pokémon in Double Battles. In a Triple Battle, Bubble will only hit opposing adjacent Pokémon. Bubble can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Bubble's power changed from 20 to 40. In Horde Encounters, it will target all opponents. Bubble deals damage, and may lower the target's Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Speed. In the dubbed version of Bye Bye Psyduck, Marina commanded her Starmie to use Bubble, despite Starmie being unable to learn the move. In the original version, it was commanded to use Bubble Beam instead. In the dubbed version of Enter The Dragonite, Ash commanded his Squirtle to use Bubble. In the original version, it was commanded to use Bubble Beam instead. In Noibat Stands in the Way, Tierno told his Corphish to use Bubble, but it was unable to hear him and did not perform the move. In The Delivery of Rotom and the Girl, Professor Kukui told his Popplio to use Bubble, but the move was executed off-panel. However, Popplio is unable to learn Bubble.

Title: Dizzy Punch (move)

Dizzy Punch (Japanese: ピヨピヨパンチ Chirp Chirp Punch) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Kangaskhan. Dizzy Punch inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Dizzy Punch now also has a 20% chance of confusing the target. Dizzy Punch deals damage and may leave the target confused. Dizzy Punch's Japanese name refers to the tweeting of birds associated with "cartoon" dizziness.

Title: Spore (move)

Spore redirects here. For the Ability named Spore in Japanese, see Effect Spore (Ability). Spore (Japanese: キノコのほうし Mushroom Spore) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Paras and Parasect. In the Generation I handheld games only, Spore can affect a target behind a substitute. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Spore, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Spore cannot affect targets with Insomnia or Vital Spirit as their Ability. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding the Safety Goggles are now immune to Spore. Pokémon under the effect of Sweet Veil are also unaffected by Spore. Spore can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Spore, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Spore targets all enemies in the room and puts them to sleep if possible. Spore is the only sleep-inducing status move with 100% accuracy. Only odd-numbered generations have introduced Pokémon able to learn Spore (if Smeargle's use of Sketch is not taken into account), and every odd-numbered generation has introduced at least one. All Pokémon that naturally learn Spore are associated with mushrooms. This is because its Japanese name is Mushroom Spore (キノコのほうし). The reference to mushrooms are reinforced in the move description in Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Stadium 2, while the move animation depicts a mushroom emitting spores from Generation VII onwards.

Title: Flash (move)

This article is about the move Flash. For the field move, see Field Move (Ranger). Flash (Japanese: フラッシュ Flash) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It was HM05 from Generations I to III and TM70 from Generations IV to VI, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Flash decreases the target's accuracy stat by one stage. The accuracy of Flash is 70%. In the Generation I and II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Flash, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Flash no longer has an additional chance to fail when used by an in-game opponent. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Flash, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. In certain games, Flash requires a specific badge to use outside of battle; the Boulder Badge, Zephyr Badge, or Knuckle Badge. Flash can be used to illuminate a dark cave. Flash is available from the party screen if the player is currently in a dark area within the cave. Flash's effect remains even if the player travels between any areas of the cave (including any areas that would be naturally illuminated without the use of Flash). It also remains if the player continues a game saved in a cave illuminated by Flash. Once the player exits the cave, it will be dark again when the player re-enters it. In Generation I only, if Flash is used anywhere other than in a currently dark cave, the message "A blinding Flash lights the area!" still appears even though the move will have no effect. From Generation II onwards, Flash is not usable if it will have no effect. Flash will only illuminate a large circle around the player to increase visibility in caves. In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and Pokémon Platinum, it will light up the entire screen as it did in Generation I. In Pokémon X and Y, as there are no dark caves to be found, Flash will instead cause the screen to zoom out, revealing more of the surrounding area than normally is visible. In addition, it also decreases the chance of encountering wild Pokémon. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, dark areas where Flash can be used to light up the surroundings are present once again. However, in this game the dark areas are shown to be more dimly lit rather than completely dark, making the move even less needed than before. In X and Y, Flash may be used to zoom out the perspective in the following caves: Flash is no longer usable outside of battle. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, the player can use Secret Technique Light Up instead. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Flash can once again be used outside of battle to illuminate dark caves. In Pokémon Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, Flash grants access to a hidden room in Ruins of Alph. In Pokémon Emerald, using Flash in the Ancient Tomb grants access to a chamber where the player finds Registeel. In Pokémon Black and White, Flash grants access to the 3rd floor of the Abyssal Ruins. Flash is never required to advance gameplay, as darkened caves are still navigable without the move. There are puzzles that require it, though none of these are mandatory to complete. Flash is the only HM move that can be used outside of battle in Generation I, yet cannot be selected in battle in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Psywave (move)

Psywave (Japanese: サイコウェーブ Psycho Wave) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM46 in Generation I. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Misdreavus, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Psywave inflicts a random amount of damage, varying between 1 damage and 1.5× the user's level when used by the player, and between 0 damage and 1.5× the user's level when used by the opponent. If a 0 is generated in a link battle, it causes the games to desynchronize as the target will receive 0 damage on the opponent's game, while the user's side will keep generating pseudorandom numbers until it produces a number between 1 and 1.5× the user's level. Additionally, the game will softlock if a Level 0, 1, or 171 Pokémon uses the move, though Pokémon cannot normally be obtained at these levels without the use of glitches. In Pokémon Stadium, Psywave always deals at least 1 damage. Psywave inflicts a random amount of damage, varying between 1 HP and 1.5× the user's level. The damage is always rounded down; however, Psywave will always deal at least 1 HP of damage. Psywave does not take weaknesses or resistances into account, but type immunity is not ignored. Psywave inflicts damage equal to ⌊Leveluser×(10r+50)100⌋, where r is a random number from 0 to 10. However, if this calculation produces a value of 0, Psywave deals 1 HP of damage instead. Psywave can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. Psywave inflicts damage equal to ⌊Leveluser×(r+50)100⌋, where r is a random number from 0 to 100. However, if this calculation produces a value of 0, Psywave deals 1 HP of damage instead. Psywave deals a variable amount of damage depending on the user's level. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the move will deal damage between 1/2 and 383/256 (~1.49×) of the user's level. It is affected by type matchup and STAB unlike in the main series. Before accounting for type matchup and STAB, the move is guaranteed to deal at least 1 HP of damage, but no more than 199 (although that number is impossible to achieve under normal gameplay). In Super Mystery Dungeon, Psywave is no longer affected by type matchup. The move will deal damage approximately between 1 HP damage to 1.5× the user's level. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Jessie told her Seviper to use Psywave, but since Seviper cannot learn the move, it couldn't execute it. In Generation I, Psywave was responsible for two glitches, one of which could desynchronize games connected for a link battle in normal gameplay.

Title: Splash (move)

Splash (Japanese: はねる Hop) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation II, it was the signature move of Magikarp. Splash has no effect whatsoever. It simply displays a dipping animation and a text message informing the player that nothing happened. In Generation I, the message is "No effect!". Generation II onwards state "But nothing happened.", with an exclamation mark replacing the period starting in Generation III. Splash cannot be used when Gravity is in effect. If the user has no other usable moves besides Splash when Gravity is in effect, it will use Struggle. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Splash, the user's Attack stat rises by three stages. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Splash causes the user move to a random adjacent tile, possibly cutting a corner. If the user comes into contact with another Pokémon, both Pokémon receive 5 HP damage and the user returns to the tile it used the move from. In Gates to Infinity, the move has no effect whatsoever. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the user jumps over up to three Pokémon directly in front of it, moving to the tile on the other side. The move can be used while Stuck, but does not cure the status. It can also disrupt enemies tracking the Pokémon's movement. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon, the move has no effect whatsoever. Splash does nothing but show an animation. The user can choose which direction to perform it in, which will leave the user facing that direction after Splash is performed. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Splash could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Splash could be seen as a move used by opposing Magikarp, Hoppip, Spoink, and Cosmog. In Pokémon Pokopia, Jump is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Magikarp in Withered Wasteland. It appears to be based on Splash, given its heavy association with Magikarp. It grants Ditto the ability to jump by pressing R. While its English name (coupled with its Generation IV and Generation V animation) suggests an association with water, its Japanese name, はねる haneru, can mean both splash and hop, but usually the latter. This explains why the move can be learned by Pokémon such as Spoink and Hoppip—species who have no association with water but are known for hopping or jumping—and why it is disabled by Gravity. Nob Ogasawara, the translator for Pokémon Red and Blue, was aware of the mistranslation and suggested the name "Flop" instead, but was overruled by higher-ups. In the animated series, Splash is the most common result of Metronome. Splash and the event-exclusive moves Celebrate and Hold Hands are the only moves in the core series Pokémon games that have no effect whatsoever. Splash is the only obtainable move in Pokémon GO to have a different type than in the core series games.

Title: Acid Armor (move)

Acid Armor (Japanese: とける Liquefy) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation I. Acid Armor increases the user's Defense by two stages. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Acid Armor, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Generation I only, Acid Armor appears to make user invisible for the duration of the current battle, although this has no effect in gameplay. The user's sprite disappears if the battle animations are active, unless the move fails because the user's Defense has already been raised six stages. The invisible Pokémon becomes visible again if it uses Minimize (turning into a small Minimize sprite), Substitute (being replaced by a Substitute), or Transform (being transformed into the same species as the target), or after it faints, switches out, or the battle ends. It also remains visible in the summary. If a Pokémon with an active Substitute uses Acid Armor, the Substitute becomes invisible. However, the Pokémon will appear visible once it uses any move (because the visible Pokémon appears from behind the Substitute to use the move), and the Substitute becomes visible at this point as well. The Pokémon also appears visible if the Substitute breaks. If a Pokémon uses Transform on an invisible target, the invisibility is ignored and the user will become a visible copy of the target. Acid Armor raises the user's Defense by two stages. The stat returns to normal when the user moves to the next floor or steps on a Wonder Tile.

Title: Crabhammer (move)

Crabhammer (Japanese: クラブハンマー Crab Hammer) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Krabby and Kingler. Crabhammer deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Crabhammer has 90 base power and 85% accuracy. Crabhammer can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance or Swords Dance was used in the previous turn. Crabhammer inflicts damage. The move has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). In Pokémon GO, Crabhammer is a Charged Attack that has been available since August 23, 2019. In Stick This in Your Craw, Crawdaunt! II, a wild Crawdaunt was revealed to know Crabhammer by Ruby's Pokédex.

Title: Explosion (move)

Explosion (Japanese: だいばくはつ Giant Explosion) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. It is TM47 in Generation I and is TM64 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Explosion inflicts damage, and causes the user to faint. Sturdy or a held Focus Band or Focus Sash does not prevent the user from fainting. This move cannot be used when a Pokémon with the Ability Damp is on the field. Though its power is listed as 170, the target's Defense will be halved during damage calculation (unless it is at a value of 1), effectively doubling the power to 340. The user of Explosion will faint even if the attack misses or the opponent is immune to it (due to being Ghost type). If Explosion breaks a target's substitute, the user will not faint, though its sprite will be replaced by a blank image. If the user of Explosion had a substitute at the time of such a situation, uses Substitute later, or switches out, its regular sprite will once again become visible. If the user of Explosion attacks first and faints itself, the opponent will not act or be subjected to recurrent damage during that turn. In Pokémon Stadium, if Explosion breaks a target's substitute, the user will faint. The base power listed in Stadium is the one after halving Defense, i.e. 340. Explosion's power is increased to 250. The target's Defense is still halved, effectively doubling the power to 500. The user of Explosion will now faint even if the target is behind a substitute, or is protected against it. If the user of Explosion attacks first and faints itself, the opponent will not attack this turn, but is subjected to end-of-turn damage such as from sandstorm. Unlike in the previous game, Stadium 2 lists Explosion's power before halving Defense. If Explosion is selected, but fails due to confusion, then the user takes more confusion damage as well. The user's sprite no longer disappears upon using the move. If the user of Explosion attacks first and faints itself, all other Pokémon may still attack this turn. If all targets of Explosion have already fainted this turn such that there is no target when Explosion is being executed, Explosion will fail and the user will not faint. Explosion's temporary Defense drop no longer boosts confusion damage. Explosion no longer halves the target's Defense. The user faints before dealing damage, unlike in previous generations. If all targets of Explosion have already fainted this turn such that there is no target when Explosion is being executed, the user of Explosion will now faint regardless. Explosion returns to damaging the target before the user faints. Explosion can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Block, Mean Look or Spider Web were used in the prior turn. If used in a Max or Tera Raid Battle, Explosion fails, and the user does not faint. Explosion causes a 5×5 explosion centered on the user, that targets all Pokémon in the range; ally or enemy. From Super Mystery Dungeon, the move is instead classified as a status move and the user will first give itself the Explosion status condition. With this, the user will only explode if attacked on the next turn. Regardless of the user, the explosion deals 40 HP damage to enemy Pokémon and halves the current HP of the player's Pokémon (dealing at least 1 HP of damage). Fire-type take half the usual damage from Explosion. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the explosion will immediately defeat enemies in range, though Fire-type enemy Pokémon will only lose 50% of their HP. Damage to the player is the same as in previous games. Explosion also destroys all items and wall tiles (other than those on the edge of the floor and in locked chambers) in range. It does not destroy walls in Gates to Infinity. This move cannot be used if the current weather on the floor is rain, or if there is a Pokémon with Damp somewhere on the floor. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Super Mystery Dungeon, the move's range is unchanged, however as it is calculated from the user's center, Explosion will only affect the one tile around the user. This move is only known by certain opponents. The only playable sync pairs that can use this move use it via the skill Last Word. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The user faints after using it. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The user faints after using this move. In Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie, a Golem that Noland was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Explosion by Emerald's Pokédex. In Farewell To Pikachu?!, Black mentioned that his Electrode had used Explosion, but the move was executed off-panel. Explosion is the only move with a base power of 250. It has the highest base power of all moves with fixed base power, surpassing even Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. However, other moves can reach a higher base power than Explosion under certain conditions: Last Respects can reach the highest base power of all moves if Pokémon faint 100 times on the user's side, with 5050. This can be done by using reviving items on fainted Pokémon and having them faint again. Rollout and Ice Ball can reach 960, if Defense Curl is used before. Stored Power and Power Trip can reach 860 if all of the user's stats are raised by six stages each. If the user has been hit six times, Rage Fist will reach a power of 350. If Stockpile is used three times before Spit Up is used, the latter will reach a base power of 300. If Explosion is upgraded into the Z-Move Breakneck Blitz, Breakneck Blitz will have a lower base power than Explosion (200 versus Explosion's 250). In Generation I, if Selfdestruct or Explosion knocks out the last remaining Pokémon on both sides of the field simultaneously, the player will black out as normal, but the victory music still plays. Self-Destruct, Explosion, and Misty Explosion are the only three damaging moves whose battle animations play out even if they would miss or have no effect. All Pokémon that can have the Ability Aftermath can learn Explosion.

Title: Fury Swipes (move)

Fury Swipes (Japanese: みだれひっかき Fury Swipes) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. Fury Swipes inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, each successive one will deal the same amount of damage. In this generation only, Fury Swipes will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. All strikes now do damage independently, enabling any of them to be critical hits. Fury Swipes may now continue attacking after breaking a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Fury Swipes if it does not miss. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Fury Swipes can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Scratch was used in the previous turn. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 20% base miss chance) is now 44.6. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. Fury Swipes inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (1% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In The Breeding Center Secret, Cassidy planned to teach a stolen Sandshrew Fury Swipes to make it more useful. In the English dub of The Ties That Bind, Ash commanded his Heracross to use Fury Swipes, which it cannot legally learn. In the original Japanese version, Ash instead commanded Heracross to use Fury Attack. Fury Swipes is one of two moves in the main series games to have a base power that is not a multiple of 5, the other being Comet Punch. Pin Missile was a third until its base power was increased to 25 in Generation VI. As Comet Punch's power was increased to 30 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Fury Swipes is the only move not to have a base power ar a multiple of 5 in any core series game. From Generation V onwards, Fury Swipes has the lowest accuracy of all multistrike moves, at 80%.

Title: Bonemerang (move)

Bonemerang (Japanese: ホネブーメラン Bone Boomerang) is a damage-dealing Ground-type multistrike move introduced in Generation I. It is one of the signature moves of Cubone and Marowak. Bonemerang inflicts damage, hitting the target twice per use. Although only the first strike can be a critical hit, the second one will deal the same amount of damage. Bonemerang will end immediately if the first strike breaks a substitute. Bide will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. Each strike now does damage independently, consequently enabling either of them to be critical. Bonemerang will now hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Bonemerang can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Bone Club and Bone Rush to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Bone Club or Bone Rush was used in the previous turn. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Bonemerang could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in previous generations. Bonemerang strikes the enemy twice. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Pokémon faints from the first projectile, the second projectile will be able to hit a new target, and is still executed if a Reviver Seed activates. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Bonemerang is the Power Card belonging to Cubone. Once per game, the player using Cubone may force an opponent to pay double the rent on one of their properties when they land on it.

Title: Rest (move)

Rest (Japanese: ねむる Rest) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation I. TM44 from Generation I to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM05 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Rest causes the user to fall asleep, restoring its HP to its maximum amount. The user is unable to use moves while asleep for 2 turns after the turn when Rest is used. If a Pokémon with the Early Bird Ability uses Rest, it will spend one fewer turn asleep (being able to attack two turns after Rest is used). Rest cures the user of any other existing non-volatile status condition (poison, paralysis, burn, or freeze) once it falls asleep. However, it does not affect any volatile ones such as confusion, infatuation, seeding, etc. Rest works normally even if the user is affected by Safeguard. The user has Insomnia or Vital Spirit, as these Abilities prevent them from falling asleep. The user has Comatose, which causes it to be treated as if it is already sleeping. The user has Purifying Salt, which grants immunity to non-volatile status conditions (including sleep). In Generations III–IV only, if the user has Soundproof, then Rest can be used while Uproar is in effect. The user has Leaf Guard during harsh sunlight (Generation V onward). The user is grounded while Electric Terrain or Misty Terrain is in effect. If the user is affected by Heal Block, this move cannot be used. In this case, if there are no other moves available, it will use Struggle. In the handheld Generation I games only, a glitch causes the stat reductions associated with paralysis and burn to remain despite the fact that the Pokémon no longer has that status, though this can be alleviated by switching out. In Pokémon Stadium and later games, Rest will reset stat reductions from major status conditions. In the handheld Generation I games only, if a Pokémon that has been badly poisoned by Toxic successfully uses Rest, it will be cured of poison, but Toxic's counter is not reset; if it then suffers burn, Leech Seed or poison damage, that damage will be calculated with the formula for bad poison, still being calculated as N * x, and the N value will still increase by 1 each time (however, if the Pokémon is poisoned with Toxic, the N value will be reset to 1). In the handheld Generation I games only, Rest will also fail if the difference between the user's maximum HP and current HP leaves a remainder of 255 when divided by 256 (such as 255 or 511). In this generation only, Rest can be used through Sleep Talk. It will work as usual, restoring the user's HP and resetting the number of turns the user will remain asleep. Rest now fails if it is used via Sleep Talk, regardless of the user's HP. Rest can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Sleep Talk and Snore to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Belly Drum, Charm, or Yawn was used in the previous turn. Rest can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Sleep Talk and Snore to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Rest, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Rest restores 75% of the user's total HP and makes the user drowsy for four turns. Rest causes the user to start napping for 2-3 / 6 / 5 turns. When the status ends, the user's HP is restored, its status conditions cured, and move seals removed. If the user is forcibly woken up (such as by Uproar), the effect will not take place. The move is affected by Snatch. Rest is Jigglypuff's down special. Unlike its counterpart in the Pokémon games, rather than healing the player, Jigglypuff falls asleep to attack. A "huge buildup of energy" forms at Jigglypuff's center at the exact moment it nods off, and this energy damages the opponent and launches them into the air. Prior to Super Smash Bros. Brawl, this also sets said opponent on fire but from Super Smash Bros. Brawl onwards it plants a damage-inflicting flower on their head. The move is incredibly strong. For example, it almost always KOs the opponent in Melee. The range of this attack is very strict, with the hitbox placed at the center of Jigglypuff's body. An opponent next to Jigglypuff will not be hit, the two kind of have to overlap. Jigglypuff stays asleep for a short time after using Rest, during which it can take no further actions. If the attack missed, this leaves Jigglypuff very vulnerable, just like how a sleeping Pokémon is open to attacks. In Ursaring Major, Gold mentioned that a wild Slowpoke knew Rest, but the move was never used. In Gotcha Where I Wantcha, Glalie, a Glalie that Noland was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Rest by Emerald's Pokédex. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Crystal's Blissey was revealed to know Rest by Emerald's Pokédex. Rest is the only move that inflicts a non-volatile status condition and targets the user. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, according to Webster's friend, "Rest" is a contraction of "recover fast". In the Japanese version, he claims that 「ぐっすり」 (as in the phrase ぐっすり眠(ねむ)る to sleep soundly) is a contraction of 「グッドスリープ」 (good sleep). The English manual for Pokémon Yellow mentions that "Rest's number of turns is changed to between 1 and 3" when used in Colosseum 2. This is not the case. If a Shedinja uses Rest, it will always fail due to the fact that a non-fainted Shedinja always has full HP (1 HP). Rest has been a near-universal TM for the longest time, being the only one to appear in all generations so far.

Title: Rock Slide (move)

Rock Slide (Japanese: いわなだれ Rock Slide) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation I. TM80 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM22 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and Pokémon Sword and Shield. Rock Slide deals damage with no additional effect. Rock Slide inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing each target to flinch. In battles with multiple opponents, Rock Slide targets all adjacent opponents. Rock Slide will also destroy certain natural objects found in the background of battles. Rock Slide can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Rock Throw was used in the previous turn. Like all other moves in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Rock Slide only hits one target. Rock Slide creates a group of rock projectiles that fall from above the target; the grouping is set upon completion of the wind-up animation and does not follow the target's movement. Should any of the rocks strike an enemy, that enemy takes the full damage of the move and flinch chance is calculated at that time. No extra damage or chances to flinch will occur if a target is struck by extra rocks. Rock Slide deals damage and may cause the target to flinch. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Shuckle was revealed to know Rock Slide by Emerald's Pokédex. In Goodbye to a Peaceful Village!, Ginji and Mudkip combined their respective Flamethrower and Water Gun to create a Rock Slide, which they used to defeat Moltres. In Generation I, Rock Slide was the only Rock-type TM. In the Japanese versions of Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, and Yellow, the girl who gives the player TM48 in exchange for a Soda Pop states that Rock Slide can sometimes cause the enemy to faint (Japanese: たまに あいてを きぜつ させる). In the English version of Pokémon Red and Blue, she makes no reference to fainting, but instead says Rock Slide can "spook the target sometimes". This may be a reference to flinching, even though the move could not cause flinching until Generation II. This quote is omitted in the English version of Pokémon Yellow. In Generation II, Champion Lance's Aerodactyl knows Rock Slide, despite the fact that it couldn't learn the move prior to Generation III. Rock Slide is the only Rock-type move capable of making the target flinch. Cornerstone Mask Ogerpon and Iron Boulder are the only Rock types that are unable to learn Rock Slide.

Title: Hyper Fang (move)

Hyper Fang (Japanese: ひっさつまえば Certain-kill Fang) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation IV, it was one of the signature moves of Rattata and Raticate. Hyper Fang deals damage and has a 10% chance of causing the target to flinch. Hyper Fang gains a 50% power boost when used by a Pokémon with Strong Jaw. Hyper Fang is programmed into Pokémon Sword and Shield, but cannot be selected in a battle as no available Pokémon can learn it. However, it can be called by Metronome. It has no animation, so the game will crash if battle effects are enabled. Hyper Fang inflicts damage and may flinch the target. This move is affected by Muzzled status condition in the Rescue Team and Explorers series. Despite its Japanese name, Hyper Fang is not a one-hit knockout move. Excluding signature moves, Hyper Fang is the only move that can only be used through Metronome in Generation VIII. An unused animation of Hyper Fang exists in the code of Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl; the animation differs in appearance from previous games.

Title: Sharpen (move)

Sharpen (Japanese: かくばる Improve Angles) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Porygon. Sharpen increases the user's Attack stat by one stage. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Sharpen, the user's Attack rises by another stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sharpen could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sharpen could be seen as a move used by Boss Porygon.

Title: Conversion (move)

Conversion (Japanese: テクスチャー Texture) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation IX, it was one of the signature moves of Porygon's evolutionary line. Conversion changes the user's type to the target's current type(s). The user's original type(s) are restored once it is switched out, faints, or the current battle ends. This move can be used repeatedly even if the user and target already have the same type(s). In the summary screen, the user is shown with its original type(s), unaffected by Conversion. Conversion changes the user's type to match the type of one of the user's moves (including Conversion itself). Conversion is unable to copy the type of a move that matches any of the Pokémon's current types. If all moves match any of the Pokémon's current types, Conversion will fail. Conversion cannot be used on Curse in order to turn into a ???-type Pokémon. If the user's only other moves are Shadow moves and the user is currently a Normal type, Conversion will fail. Conversion can now be used on Curse, which is now a Ghost-type move. Conversion now changes the user's current type to match the type of the move the user has in its first move slot (even if that move cannot be selected in battle). If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Conversion, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Conversion could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in the preceding two generations. Conversion causes the user to changes its type to match one of its moves, even if already of that type. From Super Mystery Dungeon, the move chosen will be the one at the top of the list of moves the user knows. Conversion accounts for the actual type of Hidden Power, Natural Gift and Weather Ball (except Weather Ball is treated as Normal-type prior to the Explorers series). The move Reflect Type, introduced in Generation V, has the same effect Conversion has in Generation I. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, Conversion's move description erroneously says an own move's type instead of a known move's type. This error was fixed in Pokémon Emerald. Conversion is one of three moves that have been used in a completed series of the animated series, but not been seen in the English dub. The other two are Minimize and Ion Deluge.

Title: Tri Attack (move)

Tri Attack (Japanese: トライアタック Tri Attack) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. TM28 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Tri Attack inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Tri Attack does damage and has a 20% chance of either paralyzing, freezing, or burning the target. Each ailment has an equal chance of being inflicted. Tri Attack can paralyze Electric types, burn Fire types, and freeze Ice types. Tri Attack has a 1/3 chance of thawing a frozen target. Tri Attack can no longer burn Fire types or freeze Ice types. Tri Attack can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Lock-On was used in the previous turn. Tri Attack can no longer paralyze Electric-types due to them now being immune to paralysis. Tri Attack deals damage and may leave the target paralyzed, burned, or frozen. In Pokémon GO, Tri Attack is a Charged Attack that has been available since September 20, 2020. This is a Flying-type move when used by Skyla (Holiday 2020) & Togekiss due to their passive skill Flying Shift. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of leaving the target burned, paralyzed, or frozen. In The Truth About The Mysterious Whirl Islands!!, Gold's Croconaw, Pikachu, and Chris's Cyndaquil formed Tri Attack by combining their attacks.

Title: Super Fang (move)

Super Fang (Japanese: いかりのまえば Fangs of Wrath) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Prior to Generation IV, it was one of the signature moves of Rattata and Raticate. It is TM183 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Super Fang deals damage equal to 50% of the target's current HP, rounded down. It always deals at least 1 HP of damage. Super Fang can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Scary Face was used in the previous turn. In Generations III and IV, Super Fang is not affected by King's Rock. Super Fang targets an enemy in front and halves their HP. Unlike in the main series, it is unable to KO a target that is at 1 HP, and will instead fail to work. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In The Fortune Hunters, Cassidy commanded her Raticate to use Super Fang, but the attack was disrupted by James's Victreebel's Stun Spore.

Title: Slash (move)

Slash redirects here. For the Ultra Beast codenamed UB Slash in Japanese, see Kartana (Pokémon). Slash (Japanese: きりさく Slash) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. Slash deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Slash can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Scratch or Swords Dance was used in the previous turn. Slash deals damage. This move has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). When used by a gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Slash has an increased base PP of 20, but a lower base accuracy of 90%. This is a Ground-type move when used by Cynthia & Mega Garchomp due to their passive skill Ground Shift. This is a Bug-type move when used by Scottie/Bettie & ScytherEgg with the passive skill Bug Shift. This is a Flying-type move and never misses when used by Lance & Charizard due to their passive skill Dragon's Ascent. In the English dubs of Tracey Gets Bugged and The Rivalry Revival, Tracey told his Scyther to use Slash. This is a dubbing error, as in the Japanese version, the commanded move was Cut on both occasions. Silver told his Totodile to use Slash in Bellsprout Rout, but the move was executed off-panel. In Getting the Drop on Gallade I, a Zangoose used in the Battle Castle was revealed to know Slash, but it was never seen using the move. All of the variations of this move involve cutting or slashing. With a total of seven, Slash is learned by more Pokémon upon evolving than any other move. Prior to Generation V, Shedinja is able to know Slash by leveling up if Nincada is allowed to evolve only at level 31, as Ninjask learns this move at this level.

Title: Substitute (move)

If you were looking for the doll produced by the move Substitute, see Substitute (doll). Substitute (Japanese: みがわり Substitute) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation I. TM90 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM08 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It was Mr. Mime's signature move in Generation II. By giving up 25% of its maximum HP (rounded down), the user creates a substitute. The substitute's HP is equal to the amount lost to create it (except in Generation I, where it is 1 HP higher). The move fails if the user already has a substitute. A substitute doll takes any damage the user would take instead, until it breaks. While a Pokémon has a substitute, it is not affected by many status moves used by other Pokémon, and the additional effects of other Pokémon's damaging moves often fail to affect it. Snatch will steal the effect of Substitute when it is used. The created substitute's HP is 1 greater than the amount of HP lost by the user. In the handheld Generation I games, if the user has exactly 25% of its maximum HP, it will create a substitute and immediately faint. In Pokémon Stadium, Substitute fails if the user has exactly 25% of its maximum HP. The created substitute's HP is equal to the HP lost when using Substitute. Substitute fails if the user does not have more than 25% of its maximum HP left (i.e. making a substitute would otherwise cause it to faint). Consequently, Substitute will always fail if used by Shedinja (who only has 1 HP). If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Substitute, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Substitute's health cost is 1/8 of the user's maximum HP. When used, it creates a substitute doll in front of the user to serve as an obstacle. The subsitute doll can be targeted by moves and destroyed by damaging moves, including by the user and other party Pokémon. Only one substitute per party can be active at a time. If Substitute is used while a substitute doll created by a Pokémon in the same party is active, the previous doll will be removed. When used as a Plus Move, Substitute creates a larger doll that takes more damage to break. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Substitute targets the Pokémon in front of them, ally or enemy, and inflicts the Decoy status condition on them. The Pokémon with this status will be preferentially attacked by allies and enemies. The status lasts for 21-50 turns. This move is affected by Snatch. From Gates to Infinity, Substitute instead causes the Substitute status by cutting the user's HP in half. The user will not be targeted by enemies, but the user cannot use moves or items, and cannot restore its HP naturally. If the user is attacked by a move (such as Earthquake which affects the whole room), Substitute will not protect the user from damage. The status lasts 11 turns. Substitute is Greninja's down special. The substitute doll it summons resembles those from the core series games, though it can also summon a log. The move functions as a counter, attacking opponents who hit Greninja while it is posing. There is a trophy of the substitute doll in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. If it looks like a Pokémon and it gets attacked like a Pokémon, it's probably a- Oh, no, it could also be a Substitute Doll. This cute plush figure appears out of nowhere when a Pokémon uses the move Substitute. Is that a smile on its face or a grimace of determination? Only the doll knows, and it's not telling. Substitute is the move used by Whimsicott when called as a Support Pokémon. It conjures up a set of three substitute dolls that rotate around the Battle Pokémon, blocking incoming projectile attacks. It also restores a little of the Battle Pokémon's HP. In addition to its usage as a move, Substitute Dolls appear on their own as part of the Practice Area mode. Shedinja can learn Substitute despite being incapable of using it, as its HP is too low to create a substitute. However, in the Mystery Dungeon series, it is able to use the move, due to being able to possess more than 1 HP. This move plays its animation even if the battle animations are turned off. In Generation I games, if the player used Substitute, then looked at the stats of a Pokémon in their party and then exited the menu, the opponent's Pokémon sprite would change to a glitchy version of the Pokémon that was just viewed. In Pokémon Crystal, if the opponent has a substitute and uses Baton Pass, the next Pokémon that switches in will produce a glitchy animation.

Title: Struggle (move)

Struggle (Japanese: わるあがき Vain Struggle) is a damage-dealing move introduced in Generation I. Every Pokémon can use Struggle when none of its moves are usable, although no Pokémon can naturally learn it. Struggle inflicts damage, and the user takes recoil damage. Struggle is capable of striking a critical hit. In Double Battles, its target is a randomly selected opponent. Struggle does not spend any PP. This move has a maximum PP value stored in the game data, but this is not shown to the player. Struggle cannot be learned like other moves, but it will be automatically used by any Pokémon that is ordered to attack when it has no usable moves. A move may not be currently usable because: It is blocked by the moves Disable, Gravity, Heal Block, Imprison, Taunt, Throat Chop, or Torment, by the Ability Cursed Body, or by the user's held choice item or Assault Vest. It has a restriction that prevents it from being selected in the current circumstances, such as with Belch and Blood Moon. It is prohibited in the current game mode, such as Sky Battle. If a Pokémon is forced to use a single move by Encore but that move runs out of PP, Encore's effect ends; otherwise, if the move affected by Encore is unavailable for other reasons, it will use Struggle. Struggle can hit through Wonder Guard. Struggle does not gain a boost from Reckless even though the user takes recoil damage. The user still takes recoil damage even if its Ability is Magic Guard or Rock Head. Struggle cannot be called by Assist, Me First, Metronome, or Sleep Talk, copied by Mimic, Sketch, Transform, or Imposter, repeated by a Pokémon as a result of Encore, Copycat, or a held choice item, or forced by Instruct. It cannot be blocked by means such as Disable, Imprison, or Cursed Body, or prevented from use multiple times in a row by Torment. Struggle is unaffected by a held Normal Gem, and does not consume it. Even if the user's moves have their types changed (such as from Electrify, Ion Deluge, Normalize, Pixilate, etc.), Struggle still deals typeless damage, and does not use or consume any type of Gem. When Struggle is used normally, it cannot gain or lose PP by any means, being unaffected by moves such as Grudge and Spite, or by items such as Ether or Leppa Berry. If a Pokémon is forced to use Struggle anywhere other than a Rotation Battle, selecting the Fight menu option will immediately lock in Struggle with no further inputs. As a result, it will not be able to Mega Evolve, Ultra Burst, use a Z-Move, Dynamax, or Terastallize on the same turn. If an already Dynamax Pokémon is forced to use Struggle, it will not turn into a Max Move. If a Pokémon in a Rotation Battle would be forced to use Struggle, selecting the Fight menu option will bring up the list of moves with Struggle superimposed over them as a special option, and the player still has the option to rotate to one of the other two Pokémon instead of selecting Struggle. If the Pokemon is capable of Mega Evolution, that button can still be selected alongside Struggle, despite not being possible in any other battle type. If the user of Struggle attacks first and knocks itself out due to recoil damage, the opponent will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. If Struggle breaks a substitute, the user will take no recoil damage. Self-inflicted recoil damage from Struggle from the previous turn can be countered if the opponent did not make a move on the following turn. In this generation, a Pokémon is permanently unable to use Struggle as long as any of its unused move slots has more than 0 PP in the internal game data. For instance, if a transformed Ditto uses Metronome or Mirror Move at least once in the gameplay, and this move is not in the first slot when used, then a glitch will increase the PP of Ditto's unused move slot. In all subsequent battles, if this Ditto is not transformed while Transform has 0 PP or is disabled, it will be unable to use Struggle nonetheless. This is not fixed by healing Ditto, but it can be fixed by using Metronome or Mirror Move a total of 256 times (possibly in multiple battles) in the same move slot while transformed, at which point the PP count will overflow to 0. In Stadium, Struggle can hit Ghost Pokémon, and no recoil damage is taken if Struggle knocks out an opponent. The user will take recoil damage even if Struggle breaks a substitute. Recoil damage is rounded down, but no less than 1. Struggle now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Struggle will activate a target's held Chilan Berry. Despite having a base power of 50 in every generation, Struggle's power is not boosted by Technician in Generation IV. Struggle's recoil calculation is now subject to standard rounding; for example, a Pokémon with 201 maximum HP using Struggle will have its recoil round down to 50, but 202 or 203 HP will round up to 51 recoil damage. If a Pokémon has Struggle in a standard moveslot (which is only possible by hacking), it can freely select that move once, even if a held Choice item is supposed to be locking it into a different move. After Struggle has been used this way, if all of its other moves also become unusable, it will attempt to use Struggle again on future turns, and this will fail with the message "But there was no PP left for the move!" Struggle cannot be learned like other moves, but it will be automatically used by any Pokémon that is ordered to attack when it has no usable moves. Struggle cannot be learned like other moves, but it will be automatically used when the Pokémon attempts to use one of its moves with no PP remaining for any of them (or if all usable moves are unselected in Rescue Team DX). The user receives recoil damage equal to ¼ of their maximum HP (20% in Gates to Infinity), so long as Struggle deals damage. In the Rescue Team and Explorers games, it deals Normal-type damage rather than typeless, much like in the Generation I core series games. In Gates to Infinity onward, the attack has perfect accuracy. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, the move can damage nearby enemies in a 1 tile range around the user, or enemies in a line if used by Lugia and Ho-Oh. It also deals 5% recoil damage, but cannot faint the user. The move has 5 power and 20 PP, but does not run out regardless. Unlike the core series, Struggle will not activate via other means, such as Encore. In Gates to Infinity onward, aside from the aforementioned, only team members (or the leader Pokémon in Rescue Team DX) can use Struggle; other Pokémon will default to the regular attack. Team members will use Struggle even if their moves are unselected. Struggle is the last Generation I move in index number order. Even though Struggle can only be accessed by the loss of all PP, it was given Contest, Super Contest, and Contest Spectacular stats. In Generation I, Struggle was the only move that could not be called via Metronome, besides Metronome itself. Struggle has the lowest base power of all recoil-causing moves. Because it deals typeless damage, Struggle is the only damaging Normal-type move which can hit a Ghost-type opponent under normal circumstances, except in Generation I, where it deals Normal-type damage instead. Along with Barrage and Kinesis, Struggle is one of three moves introduced in Generation I that have not been featured in the animated series. Of these moves, it was the only one to exist in Pokémon Sword and Shield prior to v1.2.0. Certain glitch Pokémon, including Generation IV hybrids, 'Ng'Mp, 'ゥ., and 4, ゥァ (DD), can learn Struggle by level up. Should a player hack Struggle onto a Pokémon, it will not be displayed correctly in Pokémon Stadium 2's lab (not the case for the previous game) and will be highlighted, as if it was a Generation II move. This does not happen when selecting a team for battle. In Pokémon Stadium, the move description erroneously states that Struggle inflicts recoil to the user equal to ¼ of the damage inflicted; the correct number in Generation I is ½. In Generation I, a glitch can occur making it impossible for a Pokémon to use Struggle if it has previously used Transform followed by either Metronome or Mirror Move. This renders the Pokémon completely unable to battle until its PP is restored. In the Raid Format of the Pokémon Trading Card Game, there is an optional rule called the Struggle Rule. If the Raid Boss Pokémon is unable to attack for two consecutive turns, this rule causes the Pokémon to select a random attack it has and use it even if the Pokémon does not have Energy attached to it that matches the cost of the attack. Pokémon Legends: Z-A is the only core series game in which Struggle is not present.

Title: Sketch (move)

Sketch (Japanese: スケッチ Sketch) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It is the signature move of Smeargle. Sketch allows the user to learn the target's last move permanently, replacing Sketch in the process. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Sketch is not affected by Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield. Sketch will fail if used against a target protected by Crafty Shield. Although they can be sketched, Aura Wheel, Hyperspace Fury, and Dark Void (starting in Generation VII) cannot be used in battle. These moves can only be used by Morpeko, Hoopa Unbound, or Darkrai respectively, or by a Pokémon that has transformed into them. These moves cannot be sketched: Chatter, Struggle, Sketch itself, Shadow moves, Z-Moves, and others depending on the generation. Sketch cannot be used to copy Transform or Mimic, and if used on Metronome, Mirror Move, or Sleep Talk it will copy the move called by those moves. Because the move fails if there is no target on the field (or the turn immediately ends in certain generations, such as Generation IV), Selfdestruct and Explosion also cannot be sketched. The move tries to copy a move the user already knows. The battle does not allow experience points to be earned (such as link battles or battle facility battles). If used by a transformed Pokémon, Sketch will allow the Pokémon to permanently learn the sketched move; this is known as the Sketch glitch. Sketch no longer copies the move called by another move: It now copies Mirror Move, Sleep Talk, and Metronome (instead of the move called by them). Selfdestruct and Explosion can now be copied if their execution was unsuccessful due to a Pokémon with the Damp Ability on the field. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire only, Sketch can copy a move a Pokémon attempted to use, but failed to due to sleep or other status conditions. This allows the moves Mimic and Transform to be copied (which otherwise cannot be). If the battle does not allow experience points to be earned (such as link battles or Battle Tower battles), any moveset changes caused by Sketch will be reverted at the end of the battle. A Pokémon somehow uses it without having Sketch in its current moveset. Sketch can now be used to copy Mimic and Transform like any other move (without the need for the move to fail). If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Sketch, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Sketch could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, Sketch is once again usable. Sketch can no longer copy Dark Void or Hyperspace Fury, nor can it copy the newly introduced moves Revival Blessing, Tera Starstorm, or the Starmobiles' signature moves. Despite being both inaccessible and unusable, Breakneck Blitz is also specified as a move that cannot be copied by Sketch. Sketch targets the Pokémon in front and will copy their last used move, replacing Sketch with it. Sketch does not copy the Ginseng boost. Sketch will fail if the target's last move had since been forgotten, or if it is Sketch or Struggle. In the Rescue Team series, Sketch cannot copy moves that call other moves (except Sleep Talk, Snatch, and Mirror Move); although Sketch can technically copy itself if bounced back by Mirror Move. From Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, the move can now sketch moves that call other moves. Sketch cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Sketch will always fail when used against Gigantic Pokémon, since they use completely different versions of the same move. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sketch could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sketch could be seen as a move used by opposing Smeargle. Sketch is the first Generation II move in index number order. Sketch holds the record for being learned the most times via leveling up by a single Pokémon, being learned ten times by Smeargle. It is also the only move that can be learned more than four times via leveling up. Sketch is one of two moves (excluding Struggle and Shadow moves), whose base PP is not a multiple of 5, the other being Revival Blessing.

Title: Triple Kick (move)

Triple Kick (Japanese: トリプルキック Triple Kick) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type multistrike move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VII and in Generation IX, it was the signature move of Hitmontop. Triple Kick inflicts damage, hitting the target up to three times per use. Its base power is 10. The damage will be multiplied by 2 on the second hit, and by 3 on the third hit. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final successful strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. The accuracy of the move is 90%. However, if the attack doesn't miss, the chance of the move hitting 1, 2 or 3 times is always 33.33% regardless. Instead of multiplying damage, the base power is incremented by 10 on each hit. This means that Triple Kick's second hit has a base power of 20, and the third hit has a base power of 30. Each of Triple Kick's strikes now has a separate accuracy check. If any strike fails, the move ends. Since each strike has 90% base accuracy, there is a: 72.9% chance that it will hit 3 times (for cumulative 60 base power), 8.1% chance that it will hit twice (for cumulative 30 base power), 9% chance that it will hit once (for 10 base power), With all three accuracy checks and base powers taken into account, the move's effective power is 47.07. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Triple Kick can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. If the user has the Ability Skill Link or is holding Loaded Dice, the move will have only one accuracy check. Triple Kick inflicts damage, hitting the target 3 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. Triple Kick's power will increase with each hit (2× and 3× damage multipliers for the second and third hits respectively). The move's base critical hit rate is lower than normal (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, the move's power does not increase, and if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. Along with Triple Axel and Population Bomb, it is one of only three multistrike moves whose chance to miss for successive hits are independent of the first hit. Triple Kick has the same description text as Triple Axel. Triple Kick is tied with Constrict for the move with the lowest base power (10) out of all damage-dealing moves, although this only applies to the first hit.

Title: Thief (move)

If you were looking for the character in Pokémon: Yeah! I Got Pokémon!, see Thief (GDZ47). Thief redirects here. For Thief status in Mystery Dungeon, see Kecleon Shop→Theft. Thief (Japanese: どろぼう Thief) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation II. TM46 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Thief inflicts damage and has a 99.6% chance to steal the target's held item if it has one, though only if the user does not have one. Thief cannot steal an item if it hits a Pokémon's substitute. Held Mail cannot be stolen. Wild Pokémon can steal the player's Pokémon's held items. However, as Thief was taught exclusively via TM in this generation, this is only legitimately possible with wild Ditto that used Transform on a player's Pokémon that knows Thief, or wild Smeargle that learned Thief via Sketch. In Link Battles, the Battle Tower, and the Trainer House, stolen items are returned at the end of the battle. Thief inflicts damage and steals the target's held item (if it has one). An item cannot be stolen if the target has the Sticky Hold Ability. Held e-Reader Berries and Mail cannot be stolen. Even if the user faints when using Thief (such as due to the target's Rough Skin), it still steals the target's held item. If Focus Band would activate from the damage inflicted by Thief, it will activate first and then be stolen. Wild Pokémon cannot steal the player's Pokémon's held items. In Link Battles, battle facilities (except the Battle Pyramid), and Secret Bases, stolen items are returned at the end of the battle (or the end of the challenge in the case of the Battle Pike). In Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD, when used by the opponent, Thief does not permanently steal items. Items cannot be stolen from Pokémon with the Ability Multitype. A held Griseous Orb cannot be stolen. If the target's consumable held item is triggered by Thief (such as a Colbur Berry or Focus Sash), it will now be consumed before it can be stolen. If the user faints when using Thief (such as due to the target's Rough Skin or Rocky Helmet), it cannot steal the target's held item. If Thief causes a Pokémon with the Sticky Hold Ability to faint, it can now steal its held item. Thief no longer steals a Trainer's Pokémon's items permanently; however, a wild Pokémon's item is still permanently stolen by the player. Thief can now steal a held Griseous Orb as long as neither the user nor the target is Giratina. Plates cannot be stolen if either the user or the target is Arceus (Multitype has no effect on Thief), and Drives cannot be stolen if either the user or the target is Genesect. Thief's power was changed from 40 to 60 and its PP was changed from 10 to 25. Thief cannot steal a Mega Stone or Orb if either the user or the target could use it to Mega Evolve or undergo Primal Reversion, a Z-Crystal from any Pokémon, a memory if either the user or the target is Silvally, the Rusted Sword if either the user or the target is Zacian, the Rusted Shield if either the user or the target is Zamazenta, or a Booster Energy if either the user or the target is a Paradox Pokémon (excluding Koraidon and Miraidon). When used in a Max Raid Battle, no matter if the target is the raid boss or one of the player's own teammates, Thief fails entirely, without dealing damage. Thief now deposits items stolen from wild Pokémon directly into the player's Bag. Thief cannot steal a Wellspring Mask, Hearthflame Mask, or Cornerstone Mask if either the user or the target is Ogerpon. Thief inflicts damage and steals the target's held item if the user isn't holding one. If the target faints, the item will drop on the floor as normal. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Thief is the Power Card belonging to Meowth. Immediately after an opponent purchases a property, the player using Meowth may steal the property from that player. Like all other Power Cards, this effect may only be used once per game. In Pokémon Black and White, Minccino is able to learn Thief via TM while its evolved form, Cinccino, is not. This is an error and is corrected in Black 2 and White 2.

Title: Spider Web (move)

Spider Web (Japanese: クモのす Spider Web) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Spinarak and Ariados. Spider Web prevents the target from switching out or fleeing (including via Teleport). It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Spider Web's effect only applies as long as the Pokémon that used it remains in battle. It will hit the target even if it has used Protect or Detect. The affected Pokémon can still switch out via Baton Pass, but in that case, the Pokémon that switches in will now be affected. Conversely, the Pokémon that used Spider Web can switch out with Baton Pass and the effects of Spider Web will still apply. Also, if the affected Pokémon is Roared at or hit with a Whirlwind, they will still be switched out. If a wild Pokémon uses Spider Web on the player's Pokémon, the player will be unable to escape. Pokémon affected by Spider Web can escape (but not switch out) if the Pokémon has the Ability Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. It is now blocked by Protect, Detect and Crafty Shield. Pokémon affected by Spider Web can now switch out with U-turn. Spider Web can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if String Shot was used in the previous turn. If a Pokémon traps a target with Spider Web and then switches with Baton Pass the target will no longer be trapped. Pokémon affected by Spider Web can switch out with Volt Switch. Also, Dragon Tail and Circle Throw will force the affected Pokémon to switch out. Pokémon affected by Spider Web can also switch out with Parting Shot. Spider Web can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving the user an extra three appeal points if String Shot was used in the prior turn. It can also be used to start a combination, causing certain moves (Explosion, Memento, Perish Song and Self-Destruct) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Spider Web, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Spider Web targets the enemy in front and inflicts the stuck status condition (previously Leg Hold and Shadow Hold). This status prevents the Pokémon from moving (but may attack) and unable to switch places with the team leader. From Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Ghost-type Pokémon cannot become stuck. This move is affected by Magic Coat. Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Spider Web could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Spider Web could be seen as a move used by Boss Ariados. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks. Since Generation VIII, it is the only one of Mean Look's variants that cannot be used in a battle.

Title: Mind Reader (move)

Mind Reader (Japanese: こころのめ Mind's Eye) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. After the user has used Mind Reader and until its effect ends (see table below), any accuracy check it makes against the same target will succeed; this means moves will not miss, even if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Although this effect means moves will not "miss", they can still fail for other reasons (such as being Protected, or Fake Out being used outside the first turn) or be redirected by move-drawing moves and Abilities. The damaging turn of Future Sight and Doom Desire counts as an accuracy check. Mind Reader will fail if the target is behind a substitute. *: This move bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In this generation only, this effect is implemented as a status attached only to the target, so any Pokémon who attacks the target next (not just the user) will receive the benefit of this effect. Also, when a move is used, this effect is checked after the following conditions: if Dream Eater is used against a non-sleeping target; if Protect or Detect is active; or if Dream Eater, Absorb, Mega Drain, Leech Life, or Giga Drain are targeting a Pokémon with a substitute. Therefore, if a move fails in those cases, Mind Reader's effect will remain in place. In this generation only, this effect will not allow the moves Earthquake, Fissure, or Magnitude to hit a Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly; the move will miss and Mind Reader's effect ends. (Type immunity is checked before Mind Reader's effect, so this mainly applies to Mew or a non-Flying-type Pokémon that calls Fly indirectly or via Mimic or Sketch.) Only one Pokémon at a time can have the effect of Mind Reader or Lock-On applied to a given target. If another Pokémon uses one of these moves on the same target, the effect will be overwritten for the previous Pokémon and be associated with the new Pokémon instead. Mind Reader can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing DynamicPunch, Hi Jump Kick, Jump Kick, Mega Kick, Mega Punch, and Submission to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Like in Generation III, only one Pokémon at a time can have the effect of Mind Reader or Lock-On applied to a given target. In this generation only, due to a glitch, if a move receives the effect of Mind Reader while the target is under the effect of protection, the move will ignore the protection with inverted accuracy. This does not apply to OHKO moves. Mind Reader can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing a one-hit knockout move to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Starting in Generation V, multiple Pokémon can have the effect of Mind Reader or Lock-On on the same target. Mind Reader will not fail if another Pokémon has used Mind Reader or Lock-On on the same target; it will only fail if the user already has the effect active on its current target. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Mind Reader, the user's Special Attack rises by one stage. Mind Reader causes the user to gain the Sure Shot status condition, making the user's moves ignore accuracy and evasion checks. This status condition lasts for 11-12 / 3 turns.

Title: Nightmare (move)

If you were looking for the Mystery Dungeon level, see The Nightmare. If you were looking for the Ability, see Bad Dreams. Nightmare (Japanese: あくむ Nightmare) is a non-damaging Ghost-type move introduced in Generation II. It is TM50 in Generation II. If the target is asleep, Nightmare afflicts the target with a status that causes it to take damage equal to one quarter of its maximum HP each turn. Nightmare inflicts damage after the afflicted Pokémon or its Trainer takes an action, unless its opponent faints (in which case Nightmare does not damage it that turn). If the Pokémon wakes up, the effect of Nightmare ends and does not reoccur if put back to sleep. Nightmare bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig or Fly. In Generation II only, due to an oversight, if an opponent cures their Pokémon of sleep with a Full Heal or Full Restore, it will not be cured of Nightmare even after waking up; this does not occur if the player cures their own Pokémon of sleep. A Pokémon afflicted by Nightmare takes damage at the end of each turn (even if the opponent fainted). In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire only, due to an oversight, if a Pokémon cures itself of sleep with Shed Skin, it will not be cured of Nightmare even after waking up. Nightmare can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Hypnosis was used in the previous turn. Nightmare can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if a sleep-inducing status move (except Psycho Shift and Rest) was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Nightmare, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Nightmare inflicts the Nightmare status condition, causing the target to fall asleep and deals 8 / 10 HP damage when waking up. The status lasts for 4-7 / 10 turns. The move can be reflected by Magic Coat from the Explorers series In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks.

Title: Flame Wheel (move)

Flame Wheel (Japanese: かえんぐるま Flame Wheel) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation II. Flame Wheel will thaw out the user if it is frozen, and then inflict damage on the target. Flame Wheel also has a 10% chance of burning the target. Flame Wheel can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Flame Wheel deals damage, and may leave the target with a burn. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Unfreezes the user. Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. Platinum's Ponyta was revealed to know Flame Wheel on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Prior to Generation IX, the Korean name of this move was mistranslated as the Japanese word くるま means both "wheel" and "car".

Title: Snore (move)

Snore (Japanese: いびき Snore) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM13 in Generation II and TM24 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Snore can only be used if the user is currently asleep; otherwise, it will fail. Snore inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. A Pokémon with the Ability Comatose is also treated as an asleep Pokémon, and can successfully use Snore (or Sleep Talk) without having the sleep status condition. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. If Sleep Talk or Snore is used at least once consecutively in the turns right before switching out, the Pokémon will sleep for the same amount of turns as were remaining prior to the usage of those two moves when switched back in. Snore can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Rest was used in the previous turn. Turns where Snore is used are always counted towards waking the Pokémon. Snore can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Snore can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Rest was used in the prior turn. Snore deals damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. Using it manually will have no effect, and the move will only work when the user is asleep. The move cannot be linked. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Snore will automatically be used if the Pokémon is asleep and attacked. Although it has a range of one tile, it will still trigger if the attacker is out of range. It is unaffected by the cowering and flinching (cringing) status conditions, but is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. This move will always be picked over Sleep Talk. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Snore is now automatically triggered when the user is asleep and an enemy is adjacent to the user. If both Sleep Talk and Snore are available in the Pokémon's moveset, the move which is listed first will be selected. All Pokémon with Insomnia or Vital Spirit that were previously able to learn Snore via Move Tutor in Pokémon Emerald were unable to do so from Pokémon Platinum until Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire.

Title: Curse (move)

Curse (Japanese: のろい Curse/Slow) is a non-damaging Ghost-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation V, it was a ???-type move, and the only move of that type. In all generations, Curse acts differently depending on whether the user has the Ghost type or not. Curse is only affected by the Pokémon's current type rather than its original type. Thus, if the user's type has changed (such as gaining the Ghost type from Trick-or-Treat, losing this type by becoming a pure Water-type from Soak, changing species by using Transform, or Terastallizing, the move will consider its current type rather than its previous one. The user will lose half of its maximum HP (rounded down) and put a curse on the target. If this causes the user's HP to drop to 0, the move will execute fully but cause the user to faint. A cursed Pokémon will lose ¼ of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. The curse will remain until the Pokémon switches out or the battle ends. However, if a Pokémon switches out with Baton Pass, it will be transferred to the Pokémon switched in. This move is not blocked by Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but is blocked by Crafty Shield. The user does not lose HP if Curse misses (due to a move with a semi-invulnerable turn), fails (due to the target already being affected by Curse), or is blocked by Crafty Shield. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Curse, the user restores all of its HP. The user's Speed stat will drop by one stage and its Attack stat and Defense stat will rise by one stage each. Despite being an effect acting on the user, this move will fail if there are no opponents on the field. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Curse, the user's Attack stat raises another stage. If used by a non-Ghost-type Pokémon, Curse will fail if the user's Attack and Defense stats both are at +6 stages, even if its Speed stat is not at -6 stages. If a cursed Pokémon defeats its opponent, it will not take curse damage on that turn. If used by a non-Ghost-type Pokémon, Curse can now reduce the user's Speed stat even if its Attack and Defense stats both are at +6 stages. (However, Curse will still fail if the user's Attack and Defense stats both are at +6 stages, and its Speed stat is at -6 stages.) If a cursed Pokémon defeats its opponent, it now takes curse damage on that turn. If the user changes type before using Curse, Curse will obey the user's type at the time of the move's execution. In a Double Battle, if the user gains the Ghost type before Curse executes, Curse will prioritize the opponent directly opposite the user as its target. Curse can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Destiny Bond, Grudge, Mean Look, and Spite to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. In this generation only, due to an oversight, if a Pokémon afflicted by Curse has used Rage and then selects a different move, it will be freed from the curse, but its rage will still be building. In a Triple Battle, if the user gains the Ghost type before Curse executes, Curse will prioritize the opponent directly opposite the user as its target. In a Single Battle, if the user is not already Ghost-type and becomes Ghost-type before executing Curse (due to Mega Evolution, Color Change, or Trick-or-Treat), Curse will execute as it does for all Ghost types, hurting the user and inflicting the curse. In a Triple Battle or Horde Encounter, if the user is not already Ghost-type and becomes Ghost-type before executing Curse (due to Mega Evolution, Color Change, or Trick-or-Treat), Curse will now target a random adjacent opponent. Due to a glitch, Curse can have an unusual behavior in some situations when the user has its type changed right before using the move. In a Double Battle, if the user is not already Ghost-type and becomes Ghost-type before executing Curse (due to Mega Evolution, Color Change, or Trick-or-Treat), Curse may target a different Pokémon depending on the user's position. If the user is on the right side (from its Trainer's perspective), Curse will target the user's ally (or fail if there is none). If the user is on the left side (from its Trainer's perspective) Curse will target a random opponent. Follow Me and Rage Powder will still redirect Curse as normal. If the user is not already Ghost-type and becomes Ghost-type due to Protean upon executing Curse, the user will use the Ghost-type Curse on itself (regardless of Follow Me or Rage Powder). This cannot be blocked by Crafty Shield. In a Double Battle, if the user is not already Ghost-type and becomes Ghost-type before executing Curse (due to Mega Evolution, Color Change, or Trick-or-Treat), Curse will now target a random opponent. A Dynamax Pokémon can be cursed; however, it only takes damage equal to 1/4 of its pre-Dynamax maximum HP, which will be between 1/6 and 1/8 of its Dynamax HP, or as little as 1/12 for the boss in a Max Raid Battle. Ghost-type Pokémon are no longer able to choose targets for Curse in a Double Battle, and will always attempt to inflict the curse on a random opponent. In Generation II, Curse can be learned by every Pokémon capable of learning TMs. When Curse is used by a Pokémon that is not a Ghost-type, the user's Attack and Defense is raised by one stage, and their Travel Speed is lowered by one stage. When used by a Ghost-type, Curse will inflict the Cursed status condition on the target at the cost of half of the user's current HP. This status causes the inflicted Pokémon to lose 1/4 of its maximum HP at the end of the next turn and every 10 turns thereafter, or at the end of every turn. This lasts for 4-5 / 2 turns. Curse is classified as a Ghost-type move starting from Gates to Infinity (being classed as a Normal-type prior to this). In Gates to Infinity only, the Travel Speed drop will only last one turn. When used by a non-Ghost-type Pokémon, Curse is the same as in Generation V. When used by a Ghost-type Pokémon, Curse deals damage and then drains the opponent's health over time. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Curse could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Curse could be seen as a move used by Boss Haunter. In Pokémon UNITE, Curse is Trevenant's first move. It is obtained by evolving at level 5 and upgrading Will-O-Wisp into it instead of Wood Hammer. The user creates a cursed zone in exchange for 4% max HP per second for 6 seconds, dealing damage over time to enemies in the area of effect every .5s for 6s and decreasing their movement speed. The lower the user's HP is, the greater the decrease in movement speed. While using this move, the user builds up curse power every time it deals or receives damage. Releasing this built-up power will deal additional damage to enemies in the area of effect. If the curse power is at maximum when it's released, the cooldowns of Branch Poke, Horn Leech, and Pain Split are reset. At level 11, the move's radius increases. Curse and Z-Curse are the only moves with effects that vary depending on the type of the user. Curse's differing effects are a play on its Japanese name, のろい Noroi, which can mean either "curse" (呪い) or "dull/slow" (鈍い), depending on the kanji used. This is why it bestows an actual curse when used by Ghost-type Pokémon but lowers Speed when used by non-Ghost-type Pokémon. In Generation II, three Pokémon could legitimately use both effects of the move by using Conversion or Conversion 2 to alter its own type to and from the Ghost type: Porygon, Porygon2, and Smeargle. Technically speaking, any Pokémon that can change its type in battle (e.g. via Color Change, Reflect Type or Trick-or-Treat) can use of both of Curse's effects. Similarly, if a Ghost-type Pokémon uses Curse while under the effect of Soak or Magic Powder, the non-Ghost version will be used. In addition, any user of the move in Generation IX can use both effects due to Terastallization. Curse is one of the four moves from Generation II to have its type changed in a later generation, the others being Charm, Moonlight, and Sweet Kiss. Of these four, it is the only move of the four to not change in Generation VI making it the only move not to change into a Fairy-type move. Of the eight moves that have changed their type (adding Gust, Sand Attack, Karate Chop and Bite), Curse is the only one that wasn't originally a Normal-type move. This move was Gengar's Pokémon Power in the Fossil set of the Pokémon Trading Card Game, before it was introduced in the Generation II games. In Generation II, TM03, which contains Curse, is given away only at night by a man telling the following story: "Let me recount a terrifying tale... Once upon a time, there was a little boy who was given a new Bicycle... He wanted to try it right away... He was having so much fun that he didn't notice the sun had set... While riding home in the pitch-black night, the bike suddenly slowed! The pedals became heavy! When he stopped pedaling, the bike began slipping backwards! It was as if the bike were cursed and trying to drag him into oblivion! ... ... Shrieeeek! The boy had been riding uphill on Cycling Road! ... Ba-dum ba-dum! For listening so patiently, you may take this—TM03! TM03 is Curse. It's a terrifying move that slowly whittles down the victim's HP." In Pokémon Stadium 2, an unused item description for TM03 lists Curse's type as N & G (Japanese: Ｎ＆Ｇ), an abbreviation for Normal and Ghost. Ghost-type Curse is likely inspired by the traditional Japanese ritual ushi no toki mairi, in which a curse is placed on a target by driving nails into a straw effigy and onto a tree.

Title: Flail (move)

Flail (Japanese: じたばた Flail) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Flail inflicts damage and has no additional effect. Its power is based on the user's current HP as a percentage of its maximum HP, which is higher the lower the user's HP is. Flail cannot cause a critical hit, and its damage is not varied by a random factor during damage calculation. Flail can now cause a critical hit, and its damage is now varied by a random factor during damage calculation. Flail can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Endure was used in the previous turn. Flail is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if the move Endure was used in the prior turn. Flail deals damage. Its power is higher when the user's HP is lower. In the Rescue Team series, Flail's final damage is multiplied by 2 when at 51-75% HP, 4 when at 26-50% and 8 when at 25% or lower. In the Explorers series, the damage is multiplied by 1.5 at 26-50% HP and by 2 at 25% or lower. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the damage calculation is approximately proportional to the user's current HP, with the power multiplier roughly ranging from 0.1x at 100% HP, 0.5x at 83%, 1.0x at 62%, 1.3x at 50%, 2.0x at 20%, and 2.5x at 1 HP. In Pokémon UNITE, Flail is Snorlax's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 5 and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Heavy Slam. The user buffs themselves for 4 seconds causing their basic attacks to deal increased damage. Damage increase is strengthened for every 20% HP the user is missing. The user also gains a short burst of increased movement speed when Flail is activated. At level 11, the move's damage is increased and now causes the user’s basic attacks to also heal them while they are below 40% of their maximum HP. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Flail is the Power Card belonging to Magikarp. Once per game, the player using Magikarp may avoid paying rent on a property, instead receiving Pokémon Dollars equal to half the amount they would have paid from the owner of the property. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, a Pinsir that Emerald was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Flail by Emerald's Pokédex.

Title: Conversion 2 (move)

Conversion 2 (Japanese: テクスチャー２ Texture 2), formatted as Conversion2 prior to Pokémon Stadium 2, is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation IX, it was one of the signature moves of Porygon's evolutionary line. Conversion 2 will randomly change the user's type to any type that either resists or is immune to the type of the last damaging move it was hit by. For example, if the last move the user was hit by was an Electric-type move, the user will become Ground-type, Electric-type, Grass-type, or Dragon-type. If the last move the target used was a move that calls another move (such as Metronome), the type of the called move will be considered. If the last move the target used is a move that changes type (such as Hidden Power), the type it was changed to will be considered. Even though Struggle deals typeless damage, it is considered a Normal-type move for the purposes of Conversion 2. Conversion 2 is not affected by Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, or Baneful Bunker. Conversion 2 will no longer change the user to any of its current types. It will fail if the user already has all types that resist the type of the last damaging move. If the last move that hit the user was affected by Normalize, it will be considered as Normal-type. Conversion 2 now targets an adjacent Pokémon and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It will randomly change the user's current type to a type that either resists or is immune to the type of the move last used by the target, including status moves. Conversion 2 will not change the user to any of its current types. In an Inverse Battle, Conversion 2 considers resistances based on inverse type matchups. For example, if the last move the target used was an Electric-type move, the user may become Ground-type, Electric-type, Grass-type, or Dragon-type. If the last move the target used was a move that calls another move (such as Metronome), the type of the called move will be considered. If the last move the target used is a move that changes type (such as Hidden Power), the type it was changed to will be considered. If the last move the target used had its type changed, such as with Electrify or Normalize, the type it changes to will be considered. Conversion 2 will fail if the last move the target used was Struggle, typeless Revelation Dance, or if there is no type that resists that move (i.e., a Normal-type move in an Inverse Battle). Conversion 2 is not affected by Substitute, but it is blocked by Crafty Shield. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Conversion 2, the user regains all of its HP. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Conversion 2 could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in previous generations. Conversion 2 will fail if the last move the target used was Stellar-type. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Conversion 2 causes the user to gain the Conversion 2 status for 11 turns. If the user is hit by a move, it will turn into a type that has the best matchup against it (even if it is a non-damaging move). The effect will trigger in the middle of moves that hit multiple times. It accounts for the actual type of Hidden Power, Natural Gift and Weather Ball (except in the Rescue Team series where Weather Ball is treated as a Normal-type move). In Super Mystery Dungeon, Conversion 2 no longer results in a separate status condition, but will change the user's type to a random type that is advantageous to the target's last move. Not counting Z-Moves, Conversion 2 is the only move to use a number in its name. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Aeroblast (move)

Aeroblast (Japanese: エアロブラスト Aeroblast) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation II. It is the signature move of Lugia. Aeroblast deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Aeroblast can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Aeroblast can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Aeroblast could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Aeroblast could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Aeroblast deals damage and has a raised critical-hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers series). When used in Gates to Infinity, it requires a turn to charge up. In Pokémon GO, Aeroblast is a Charged Attack that has been available since November 6, 2020. Aeroblast also has two variants: Aeroblast+ and Aeroblast++. Aeroblast+ is the default Charged Attack for Apex Shadow Lugia. Upon purification, Aeroblast+ will change to Aeroblast++. Aeroblast is the only Flying-type move introduced in Generation II. In several Japanese literatures, the beam attack used by the Lugia in the second Pokémon movie was named Lugia Beam and was distinguished from actual Aeroblast. In Generation II, the animated series, and the second Pokémon movie, Aeroblast is portrayed as one or more beams of destructive energy. However, starting from Generation III and the Super Smash Bros. series, Aeroblast is depicted as a concentrated, hurricane-like vortex stream. The older depiction is used in Super Mystery Dungeon and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX. According to the Power of One illustrated novelization, Aeroblast was capable of splitting seas and shattering continents as well as destroying Lawrence III's airship. In the Pokémon Adventures manga, this move was named by Lt. Surge.

Title: Cotton Spore (move)

Cotton Spore (Japanese: わたほうし Cotton Spore) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation II. Cotton Spore lowers the target's Speed stat by two stages and has an accuracy of 85. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Cotton Spore, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. In Double Battles, Cotton Spore may target any single foe or ally. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding the Safety Goggles are now immune to Cotton Spore. In Double and Triple Battles, Cotton Spore now targets all adjacent foes. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Cotton Spore, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Cotton Spore lowers the enemy's Travel Speed by one stage. Since Super Mystery Dungeon, it will have no effect on Grass-type Pokémon. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the target's Speed. In Pokémon UNITE, Cotton Spore is Eldegoss's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Synthesis into it instead of Cotton Guard. The user channels, gathering spores while increasing its movement speed. At the end of the channel the spores are released, damaging and throwing nearby enemies into the air, then slowing them when they land. At level 13, user's Defense and Sp. Defense are increased by 40% while channeling.

Title: Reversal (move)

Reversal redirects here. For the location in Unova, see Reversal Mountain. Reversal (Japanese: きしかいせい Reversal) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TR21 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM134 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Reversal inflicts damage and has no additional effect. Its power is based on the user's current HP as a percentage of its maximum HP, which is higher the lower the user's HP is. Reversal cannot cause a critical hit, and its damage is not varied by a random factor during damage calculation. Reversal can now cause a critical hit, and its damage is now varied by a random factor during damage calculation. Reversal can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Endure was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if the move Endure was used in the prior turn. Reversal inflicts damage. Its power is higher when the user's HP is lower. In the Rescue Team series, Reversal's final damage is multiplied by 2 when at 75-51% HP, by 4 when at 50-26%, and by 8 when at 25% or lower. In the Explorers series, the move's damage is now multiplied by 1.5 at 50-26% HP and by 2 at 25% or lower. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the damage calculation is approximately proportional to the user's current HP, with the power multiplier roughly ranging from 0.1x at 100% HP, 0.5x at 83%, 1.0x at 62%, 1.3x at 50%, 2.0x at 20%, and 2.5x at 1 HP.

Title: Spite (move)

Spite (Japanese: うらみ Spite) is a non-damaging Ghost-type move introduced in Generation II. It is TM177 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Spite decreases the PP of the last move the target used. Spite fails if that move has no PP remaining. Spite decreases the move's PP by 2 to 5 (selected at random). If the amount that would be lost is greater than the amount remaining, the move loses all of its PP. If the Pokémon's most recent move is Metronome, it's considered to be the move Metronome turned into; as Metronome is incapable of calling moves the user already knows in this generation, Spite will always fail against Metronome. Spite fails if that move has exactly 1 PP remaining. If the Pokémon's most recent move is Metronome or another move that calls other moves, Spite will now correctly deduct PP from the base move instead of failing. Spite can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Curse was used in the previous turn. Spite decreases the move's PP by exactly 4 (unless the move has fewer than 4 PP remaining, in which case the number left to deduct is correctly shown). Spite no longer fails if the targeted move has exactly 1 PP remaining. Spite can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if any of the moves Encore, Taunt or Torment was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Spite, the user regains all of its HP. Spite targets the enemy in front and deducts PP of the last move used. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Spite reduces the PP of the last move it used to 0. Spite deducts 20 PP from the target's last move in Gates to Infinity and Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. This move features the same demon character as Lovely Kiss in its Generation II animation.

Title: Powder Snow (move)

Powder Snow (Japanese: こなゆき Powder Snow) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation II. Powder Snow inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of freezing the target. Powder Snow hits both opponents in a Double Battle. In a Triple Battle, Powder Snow will only hit opposing adjacent Pokémon. Powder Snow can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Blizzard to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Hail was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving an extra three appeal points if the move Hail was used in the prior turn. Powder Snow inflicts damage and may leave the target frozen. From Gates to Infinity onwards, the move will only hit the enemy in front (prior to this, the move affected all enemies in the room). In Pokémon GO, Powder Snow is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target frozen. In Pokémon UNITE, Powder Snow is Alolan Ninetales's first move as Alolan Vulpix. The user attacks with a chilly gust of powdery snow, slowing and damaging enemies hit. Upon evolving at level 4, it is replaced by either Avalanche or Dazzling Gleam. Due to the effect of Snow Warning, Powder Snow slings snow and contributes to Alolan Ninetales freezing opposing Pokémon. Powder Snow is the only variation of Acid to have been introduced after Generation I. Although the move is consistently described as a "chilling gust of powdery snow" and is present in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Powder Snow is not considered a wind move.

Title: Protect (move)

Protect (Japanese: まもる Protect) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. TM17 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. TM07 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Protect protects the user from all effects of moves that target it during the turn it is used, including damage. This does not include damage at the end of a turn such as from weather or a status condition. Protect is an increased priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn. If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Protect will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Some moves will do damage through Protect. Most damaging Z-Moves and Max Moves will only do 25% of their original damage, except G-Max One Blow and G-Max Rapid Flow which do full damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Protect. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Protect. Status moves that are unaffected by Protect are listed here. Generally, moves that target the user, moves that target the user and all allies, moves that target all Pokémon (except Shadow Shed and Shadow Half), and entry hazard moves cannot be blocked by Protect. In this generation only, Protect will fail if the user is behind a substitute. Protect's chance of working successfully the first 8 times is x/255 where x starts at 255 and is halved per sucessive use, rounded down. After 8 successive uses of Protect, the following Protect will always fail. In this generation only, the success rate is meant to have a lower bound of 1/8, but a bug causes it to become erratic afterwards instead. Protect can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Harden was used in the previous turn. In Diamond and Pearl only, due to a bug, if an attack is given perfect accuracy through the effect of a move (Lock-On/Mind Reader), the weather (Thunder in rain or Blizzard in hail), or an Ability (No Guard), it ignores protection with inverted accuracy. OHKO moves are unaffected and will not hit through protection. This bug was fixed in Platinum. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Protect, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Protect protects the user against incoming moves for 45 frames (1.5 seconds). Damaging Plus Moves do 25% of their damage through Protect. The user gains the Protect status condition, causing it to be protected from most attacks. The user can still be damaged by items or explosions. The status lasts for 3-6 turns prior to Gates to Infinity, and only 1 turn from Gates to Infinity onwards. The chance of the move failing rises if the user's most recently used move was Protect or a move that evades enemies' attacks (such as Detect or Endure). Protect is a Flying-type move when used by Liza (Summer 2023) & Celesteela due to their passive skill Flying Shift. This buddy move was known as B Protect prior to version 2.38.0. Asuka mentioned that Houndoom used Protect in The Legendary Pokémon and the Village of the Gods (Part Three) but the move wasn't shown. In Generation II, after the "[Pokémon]'s PROTECTING itself!" message appears, there is another message saying that the opponent's move missed. This is caused by Protect's effect internally leading moves with an accuracy check to miss, and was changed in Generation III to omit the second message. Protect is the most common move among the movesets of Video Game World Championships team's winners. Despite having distinct effects in the games, Reflect, Light Screen, Barrier, Protect, and Safeguard are often depicted in the animated series seemingly sharing the same effect that Protect has in the games (protecting the user from most the effect of moves). Although Protect is not present as an move in Pokémon GO, it appears to have inspired the Protect Shield used in Trainer Battles. The Protect Shield even has a hexagon tiling pattern, similar to Protect's animation in Generation VII, during which Trainer Battles were introduced.

Title: Mach Punch (move)

Mach Punch (Japanese: マッハパンチ Mach Punch) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Hitmonchan, but Tyrogue could still inherit it via breeding. Mach Punch inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Pocket Monsters Diamond and Pearl: Regigigas Major Capture Operation!!

Title: Scary Face (move)

Scary Face (Japanese: こわいかお Scary Face) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM26 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM006 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Scary Face lowers the target's Speed stat by two stages. Scary Face's accuracy is 90%. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Scary Face, the move has a 25% chance to fail in addition to its normal chance to miss. Scary Face can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Bite, Crunch, Leer, and Super Fang to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Leer or Rage was used in the previous turn. Scary Face's accuracy was changed from 90% to 100%. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Scary Face, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. If a Kyurem that knows Scary Face fuses with either Reshiram or Zekrom via the DNA Splicers, the move will be replaced by Fusion Flare or Fusion Bolt. Reversing the fusion will perform the inverse of these move transformations. Since Generation VIII, due to Scary Face being taught by TM, Kyurem can learn Scary Face even if fused. If a fused Kyurem that knows Scary Face is separated, it will forget Scary Face before Fusion Flare or Fusion Bolt is replaced. Scary Face lowers the target's Travel Speed by one stage. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Scary Face could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Scary Face could be seen as a move used by Boss Silvally.

Title: Feint Attack (move)

If you were looking for the attack called Feint, see Feint (move). Feint Attack (Japanese: だましうち Sneak Attack), spelled Faint Attack prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation II. Feint Attack inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Feint Attack can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Fake Out, Leer, or Pound was used in the previous turn. Feint Attack will not trigger effects involving contact. Feint Attack is now a physical move that makes contact. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ The English TCG and TFG have consistently spelled the move as "Feint Attack". At Pokémon Festa 2002, the early animation for the attack showed that the background didn't change. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, despite the move being unusable, Ace Trainer Meagan on Route 228 uses a Delcatty that knows Feint Attack. From 1.1.3 onwards, it instead knows Covet.

Title: Sweet Kiss (move)

Sweet Kiss (Japanese: てんしのキッス Angel's Kiss) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VI, it was a Normal-type move. It appears to be the confusion counterpart to Lovely Kiss. Sweet Kiss causes the target to become confused. Sweet Kiss cannot affect targets with Own Tempo as their Ability. Sweet Kiss can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charm was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Sweet Kiss, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Sweet Kiss inflicts confusion on the enemy. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sweet Kiss could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sweet Kiss could be seen as a move used by Boss Togepi and Togetic. Prior to Generation VII, its in-game animations correlate with its Japanese name in which an angel floats down and kisses the opponent. A similar situation occurs with Lovely Kiss, though only in Generation II and Generation III. Sweet Kiss is one of the four moves from Generation II to have its type changed in a later generation, the others being Charm, Curse, and Moonlight. Excluding Curse, all of them were Normal-type moves that became Fairy-type moves in Generation VI.

Title: Belly Drum (move)

Belly Drum (Japanese: はらだいこ Belly Drum) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Belly Drum deducts half of the user's maximum HP (rounded down) from its current HP and, in return, it maximizes the user's Attack stat by raising it to +6 stages, even if the user's temporary Attack bonus stages were below 0 prior to using Belly Drum. Belly Drum fails if the user's current HP is less than half its maximum, or if the user's Attack is already at +6 (even if the user has Contrary). If the user has Contrary, its Attack will be lowered to -6 stages (although the message will still say that the user maximized its Attack); even if the user's Attack is already at -6 stages, Belly Drum will deduct HP. In Generation II handheld games only, if the Pokémon is under 50% HP when using the move, it will still have its Attack raised 2 stages due to a bug. Belly Drum can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Rest to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Belly Drum, the user restores all of its HP before Belly Drum's HP deduction takes effect. Belly Drum maximizes the user's Attack. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the move cuts the user's Belly to 1, and will have no effect with a Belly of 1 or less. From Super Mystery Dungeon, it instead reduces the user's Belly by 50. If it is used when the user's Belly is 50 or less, it fails. In Pokémon UNITE, Azumarill's Unite Move, Belly Bash, is similar to Belly Drum. Belly Drum is the only move that is capable of raising a single stat by more than three levels without Simple, not counting Haze, Psych Up, Power Swap, Guard Swap, Heart Swap, and Spectral Thief. While Shell Smash causes a net total of eight stat changes, Belly Drum can cause more stat changes if the user has experienced at least a -3 stat change to its Attack stat, reaching twelve stat changes if the user has a -6 Attack stat change. Due to how both this move and Darmanitan's Zen Mode Ability work, Belly Drum can force a Standard Mode Darmanitan to change its form (unless it is at full HP and has an odd maximum HP).

Title: Sludge Bomb (move)

Sludge Bomb (Japanese: ヘドロばくだん Sludge Bomb) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation II. TM36 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM52 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Sludge Bomb inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of poisoning the target. It has no effect on targets with Bulletproof. Sludge Bomb can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Sludge to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Sludge was used in the previous turn. Sludge Bomb deals damage and may leave the target poisoned. See Gengar in Pokkén Tournament for the move's usage in that game. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. In Pokémon UNITE, Sludge Bomb is Venusaur's and Gengar's first move. Venusaur can obtain the move by reaching Ivysaur stage at level 5 and upgrading Seed Bomb into it instead of Giga Drain. The user hurls toxic sludge to the designated location, damaging and poisoning all enemies in the radius when it lands. The sludge lingers, damaging enemies over time in the radius, slowing them, and reducing their Sp. Def (by 30% after each damaging tick and only stacks once) for a short time. Its radius increases at level 11. Gengar can obtain the move as Haunter by reaching level 7 and upgrading Will-O-Wisp into it instead of Shadow Ball. The user hurls unsanitary sludge to the designated area, poisoning and damaging enemies over time in the radius. The poison duration increases at level 13. In the English dub of A Crasher Course in Power!, Crasher Wake told his Quagsire to use Sludge Bomb. This is a translation error, as in the Japanese version, the commanded move was Mud Bomb. Sludge Bomb was mentioned and shown in GDZ60 but it wasn't specified who used the move. Sludge Bomb is the only Poison-type move introduced in Generation II. Since Generation V, Sludge Bomb has the same description text as Sludge. Since Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, probably due to an oversight, the Polish animated series dub has used the same translated name for Sludge Bomb as Mud Bomb. Oddish and Gloom could learn Sludge Bomb in Generation II, but Bellossom couldn't. This was fixed in Generation III

Title: Octazooka (move)

Octazooka (Japanese: オクタンほう Okutank Cannon) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Octillery, though other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Octazooka inflicts damage and has a 50% chance to lower the target's accuracy by one stage. Pokémon with the Bulletproof Ability are immune to Octazooka. Octazooka can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Lock-On or Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Octazooka inflicts damage and causes the target to be less likely to hit the user. Octazooka deals damage. Prior to Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Octazooka may lower the enemy's accuracy by one stage. From Super Mystery Dungeon onwards, Octazooka instead may instead inflict the Blinker status condition. This causes the affected Pokémon to not be able to see other Pokémon, items or dungeon walls, and will treat allies as enemies. Octazooka is a Charged Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since December 11, 2019. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a good chance of lowering the target's accuracy. The event-exclusive Sableye can learn the move Octazooka, despite being unrelated to Water-type Pokémon or firearms. Its moves were chosen by chief Golgo Matsumoto, who thought it would make the event more fun and unexpected.

Title: Spikes (move)

Spikes (Japanese: まきびし Caltrop) is a non-damaging Ground-type move introduced in Generation II. Spikes sets an entry hazard around the enemy team's field. Pokémon who switch into the spike-ridden field take 12.5% of their maximum HP in damage (rounded down). Flying-type Pokémon are immune to this damage. The move Rapid Spin removes Spikes around the user. In Pokémon Stadium 2, if both players are forced to switch-in their last remaining Pokémon, and they have 12.5% or less HP, then they receive Spikes damage, faint and the match is declared a draw. In this generation only, Pokémon fainting from Spikes will not run the regular faint checks until later, meaning that player can potentially end up with a Pokémon with 0HP on the field which hasn't fainted if the game loop doesn't do any further unrelated faint checks later. The easiest way to reproduce this is to have a Pokémon faint to Perish Song, then switch into a Pokémon who immediately faints from Spikes. Spikes can now be set up to three times, each increasing the damage done to the opponent upon switching in. One layer of Spikes will damage the opponent Pokémon by 1/8 (12.5%) of its maximum HP, two layers will deal 1/6 (16.67%), and three layers will deal 1/4 (25%). Any Pokémon with Levitate will also be immune to the damage. The move Defog will remove Spikes around its target. Any Pokémon under the effect of Magnet Rise (if Baton Passed) or the Magic Guard Ability are unaffected by the damage. However, Flying and Levitating Pokémon are affected under Gravity, while holding an Iron Ball, or if Baton Passed an Ingrain. Spikes can now be reflected with Magic Coat and the Ability Magic Bounce. Any Pokémon holding an Air Balloon will be immune to the damage. Defog now removes all Spikes from play regardless of which side of the field they were placed on. Spikes can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Circle Throw, Dragon Tail, Roar, and Whirlwind to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Groundium Z into Z-Spikes, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. If a Pokémon is holding Heavy-Duty Boots, they are immune to Spikes when entering battle. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Spikes is a physical move that deals direct damage with a base power of 40. It also leaves the target with splinters for 4 turns (Strong Style), 2 turns (Agile Style), or 3 turns (otherwise). Using Ceaseless Edge will set up one layer of spikes on the target's side of the field. Like all entry hazard moves reimagined for Z-A, Spikes deploys its projectiles in a fan-shaped area in front of the user. Enemies take damage upon making contact with the caltrops and repeatedly if they stay inside the hazard for an extended period of time. Flying-types, even if they make visible contact, will not take damage from Spikes. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Spikes is a damage-dealing move, so Gliscor receives STAB when using it. Spikes causes the user to create a Spikes trap (Spiked Tile prior to Super Mystery Dungeon) underneath them, as long as it is a land tile that is neither stairs nor Kecleon Shop carpet. The trap also cannot be laid in hallways and the entrance of a room. Any Pokémon that triggers a Spikes trap will lose 15 / 20 / 30 HP.

Title: Zap Cannon (move)

Zap Cannon (Japanese: でんじほう Electromagnetic Cannon) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM07 in Generation II. Zap Cannon has a base power of 100 and has a 255/256 (~99.6%) chance of paralyzing the target. Zap Cannon now paralyzes the target every time it hits. Zap Cannon can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Lock-On was used in the previous turn. Pokémon with the Bulletproof Ability are immune to Zap Cannon. Zap Cannon can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex and Smelling Salts to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Zap Cannon deals damage and leaves the target paralyzed. In Pokémon GO, Zap Cannon is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017.

Title: Foresight (move)

Foresight (Japanese: みやぶる See Through) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. When Foresight is used, if the user's accuracy stat stage is less than the target's evasion stat stage, both stat stages will be treated as zero during accuracy checks against the target. This effect remains until the target switches out, but the effect may be passed via Baton Pass. Foresight also removes the Ghost type's immunity to Fighting-type and Normal-type moves for any moves used against the target. Foresight has an accuracy of 100%. Foresight will fail if it is used on a Pokémon already under its effect. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Foresight's accuracy can be lowered by Bright Powder, Flash, Kinesis, Mud-Slap, Sand Attack and Smokescreen, but not by Double Team, nor Minimize. Foresight now causes all accuracy checks against the target to ignore any changes to the target's evasion stat stages. This effect can no longer be Baton Passed. Foresight can also now successfully be used on Pokémon that are already under its effect. Foresight now only causes accuracy checks against the target to ignore changes to its evasion stat stages if its evasion stat stage is greater than 0. Foresight now also bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Foresight will once again fail if used against a Pokémon already under its effect. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Foresight, the user's critical hit ratio increases by two stages. Foresight resets any positive evasion stat changes to 0. If the target is a Ghost-type, it will also inflict the Exposed status condition on them, removing their immunity to Normal and Fighting-type moves. Professor Elm's Sentret was revealed to know Foresight on the official website, but it has never been shown using the move.

Title: Destiny Bond (move)

Destiny Bond (Japanese: みちづれ Take Along With) is a non-damaging Ghost-type move introduced in Generation II. When Destiny Bond is used, until the user moves again, if the user faints as the direct result of an attack the attacking Pokémon also faints. If the user takes another turn (including "inactive" turns such as those spent sleeping or flinching), the effect disappears. Destiny Bond does not activate from indirect damage such as weather damage, damage from Leech Seed, and Future Sight. Destiny Bond also bypasses Focus Sash, Sturdy, and Magic Guard. Destiny Bond has no effect if an ally causes the user to faint. A Pokémon defeated by this move will faint before the Pokémon that used Destiny Bond. If a Pokémon that used Destiny Bond faints due to damage from a multistrike move that does not strike as many times as intended, Destiny Bond will not activate. If a Pokémon that used Destiny Bond faints due to damage from moves that would raise or lower the user's stats, and a stat change isn't applied, the message that the Destiny Bond user took the Pokémon that attacked it with it is displayed, but the Pokémon that attacked the Destiny Bond user will not faint. Destiny Bond can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 8 bonus appeal points if Curse, Endure, or Mean Look was used in the previous turn. Destiny Bond functions as intended when the Destiny Bond user faints due to damage from a multistrike move that does not strike as many times as intended and when the Destiny Bond user faints due to damage from moves that would raise or lower the user's stats but a stat change is not applied. A Pokémon defeated by this move will now faint after the Pokémon that used Destiny Bond, meaning that if Destiny Bond is used by the last Pokémon on a player's team, and the last Pokémon on the opposing team makes it faint, the opposing player will win. Destiny Bond can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Encore, Taunt or Torment was used in the prior turn. Destiny Bond will always fail if it was successfully executed on the previous turn. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Destiny Bond, the user becomes the center of attention, forcing all of the opponent's moves to target the user for the turn, if possible. If used in a Max Raid Battle, Destiny Bond will fail with the message "The move was blocked by the power of Dynamax!" In pre-1.2.0 Versions of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if the user Terastallizes the turn after using Destiny Bond, it would fail to make the attacker faint. Destiny Bond inflicts the Destiny Bond status condition on the enemy. Any damage sustained by the user will also be inflicted on the target with this status condition. This includes any self-inflicted damage from recoil. If the move is bounced back, the user will be linked to themselves. In such case, Destiny Bond will trigger if the user hurts themselves from recoil/crash damage, or a different move that was bounced back at the user. The status conditions lasts for 11 / 6 turns. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Destiny Bond could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Destiny Bond could be seen as a move used by opposing Wobbuffet.

Title: Perish Song (move)

Perish Song (Japanese: ほろびのうた Song of Perishing) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. The Ability Perish Body functions similarly to Perish Song. All Pokémon on the field when Perish Song is used gain a perish count, except Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof and Pokémon that already have a perish count. Starting at 4 on the turn Perish Song is used, the perish count decreases by 1 at the end of each turn (including the turn Perish Song was used). When a Pokémon's perish count reaches 0, it faints. Perish Song bypasses accuracy checks to always hit. Perish Song affects Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute or protected (even if protected by Crafty Shield). Since Perish Song causes a Pokémon to faint without inflicting damage, it is unaffected by effects such as Focus Sash, Magic Guard, and Sturdy. If a Pokémon is switched out, its perish count is removed. However, if a Pokémon switches out with Baton Pass, its perish count is transferred to the Pokémon switched in (even if it has the Ability Soundproof). In Rotation Battles, if the Pokémon is rotated out, the perish count remains but does not decrease until that Pokémon is rotated back in. If Perish Song becomes an Electric-type move (i.e. due to Ion Deluge, Plasma Fists, or Galvanize), Pokémon with Volt Absorb, Lightning Rod, or Motor Drive are immune to it, and Perish Song causes the Abilities to activate accordingly. If Perish Song becomes a Water-type move (i.e. due to Liquid Voice), Pokémon with Water Absorb, Storm Drain, or Dry Skin are immune to it, and the Abilities will activate accordingly. Perish Song can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Mean Look or Sing was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Block, Mean Look, or Spider Web were used in the prior turn. If powered up with a Normalium Z into Z-Perish Song, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Perish Song. Perish Song does not affect Dynamax Pokémon in Max Raid Battles, but does in other battles. Perish Song fails if used in a Tera Raid Battle. If the perish count of multiple Pokémon on the field reaches 0 at the end of a turn, they will faint simultaneously (but messages and animations show up one after another). If the perish count of multiple Pokémon on the field reaches 0 at the end of a turn, they will now faint in the same order they would move in. Pokémon with Soundproof are immune to Perish Song, including the user. Pokémon with Soundproof are no longer immune to their own moves, so if a Pokémon uses Perish Song, it will now gain a perish count even if it has Soundproof. However, other Pokémon with Soundproof are still immune to Perish Song. Due to Pokémon Legends: Z-A's real-time combat, any Pokémon that are susceptible to Perish Song will faint if not switched out within thirty seconds. Perish Song targets all enemies on the floor, inflicting Perish Song status condition, causing them to faint 3 turns later (unless the status is cured). This move is affected by Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. The move can be reflected by Magic Coat in the Explorers series. The move could be a reference to the tritone, a musical interval also known as Diabolus in musica (Devil in music), since it was believed that when it was used, the devil got into the notes; this explains why the move has the effect of making everyone faint after three turns, its name, and the fact its animations feature musical notes changing their color to black. Perish Song displays animation when displaying the counter, as well as when it drops to zero, in Pokémon Battle Revolution.

Title: Icy Wind (move)

Icy Wind (Japanese: こごえるかぜ Freezing Wind) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation II. Icy Wind inflicts damage and has a 255/256 (~99.6%) chance of lowering the target's Speed stat by one stage. Icy Wind deals damage to all adjacent opponents and lowers the Speed of hit Pokémon by one stage. Icy Wind can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Hail was used in the prior turn. Icy Wind deals damage and reduces the target's Travel Speed by one stage. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. In Pokémon UNITE, Icy Wind is Alolan Ninetales's second move. The user attacks with a gust of freezing air, damaging, shoving, and slowing enemies hit. At level 6, it is replaced by either Blizzard or Aurora Veil. Due to the effect of Snow Warning, Icy Wind slings snow and contributes to Alolan Ninetales freezing opposing Pokémon.

Title: Detect (move)

Detect (Japanese: みきり All-Seeing) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. It is TM43 in Generation II. Detect protects the user from all effects of moves that target it during the turn it is used, including damage. This does not include damage at the end of a turn such as from weather or a status condition. Detect is an increased priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn. If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Detect will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Some moves will do damage through Detect. Most damaging Z-Moves and Max Moves will only do 25% of their original damage, except G-Max One Blow and G-Max Rapid Flow which do full damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Detect. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Detect. Status moves that are unaffected by Detect are listed here. Generally, moves that target the user, moves that target the user and all allies, moves that target all Pokémon (except Shadow Shed and Shadow Half), and entry hazard moves cannot be blocked by Detect. In this generation only, Detect will fail if the user is behind a substitute. In this generation only, the success rate is meant to have a lower bound of 1/8, but a bug causes it to become erratic afterwards instead. Detect can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Taunt was used in the previous turn. In Diamond and Pearl only, due to a bug, if an attack is given perfect accuracy through the effect of a move (Lock-On/Mind Reader), the weather (Thunder in rain or Blizzard in hail), or an Ability (No Guard), it ignores protection with inverted accuracy. OHKO moves are unaffected and will not hit through protection. This bug was fixed in Platinum. If powered up by a Fightinium Z into Z-Detect, the user's evasion rises one stage. Detect is functionally identical to Protect, with the difference being a slightly shorter cooldown and duration. The user briefly shields itself from all damage and the effects of moves aimed at and around it for 18 frames (0.6 seconds). Damaging Plus Moves will deal 25% of their normal damage through Detect. Detect gives the user the Protect status condition for 3-6 / 1 turn(s). The user can still be damaged by items, traps or explosions. The chance of the move failing rises if the user's most recently used move was Detect or a move that evades enemies' attacks (such as Protect or Endure). In Lucario and the Mystery of Mew, Lucario was mentioned to know Detect. However, he was never seen using the move. In Generation II, after the appearance of the "[Pokémon's name] Protecting itself!" message, another message saying that the opponent's Pokémon's move missed appears. The second message was removed in Generation III.

Title: Bone Rush (move)

Bone Rush (Japanese: ボーンラッシュ Bone Rush) is a damage-dealing Ground-type multistrike move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation IV, it was one of the signature moves of Cubone and Marowak. Bone Rush inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the user is holding a King's Rock, the final strike has a chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Bone Rush can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Bone Club and Bonemerang to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Bone Club, Bonemerang, or Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. The accuracy of Bone Rush is increased from 80% to 90%. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 10% base miss chance) is now 69.8. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Bone Rush inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pokémon UNITE, Bone Rush is one of Lucario's possible second moves. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and choosing to upgrade Meteor Mash into it instead of Close Combat. Bone Rush has the user perform a combo attack with a bone, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon and shoving them, as well as applying an Extreme Speed mark. The final attack of the comoo sends the bone flying. If Bone Rush is used again, Lucario rushes to the bone's location, dealing damage to nearby opposing Pokémon. By reaching level 13, Bone Rush is upgraded into Bone Rush+, and the cooldown for Extreme Speed or Power-Up Punch will be reset after using the move again. Bone Rush is the only bone-themed move to be learned by Pokémon other than Cubone and Marowak.

Title: Outrage (move)

Outrage (Japanese: げきりん Imperial Wrath) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation II. TM39 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Dratini's evolutionary line, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Outrage inflicts damage for 2-3 turns, has a base power of 90, and 15 PP. PP is deducted only on the turn Outrage is first called. While the user is using Outrage, it cannot use any other move. After Outrage is finished, the user becomes confused, due to fatigue. If the Outrage duration is disrupted (such as by full paralysis or hurting itself due to confusion), it will immediately end. The user will only become confused if Outrage is fully executed, without its duration being disrupted. Sleep, freeze, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Outrage. A message is now displayed when the user becomes confused due to fatigue. In battles with multiple opponents, the user selects itself as the target, but hits an adjacent opponent that is selected at random upon each use of the move. The base power of Outrage has been increased to 120. Outrage's PP is reduced to 10, and it is disrupted if it is not successful due to missing, sleeping, paralysis, freeze, flinching, or a target that is Protecting or is immune. If a disruption occurs on what would have been the final, confusion-inducing turn of Outrage, the user will always become confused. Outrage's base power was reduced to 90, and its accuracy to 85%. It no longer continues for multiple turns and confuses the user, and instead the user becomes fixated on using Outrage. Outrage inflicts damage once and confuses the user if they successfully execute the move. If the user suffers a flinch during the wind-up, Outrage will go on cooldown but the user will not be confused. Outrage inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times (prior to Gates to Infinity) or 2-3 times (since Gates to Infinity) per use. The user becomes confused after the move ends. When used by a gigantic Pokémon in Super Mystery Dungeon, Outrage only hits once, but hits up to 10 tiles away and pierces through enemies and walls. In Pokémon GO, Outrage is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Outrage is Dragonite's second move. It is obtained by evolving from Dragonair at level 7 and upgrading Dragon Breath into it instead of Hyper Beam. The user stomps the ground, dealing damage to enemies in an area around the user with the bonus effect of the last Boosted Attack he used. Additionally, the user gains a buff for 5s, increasing basic attack speed, converting all of their attacks into melee Boosted Attacks, and alternating through the water, electric, and fire Boosted Attacks in order. When the buff ends, the user is briefly stunned. At level 13, the move also reduces the duration of hindrances inflicted on the user while rampaging. Garchomp's Unite Move, Livid Outrage, is similar to Outrage. In The Gates of Warp!, Cynthia's Garchomp was commanded to use Outrage, but she was unable to execute it. The Japanese name げきりん (逆鱗) gekirin ("wrath of one's superior", literally "reversed/inverted scale") may refer to the idiom 逆鱗に触れる gekirin ni fureru ("to infuriate one's superior", literally "to touch the reversed/inverted scale"), originating in the philosophy written in the Han Feizi. In East Asian mythology, dragons are benevolent and tamable creatures, but possess a specific scale (some sources say, on their chins) which, if moved the opposite way, will incite the dragon's fury no matter how docile they were (to the point of instant destructive death of differing accounts). While also applicable to other creatures within the same pantheon, the philosophy is meant to be parallel to a subject earning the fury of the monarch they've angered, no matter how composed or friendly they were. The Lake of Outrage shares its name with this move in most languages. In French, the lake instead shares its name with the move Twister (Ouragan), likely because the Lake of Rage already shares its name with Outrage in French. In Italian, the lake instead shares its name with the move Dragon Rush (Dragofuria).

Title: Sandstorm (move)

Sandstorm (Japanese: すなあらし Sandstorm) is a non-damaging Rock-type move introduced in Generation II. TM37 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. When this move is used, a Sandstorm will brew. This effect will last for 5 turns. This clears any other weather, but will fail if there is already a Sandstorm. While Sandstorm is in effect, all Pokémon who are not Steel-, Rock-, or Ground-type will be damaged ⅛ of their maximum HP (rounded down) at the end of the first four turns. Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig will also not take damage from Sandstorm, regardless of type. Also, the moves Synthesis, Morning Sun, and Moonlight will recover only half as much HP as under clear conditions. In Pokémon Stadium 2, the Pokémon in Player 1's side is always hit first by the Sandstorm (unless it is immune), regardless of which side summoned the weather. If at the end of a turn, both players have one Pokémon left, and both have ⅛ or less HP, then Sandstorm faints them, and the match is declared a Draw. The damage inflicted at the end of each turn is decreased to 1/16 of the Pokémon's maximum HP. Pokémon with the Sand Veil Ability have the accuracy of any move used against them modified by a factor of 4/5 when Sandstorm is in effect, and are immune to Sandstorm's damaging effect. Moonlight, Synthesis, and Morning Sun now only restore ¼ of the user's maximum HP. Dive will also prevent damage from Sandstorm during the semi-invulnerable turn. Sandstorm can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Mud-Slap, Sand Tomb, Sand-Attack, and Weather Ball to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. All Rock-type Pokémon will now have their Special Defense raised by 50% for the duration of the sandstorm. Also, if a Smooth Rock is held when Sandstorm is used, its duration is lengthened from 5 to 8 turns. Pokémon with the Sand Rush Ability have their Speed doubled, while Pokémon with Sand Force get a power boost of 30% for their Rock-, Ground- and Steel-type moves. Both of these Abilities grant an immunity to Sandstorm's damaging effect. Sandstorms increase the health recovered from Shore Up from ½ to ⅔ of the user's maximum HP. If heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are present, Sandstorm will fail. Sandstorm can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing any of the moves Sand Attack, Sand Tomb and Weather Ball to give an extra three base appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Rockium Z into Z-Sandstorm, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Sandstorm can no longer override weather in the overworld. Despite being considered a wind move, Sandstorm does not activate either Wind Power nor Wind Rider if a Pokémon with that Ability is hit with it. Sandstorm turns the current floor's weather to sandstorm for 18 turns / entire floor / 66 turns. In Pokémon Ranger and Kidnapped Riolu (Part 2), a man working as a henchman for J's client told his Rhyhorn to use Sandstorm. However, it couldn't perform the attack after being hit by a Bubble Beam from Dawn's Piplup. In Rivals in the Dark of Night!, Zirc tried to command his Rhydon to use Sandstorm, but he was interrupted before the move could be executed. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Shuckle was revealed to know Sandstorm by Emerald's Pokédex. In Generation III, Sandstorm's animation was very similar to Heat Wave's, the differences being the color and the effect on the targets' sprites. In Pokémon the Series: Black & White, Ash's Roggenrola used Sandstorm in a different way in every episode where it used the move before evolving. Despite being classified as a wind move, Sandstorm is the only one to not activate the Abilities Wind Power and Wind Rider.

Title: Giga Drain (move)

Giga Drain (Japanese: ギガドレイン Giga Drain) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation II. TM19 from Generation II to Generation IV, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. It is the strongest in a line of three Grass-type HP draining attacks, the other two being Absorb and Mega Drain. Giga Drain inflicts damage, and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP (but not less than 1 HP), restoring up to the Pokémon's maximum HP. Giga Drain has 60 base power and 5 PP. Giga Drain will always miss if the target has a substitute. Giga Drain can now hit a substitute and will properly heal the user when damaging a substitute. When used on a Pokémon with the Liquid Ooze Ability, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Giga Drain can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. The move's base PP was raised to 10. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Giga Drain's base power has been increased from 60 to 75. Giga Drain cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. Giga Drain inflicts damage, and 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP, including excess damage. In Adventure Squad only, the move heals by 20% of dealt damage instead. In Gates to Infinity only, the user will heal based on how much HP the target lost, and excess damage is not accounted for. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. In Pokémon UNITE, Giga Drain is Venusaur's first move after reaching Ivysaur stage at level 5 and upgrading Seed Bomb into it instead of Sludge Bomb. The user emits a cone-shaped blast in the designated direction, damaging enemies and restoring health when it hits. The user also takes 35% reduced damage for a short time. This move's healing is not increased by the user's passive. At level 13, the healing is increased.

Title: Endure (move)

Endure (Japanese: こらえる Endure) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. TM58 in Generation IV and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. For the rest of the turn, Endure allows the user to survive any attack that would cause it to faint, leaving the user with 1 HP instead. Endure can be used by Pokémon with only 1 HP, and can protect the user from fainting from multiple attacks in one turn. If it or other protection moves are used consecutively, its success rate decreases. The success rate formula, including which protection moves affect it, exceptions, and glitches, functions identically to that of Protect in all generations. Endure cannot protect against the end-of-turn effects of moves such as Future Sight. Endure now has a priority of +3 and always fails if the user is the last to act in the turn. If a Pokémon endures a hit when already at 1 HP, effects that require damage to be done to the Pokémon (such as contact Abilities) will not trigger. Endure can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Destiny Bond, Endeavor, Eruption, Flail, Pain Split, and Reversal to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. In Generation IV, if the user is holding a Berry that reduces the attack's damage (such as Occa Berry), then they will be left at half of their previous HP instead of 1, as a result of using this move. This is due to Endure reducing damage taken to the current HP value minus one, and the Berry then halving it. Effects that require damage to be done to the Pokémon (such as contact Abilities) will now trigger if a Pokémon endures a hit when already at 1 HP. Endure can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Endeavor, Flail, Pain Split and Reversal) to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Endure, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Endure can now protect against the end-of-turn effects of Future Sight and Doom Desire. Endure gives the user the Enduring status condition, causing it to survive any attack that would make it faint, with 1 HP. This status lasts for 4-5 / 1 turn(s) In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, a Pinsir that Emerald was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Endure by Emerald's Pokédex. Endure is one of two moves to lose its TM status twice before Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! (when TM numbers stopped being consistent). The other is Sleep Talk. Coincidentally, both moves are Normal-type moves introduced in Generation II. Also, both can be taught to all Pokémon that can learn TMs. Additionally, both moves were added as Move Tutors in Pokémon Emerald before regaining their TM status in Generation IV, but Sleep Talk regained its Move Tutor status in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, while Endure did not.

Title: Charm (move)

Charm (Japanese: あまえる Fawn) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VI, it was a Normal-type move. It was TM29 in Pokémon Sword and Shield and is TM002 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Charm is a Normal-type move. It lowers the Attack stat of the target by two stages. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Charm, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Charm can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Flatter, Growl, Rest, Sweet Kiss, and Tail Whip to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Charm, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Charm reduces the enemy's Attack. This cuts the Attack stat by ½, stacking up to 1/128, with this reduction being separate from stat stages. This characteristic is only shared with Aurora Beam and Memento. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Charm is still classified as a Normal move, despite having been changed to a Fairy-type move in the core series games. Charm is a Fast Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since July 9, 2019. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Charm could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Charm could be seen as a move used by opposing Togepi and Wynaut. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the target's Attack. In the exclusive edition of Monopoly: Pokémon Kanto Edition, Charm is the Power Card belonging to Eevee. Once per game, during their turn, the player using Eevee may forcibly trade their lowest-valued property for an opponent's highest-valued property. If the opponent complains about the trade, the player using Eevee may take $100 from them in addition to their property. If either property involved in the trade has Poké Marts or a Pokémon Center built on them, the original owner of the property sells them back to the bank, receiving half the price of building them. In Gligar Glide, Gold's Togepi, Togebo, was revealed to know Charm by his Pokédex. Charm is one of the four moves from Generation II to have its type changed in a later generation, the others being Curse, Moonlight, and Sweet Kiss. Excluding Curse, all of them were Normal-type moves that became Fairy-type moves in Generation VI. In Gold and Silver, Bulbasaur and Oddish are programmed to learn Charm as an Egg Move, but there was no legitimate father to pass down this move. In Generations III and IV, both can inherit the move from the Shroomish evolutionary line by chain breeding; from Generation V onward, both can get this move directly from Cottonee. A similar situation occurs for Snorlax in Gold and Silver. In Generation III and IV, Snorlax was able to inherit the move from the Bulbasaur line by chain breeding; from Generation VI onward, Snorlax was able to inherit the move directly from the Tyrunt line.

Title: Rollout (move)

Rollout (Japanese: ころがる Roll) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM04 in Generation II. Rollout inflicts damage over five turns, doubling in power for each consecutive hit; the power will reset after five turns or if Rollout is interrupted. It is a consecutively executed move. Rollout's power is doubled in addition if the user had previously used Defense Curl. In Generation VII, or Generation VIII prior to version 1.3.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, hitting a Mimikyu in Disguised Form or Eiscue in Ice Face form with Rollout or Ice Ball produces the Rollout storage glitch. Rollout can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Defense Curl or Harden was used in the previous turn. It is also a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Defense Curl was used in the prior turn. Rollout inflicts damage and causes the user to become fixated on using the move. From Generation IV onwards, a Lickitung that knows this move will evolve into Lickilicky when leveled up. Rollout is Jigglypuff's neutral special from Super Smash Bros. Melee onwards. The longer the special button is held down before being released, the stronger and faster this move will be, though being harder to control. Rollout deals damage, hitting the target up to 5 times per use. The move will end early as soon as a single hit misses. In the Rescue Team series, Rollout's damage is multiplied by 1.5×, 2×, 2.5×, and finally 3× for each successive hit. In the Explorers series, the damage increases only by 0.1× for each successive hit. Rollout's base critical hit rate is lower than normal (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series). From Gates to Infinity onward, Rollout no longer increases in power for each successive hit, but will double in power the first time it is used successfully if Defense Curl had been used by the user on the same floor. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pokémon GO, Rollout is a Fast Attack that was made available on May 21, 2022. In Pokémon UNITE, Rollout is Wigglytuff's second move. It is obtained by evolving from Jigglypuff at level 4 and upgrading Defense Curl into it instead of Sing. The user gains a shield for 25% max HP and rolls forward, damaging and throwing enemies hit in the air for .5s. Hitting an obstacle while rolling will change the direction the user is moving up to 5 times and reset the cooldown of Pound, Double Slap, or Dazzling Gleam. At level 12, the amount of time enemies are thrown in the air is increased by .3s. In Pokémon Pokopia, Rollout is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Graveler in Rocky Ridges. It allows Ditto to transform into a Graveler and roll around, continually building up speed. While pressing ZR, Ditto can also break objects by rolling into them. Ditto's PP constantly depletes while transformed. Rollout was one of the first Generation II moves introduced. It was shown along with the third Generation II Pokémon introduced, Donphan, when Raymond used it in the first movie. If a Pokémon levels up mid-battle and a new move is learned in place of Rollout while it is still being used, the Pokémon will continue using Rollout in spite of having forgotten it.

Title: False Swipe (move)

False Swipe (Japanese: みねうち Strike with the Back of the Sword) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. TM54 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. False Swipe inflicts damage, but will leave the target with 1 HP if it would otherwise cause it to faint. If the target has 1 HP remaining, False Swipe will hit and leave the target at 1 HP. False Swipe does not reduce its damage when hitting a substitute. False Swipe can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Swords Dance was used in the previous turn. False Swipe deals damage. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, False Swipe will leave the enemy with 1 HP. Despite being a damaging move that follows the normal damage calculation, it cannot be boosted with Ginseng in the Rescue Team series. This was fixed in the Explorers series. In Gates to Infinity and Rescue Team DX, False Swipe can cause the enemy to faint, increasing the chance of that Pokémon joining the team if it does. False Swipe's effect is reverted to that of the previous games in Super Mystery Dungeon, as recruitment is not present in this entry. Blue's Scyther was revealed to know False Swipe on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Bugsy commanded his Scyther to use False Swipe in Let's Get all the Badges!, but Red's Tyrogue defeated it before it could execute the move. False Swipe's Japanese name is a reference to katanas, which are designed to have a single cutting edge on one side, while the other side is mostly flat. Thus, striking the opponent with the flat side of the katana would not be fatal.

Title: Swagger (move)

Swagger (Japanese: いばる Swagger) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It is similar to Flatter. TM87 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Swagger raises the target's Attack stat by two stages and confuses it. Even if the target is already confused, or cannot become confused due to an effect such as Safeguard, its Attack will still be raised. If the target's Attack is already at +6 stages, it will not become confused. Even if the target's Attack is already at +6 stages, it will still become confused. Even if the target has Contrary and its Attack is already at -6 stages, it will still become confused. Swagger fails if the target cannot be confused and either its Attack is at +6 stages or it has Contrary and its Attack is at -6 stages. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Swagger, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Swagger targets the enemy in front and causes them to become confused, whilst increasing the target's Attack stat by two stages. This move is affected by Magic Coat. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply raises the opponent's Attack. Leaves the target confused. In Just My Luck...Shuckle, Lucy's Seviper was revealed to know Swagger by Emerald's Pokédex.

Title: Milk Drink (move)

Milk Drink (Japanese: ミルクのみ Milk Drink) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VI and in Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Miltank. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Skiddo and Gogoat. Milk Drink restores up to 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded down. Milk Drink now restores 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded up. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Milk Drink, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Milk Drink could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it is usable and functions as it did in previous generations. Prior to Generation VII, and in Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Milk Drink can be used outside of battle to transfer some of the user's HP to another party Pokémon. Each use will transfer 20% of the user's HP, up to the target's maximum HP. The move will not work if the user has 20% or less HP left. There is a glitch involving this move in Generation IV; if the player presses "A" on a Pokémon to be healed and a direction on the D-pad on the same frame, the new Pokémon would be healed instead, possibly leading to a Pokémon having more HP than its maximum HP, or healing fainted Pokémon or Eggs. If the "Cancel" button is selected, the game will crash. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Milk Drink heals the user and all team members on the same floor for ¼ of their maximum HP. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In the Mystery Dungeon (WiiWare) games, Milk Drink restores the HP of the user and teammates on the same floor by 1/10 of their maximum HP instead. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Milk Drink now restores the HP of the user and teammates in the same room by 40% of their maximum HP. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Milk Drink could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Milk Drink could be seen as a move used by Boss Miltank. In Pokémon Gold and Silver: Official Nintendo Player's Guide, this move is erroneously referred to as Milk Berry. This is fixed in Pokémon Crystal: Official Nintendo Player's Guide. The mistake was likely a result of the Japanese names of Berries ending with 「のみ」 as well, albeit with a different meaning.

Title: Spark (move)

Spark redirects here. For the leader of Team Instinct in Pokémon GO, see Spark (GO). Spark (Japanese: スパーク Spark) is a damage dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation II. Spark inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Spark can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Charge was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. Spark deals damage and may leave the target paralyzed. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In Pokémon UNITE, Spark is Zeraora's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Agility into it instead of Volt Switch. The user leaps in a selected direction, damaging all enemies in their path. If a basic attack is used before the leap ends, the user will jump to the closest enemy, dealing additional damage to the target. Holds 3 uses in reserve - after the first use the next use must be executed within 4s or this move goes on cooldown. The second use resets this timer. At level 12, 15% missing HP is restored if performing a basic attack before reaching the enemy. Spark is the only variation of Psybeam to have been introduced after Generation I.

Title: Fury Cutter (move)

Fury Cutter (Japanese: れんぞくぎり Consecutive Cut) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM49 in Generation II. Fury Cutter starts with a base power of 10. Every time Fury Cutter hits the power will double, even if other moves are used in between. The power may double up to a maximum of 160 (which could take minimum 5 turns). If Fury Cutter misses, the user is switched out, or the player uses an item, the power will reset to normal. Fury Cutter can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Swords Dance was used in the previous turn. Fury Cutter's base power increased from 10 to 20, meaning that it takes four consecutive turns to reach the maximum power of 160. If another move is selected, its power will reset. Fury Cutter's base power increased even further from 20 to 40, meaning that it takes three consecutive turns to reach the maximum power of 160. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness as its Ability, its power is increased by 50%. Fury Cutter inflicts damage. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Fury Cutter will hit the enemy twice. From Gates to Infinity onward, Fury Cutter hits only once, but increases in power by 50% when Fury Cutter was the last move used by the user on the floor. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Its power increases when used in succession. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when used in succession. This move has a multiplier that starts at ×1, and after a sync pair connects with this move, this multiplier doubles for that specific pair to a maximum of ×8 (with four or more consecutive uses). However, if the same sync pair performs any other action (i.e., another move that the user's Trainer or Pokémon uses—or even a sync move) mid-succession or if this move misses, then this multiplier resets to ×1. In Pokémon UNITE, Fury Cutter is Crustle's second starting move. The user attacks once with his claws. Enemies hit by Fury Cutter receive a debuff that causes subsequent Fury Cutter attacks to deal 20% additional damage, with a maximum of two debuff stacks. Additional damage from this debuff is always rounded up. Fury Cutter can critically hit; however, the user's base critical hit chance is 0%. At level 6 this move is replaced by either Stealth Rock or X-Scissor. In Vanity Affair, a Trainer whom Ash was battling told his Scizor to use Fury Cutter, but it was forced to dodge Torkoal's Flamethrower, thus never completing the move. Fury Cutter is capable of having the highest power of all Bug-type moves with the exception of Savage Spin-Out, reaching 160 in the third consecutive turn. Bugsy claims to have discovered this technique by himself. In Generation II, Fury Cutter was the only Bug-type move learnable by TM. Prior to Generation V, Shedinja is able to know Fury Cutter by leveling up if Nincada is allowed to evolve only at level 20, as Ninjask learns this move at this level.

Title: Steel Wing (move)

Steel Wing (Japanese: はがねのつばさ Steel Wing) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation II. TM47 from Generation II to Generation IV, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM51 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the signature move of Skarmory in Generation V, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Steel Wing inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of raising the user's Defense by one stage. Steel Wing inflicts damage and may raise the user's Defense stat by one stage. Doduo, Dodrio, Leavanny, Elgyem, Beheeyem, Drakloak, and Dragapult can learn this move despite not having any visible wings. Mew can also learn this move, despite not having any visible wings, but it can be explained by the fact that Mew can learn every TM move.

Title: Mean Look (move)

Mean Look (Japanese: くろいまなざし Dark Look) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Mean Look prevents the target from switching out or fleeing (including via Teleport). It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. The effect only applies as long as the Pokémon that used it remains in battle. It will hit the target even if it has used Protect or Detect. The affected Pokémon can still switch out via Baton Pass, but in that case, the Pokémon that switches in will now be affected. Conversely, the Pokémon that used Mean Look can switch out with Baton Pass and the effects of Mean Look will still apply. Also, if the affected Pokémon is Roared at or hit with a Whirlwind, they will still be switched out. If a wild Pokémon uses Mean Look on the player's Pokémon, the player will be unable to escape. Pokémon affected by Mean Look can escape (but not switch out) if the Pokémon has the Ability Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. Pokémon affected by Mean Look can now switch out with U-turn. Mean Look can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Destiny Bond and Perish Song to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Curse was used in the previous turn. If a Pokémon traps a target with Mean Look and then switches with Baton Pass, the target will no longer be trapped. Pokémon affected by Mean Look can also switch out with Volt Switch. Also, Dragon Tail and Circle Throw will force the affected Pokémon to switch out. Mean Look no longer affects Ghost-type Pokémon. It will now hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Pokémon affected by Mean Look can also switch out with Parting Shot and Flip Turn. Mean Look can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Explosion, Memento, Perish Song and Self-Destruct) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Mean Look, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Mean Look inflicts the stuck (previously Leg Hold/Shadow Hold) status condition which prevents the target from moving (but may attack), or switch places with the team leader. This status lasts for 2-5/ 7turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon Ghost-type Pokémon cannot become stuck. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon UNITE, Mean Look is Umbreon's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Umbreon at level 4 and upgrading Swift into it instead of Foul Play. The user pins an opposing Pokémon. For a short time, the opposing Pokémon becomes surrounded by a black zone, which it cannot leave. While the user is in the black zone, its basic attacks become boosted attacks, and it deals increased damage. At level 10, the black zone's duration is increased. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks. The stock image used in the battle animation of Mean Look from Generation VII onwards appears to be based on Espurr's eyes, which can't itself learn the move. This trait is shared with Tearful Look and Baby-Doll EyesVII+.

Title: Attract (move)

Attract (Japanese: メロメロ Mad Love) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM45 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and TM31 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. The target becomes infatuated with the user if they have opposite genders. Attract works regardless of type immunity. Unlike most status moves, Attract is able to bypass a substitute. Attract has no effect if the user and target have the same gender, or if either of them is a gender-unknown Pokémon (such as Magnemite). It also fails when used on a Pokémon that is already infatuated. Pokémon with the Ability Oblivious or under the protection of Aroma Veil are immune to the effects of Attract. If a Pokémon is infatuated by Attract while holding a Mental Herb or an Eggant Berry, the item will be consumed and the infatuation will end. Even if the Pokémon has Oblivious, the item will still be consumed. If the target Pokémon becomes infatuated while holding a Destiny Knot, the user will also become infatuated with the target. In Generation IV only, due to an oversight, if an infatuated Pokémon has used Rage and then successfully selects a different move, the Pokémon will no longer be infatuated, but its rage will still be building. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Attract, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Unlike in Max Raid Battle, Attract does not affect opponents in Tera Raid Battle regardless of their gender since Terastallized raid bosses are immune to infatuation. Attract inflicts the Infatuated status condition on the target. Gender is a gameplay mechanic only in Explorers and Adventure Squad series; in other games, infatuation works on all Pokémon. Infatuation lasts for 5-6 / 6 turns and prevents attacks 100% / 50% of the time. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Infatuation prevented all movement or item use as well. Despite always failing when used, several gender unknown Pokémon can learn this move in certain games, such as the Staryu line (in Generation II), Mew, Cryogonal, Minior, and Dhelmise. Pokémon like Nincada, Ninjask, the Ferroseed line, the Larvesta line and Oranguru can't learn Attract in certain games despite having genders. Nincada is likely restricted from learning Attract to prevent the gender unknown Shedinja from knowing the move. Although Attract only works between opposite-gendered Pokémon, in real life, numerous animal species have been known to demonstrate homosexual behavior.

Title: Sleep Talk (move)

Sleep Talk (Japanese: ねごと Sleep Talk) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. TM82 in Generation IV and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM88 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. If the user is currently asleep, then it will automatically use a randomly selected move from its moveset. Sleep Talk will not select itself or any of the unselectable moves listed below. Sleep Talk will fail if the user is not asleep, or if the user does not know any moves other than Sleep Talk or the unselectable moves. A Pokémon with the Ability Comatose is also treated as an asleep Pokémon, and can successfully use Sleep Talk (or Snore) without having this status condition. In Double and Triple Battles, because of the inability to select a target, the chosen move will always hit a random opponent. Sleep Talk can call a move blocked by Disable, Gravity, Heal Block, Imprison, Taunt, Throat Chop, or Torment, by the Ability Cursed Body, or by the user's held Assault Vest Because Sleep Talk has normal move priority, a move with higher or lower priority may not be executed when it normally would. For instance, Sleep Talk may cause Quick Attack to be used after a normal priority move or Vital Throw to be used before a normal priority move. PP will be deducted from Sleep Talk only, which means that it can be used to execute moves that have no PP left. If Sleep Talk calls Rest, and the user does not have full HP, the user will use Rest, regain HP, and reset its sleep counter. If Sleep Talk calls Metronome or Mirror Move (which are selectable by Sleep Talk only in this generation) and thus in turn calls a two-turn move, the move will fail. Sleep Talk can call a move with no PP remaining, but will fail to execute it due to a lack of PP. When using Sleep Talk while holding a choice item or under the effect of Encore, the first use will work normally, but all subsequent uses will always fail, even if the user only has one move other than Sleep Talk. If Rest is called by Sleep Talk it will automatically fail. If Sleep Talk or Snore is used at least once consecutively in the turns right before switching out, the Pokémon will sleep for the same amount of turns as were remaining prior to the usage of those two moves when switched back in. Sleep Talk can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rest was used in the previous turn. Sleep Talk can call and successfully execute a move with no PP remaining. Turns where Sleep Talk is used are always counted towards waking the Pokémon. Sleep Talk now works multiple times if used while holding a choice item. Sleep Talk can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Rest was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Sleep Talk, the user's critical hit rate increases by two stages. Additionally, the copied move will become its corresponding Z-Move. If the copied move is a status move, it will not receive its Z-Power effect. Moves marked with ✔ cannot be selected by Sleep Talk. When the user is asleep, Sleep Talk will use a randomly selected move from its moveset. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the move will automatically be used if the Pokémon is asleep and attacked. When triggered, the user will face in the attacker's direction and use one of its moves (including itself, in which case it will fail). Any links the selected move has are ignored. Sleep Talk is unaffected by the cowering and cringing status conditions, but is affected by the Muzzled status condition. This move will be picked only if the user does not have Snore in their moveset. This move is counted as Pokémon's most recent move only if it was used manually. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Sleep Talk is now automatically triggered when the user is asleep and an enemy is adjacent to the user. It can no longer select itself. If both Sleep Talk and Snore are available in the Pokémon's moveset, the move which is listed first will be selected. Prior to Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! (when TM numbers stopped being consistent), Sleep Talk was the only move to have regained its TM status twice, as well as the only move to have ever been assigned three different TM numbers. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, Sleep Talk's description erroneously says "Uses an own move" instead of "Use its own move". This was fixed in Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness.

Title: Heal Bell (move)

Heal Bell (Japanese: いやしのすず Heal Bell) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Heal Bell cures the user, all Pokémon in the user's party, and the user's allies, of all status conditions (sleep, poison, paralysis, freeze, and burn). Heal Bell affects Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Heal Bell does not affect Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof, including inactive Pokémon. Heal Bell can affect Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof. Heal Bell no longer affects active Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof. Inactive Pokémon are healed regardless of Abilities. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Heal Bell, the user regains all of its HP. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Heal Bell. Heal Bell now always affects the user, even if it has Soundproof; however, other active Pokémon with Soundproof are still unaffected by it. Heal Bell cures the user and allies in the same room of all bad status conditions (e.g. sleep, sealed). Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof.

Title: Return (move)

"Return" may also refer to an exclamation often used in the animated series when recalling a Pokémon. Return (Japanese: おんがえし Return Favor) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM27 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Return inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. The base power of Return is dependent on the friendship of the user. The greater the user's friendship, the greater the base power. The base power can be calculated using the following formula: If the user's friendship is 127 or less, Frustration is stronger than Return. The base power of Return varies between 0 (at the minimum friendship value of 0) and 102 (at the maximum friendship value of 255). The base power of Return is now set to 1 if the formula outputs 0. Return deals damage. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Return's damage depends on the user's IQ. At 0 IQ, it deals 5 damage. The damage is increased by 5 after reaching 50 and 100 IQ, and every 100 IQ after that, until it deals a maximum 45 damage at 700 IQ. Although not possible under normal gameplay, an IQ in the range of 1000-9999 makes Return behave like a one-hit knockout move, and an IQ of 10000 or higher makes it deal only 1 damage due to a numerical overflow, while a negative value has it deal standard 5 damage. From Gates to Infinity onwards, with the removal of the IQ system, damage now increases the more dungeons the user was taken into. The damage is no longer fixed, instead based on the user's friendship, which increases by 2 upon entering a dungeon. There are four friendship tiers: 0-10, 11-20, 21-30, and 31+. The increases in power are very slight. In Pokémon GO, Return is a Charged Attack that has been available since July 22, 2019. It is exclusive to and the default move of Purified Pokémon. Upon purifying a Shadow Pokémon, Return replaces the Charged Attack in its first slot, regardless of whether that move is Frustration. If forgotten, it can't be retaught via Charged TM nor Elite Charged TM. In the Spanish version of the games prior to Generation VI, Return is called Retroceso, which is likely due to a direct translation of the word return. An accurate translation was given in Pokémon X and Y, where the move was renamed Retribución. A trailer for Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl in a Pokémon Presents shows a Super Contest Show with a Pikachu that knows Return, despite Return being unusable in those games.

Title: Present (move)

Present (Japanese: プレゼント Present) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It is the signature move of Delibird and its Paradox Pokémon counterpart, Iron Bundle. Present can either deal damage against the target or heal it for 1/4 of its maximum HP. If Present deals damage, then the base power of Present is chosen at random from 40, 80, or 120. Present's effect is chosen randomly as shown below. If the user heals the target while holding a Normal Gem, this item is still consumed even though the HP healed is not affected. Similarly, if this move's type is changed (such as from Electrify, Ion Deluge, Pixilate, etc.), this is true for the held Gem of the current type. If a Pokémon with Parental Bond uses Present and heals the target, it will only hit once. However, if it damages the target, it will hit twice. If Present is used on an ally with Telepathy, Present will always be blocked, even if it would have healed the target. If the target is affected by Heal Block, then Present will not heal its HP, although damage is still dealt normally. In this generation, Present will have a 20% chance of healing Pokémon with full HP, though the message afterwards slightly differs depending on the game. In Pokémon Gold and Silver, if it would heal the target but it has full HP, a message is displayed that says "Enemy <Pokémon> can't receive the gift!" In Pokémon Stadium 2, the move is still performed but the message "It couldn't receive the gift!" is displayed. In English Pokémon Crystal, no message will be displayed. In Gold and Silver, a glitch causes the level, Attack, and Defense variables of the damage formula to be replaced. The Attack will be replaced with 5 if the target is Rock- or Steel-type, or 10 otherwise. The level will be based on the index number of the defending Pokémon's type, and the Defense will be based on the index number of the attacking Pokémon's type (if a Pokémon has two types, its secondary type will be used). In Crystal (except in link battles) and Pokémon Stadium 2, the glitch is fixed and Present's damage calculates normally. Present will now have no effect if it would heal a Pokémon with full HP. Present can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if a certain move (Celebrate, Covet, Happy Hour or Wish) was used in the prior turn. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, Present will only target enemies in front, and either deal damage possibly heal enemies by 25% of their max HP. In the Rescue Team series, if it deals damage, it will deal 40, 80 or 120 damage, afterwards multiplying the damage by STAB and type matchup. In the Explorers series as well as the Adventure series, the damage is instead 25, 50, or 75. From Super Mystery Dungeon onwards, Present can target teammates as well as enemies. When the move targets a teammate, it will always heal 25% of their max HP. When there is a teammate at less than 50% max HP, the user will warp next to a teammate anywhere on the floor to heal their ally. Since Generation VI, there is no longer a distinct animation for a healing Present.

Title: Frustration (move)

Frustration (Japanese: やつあたり Angry Outburst) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM21 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Frustration inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. The base power of Frustration is dependent on the user's friendship. The lower the user's friendship is, the greater the base power of Frustration. The base power can be calculated using the following formula: If the user's friendship is 128 or more, Return is stronger than Frustration. The power of Frustration varies between 0 (at the maximum friendship value of 255) and 102 (at the minimum friendship value of 0). The base power of Frustration is now set to 1 if the formula outputs 0. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Frustration deals damage depending on the user's IQ. At 0 IQ, it deals 45 damage. The damage is decreased by 5 after reaching 50 and 100 IQ, and every 100 IQ after that, until it deals 5 damage at 700 IQ. Although not possible under normal gameplay, an IQ of 1000 or higher makes Frustration deal only 1 damage, while a negative value makes it behave like a one-hit knockout move. In the Adventure Squad series, the damage instead starts at 35 at 0-199 IQ, and decreases by 5 every 100 IQ until it reaches 5 damage at 700 IQ. In Gates to Infinity onwards, with the removal of the IQ system, damage now decreases the more dungeons the user has been taken into. The damage is no longer fixed, instead based on the user's friendship, which increases by 2 upon entering a dungeon. There are four friendship tiers: 0-10, 11-20, 21-30, and 31+. The increases in power are very slight. In Pokémon GO, Frustration is a Charged Attack that has been available since July 22, 2019. It is exclusive to and the default Charged Attack of Shadow Pokémon. Upon purification, Frustration is replaced by Return as the Charged Attack. Frustration cannot be replaced using a Charged TM or Elite Charged TM, except during specified events. It also cannot be retaught via Charged TM nor Elite Charged TM. Frustration is the weakest Charged attack in Pokémon GO, in both Gyms and Trainer Battles. In Crystal's Battle Tower and all core series games from Generation III to Generation VII, every non-playable Trainer's Pokémon that knows Frustration has 0 friendship.

Title: Safeguard (move)

Safeguard (Japanese: しんぴのまもり Mysterious Protection) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. TM20 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl Safeguard prevents the user and its allies from being inflicted with non-volatile status conditions and confusion for five turns. Existing status conditions are not cured by Safeguard and have their effects as normal. Safeguard does not protect from self-inflicted sleep from Rest, but does prevent confusion due to fatigue after using Outrage, Petal Dance, or Thrash. Safeguard does not prevent a Pokémon becoming confused due to its held Berserk Gene. Safeguard no longer prevents confusion due to fatigue after using Outrage, Petal Dance, or Thrash. It also does not prevent allies from being confused by a held Figy, Wiki, Mago, Aguav or Iapapa Berry. Safeguard prevents a Pokémon from being made drowsy by Yawn, but will not prevent it from falling asleep due to its effect if it is already drowsy. Safeguard does not protect the user from being inflicted with a status condition by making contact with a Pokémon with the Ability Effect Spore, Static, Flame Body or Poison Point. Safeguard prevents allies from being confused by a Figy, Wiki, Mago, Aguav or Iapapa Berry (regardless of whether it is consumed as a held item, via Fling, or via Bug Bite or Pluck) as well as being burned or poisoned by a held Flame Orb or Toxic Orb. Safeguard is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if it is hit by Defog (even if it was used by an ally). Safeguard no longer prevents allies from being confused by a Figy, Wiki, Mago, Aguav or Iapapa Berry (regardless of whether it is consumed as a held item, via Fling, or via Bug Bite or Pluck). Safeguard no longer prevents allies from being burned or poisoned by a held Flame Orb or Toxic Orb. Safeguard now protects the user from being inflicted with a status condition when making contact with a Pokémon with the Ability Effect Spore, Static, Flame Body or Poison Point. Safeguard can be bypassed by Infiltrator. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Safeguard, the user's Speed stat is also raised by one stage. Safeguard targets all team members in the same room, giving them the Safeguard status condition. This status prevents affected Pokémon from being afflicted by bad status conditions (including sleep from Drowsy), as well as move seals. Safeguard will not cure already existing status conditions. This lasts for 16-20 / 21 turns. This move is affected by Snatch. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Blocks status conditions from affecting the allied field of play. In Pokémon UNITE, Safeguard is Blissey's second move. It is obtained by evolving at level 4 and upgrading Heal Pulse into it instead of Soft-Boiled. The user grants both the targeted ally and themself a shield for 3s; purging hindrances and making both immune to hindrances for 3s. At level 10, the shield value is increased. Safeguard displays an animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution. Despite having distinct effects in the games, Reflect, Light Screen, Barrier, Protect, and Safeguard are often depicted in the animated series seemingly sharing the same effect that Protect has in the games (protecting the user from most the effect of moves).

Title: Pain Split (move)

Pain Split (Japanese: いたみわけ Pain Split) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Misdreavus, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM202 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Pain Split adds the current HP of the user and target Pokémon. It then divides this value by two, rounds down if necessary, and increases or decreases the HP of each Pokémon to become equal to the result (limited by each Pokémon's maximum HP). This setting of HP is not subject to effects such as Counter or Bide. Pain Split does not employ type effectiveness, so it can also affect Ghost-type Pokémon. Pain Split fails if the target is behind a substitute. Pain Split now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Generation III only, a loss of HP due to Pain Split contributes to the accumulated damage of Bide; it still is not subject to other effects such as Counter. Pain Split can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Endure was used in the previous turn. Pain Split can no longer contribute to the accumulated damage of Bide. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if the move Endure was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Pain Split, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Pain Split averages the two Pokémon's non-Dynamax HP, calculates the signed difference between that average and each Pokémon's non-Dynamax HP, then changes each Pokémon's HP by that signed difference. Pain Split targets a Pokémon in front, distributing its and the user's HP equally between the two. In Pokémon UNITE, Pain Split is Trevenant's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Branch Poke into it instead of Horn Leech. The user creates a link between them and a designated enemy for 6s. While the link holds, a portion of the damage the user receives is redirected to the linked enemy. The lower the user's remaining HP, the greater the percentage of damage that is redirected. Additionally, if the user's percentage of remaining HP is lower than the linked enemy, this move continuously deals damage and recovers the user's HP equal to the damage dealt every .5s. If the user and the linked enemy are too far apart, the link will disappear. Using this move increases the user's movement speed for a short time. At level 13, the link's duration is increased to 8.5s. Pain Split's Japanese name is a phrase that is specifically a sumo wrestling term used formerly in the rule, which refers to calling a draw on a match because one player is too injured to continue. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks. If Shedinja uses Pain Split (via Mimic), it will cut the target's HP in half, similarly to Super Fang.

Title: Sacred Fire (move)

Sacred Fire (Japanese: せいなるほのお Sacred Flame) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature move of Ho-Oh. Sacred Fire inflicts damage, with a 50% chance of burning the target. If the user is frozen, using Sacred Fire will thaw out the user and deal damage to the target in the same turn. Sacred Fire can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Sacred Fire could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Sacred Fire deals damage and may leave the target with a burn. In Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team only, this move cannot hit frozen targets, unlike other Fire moves. When used in Gates to Infinity, it requires a turn to charge up. Sacred Fire is a move in Pokémon GO that has been available since February 26, 2022. Sacred Fire also has two variants: Sacred Fire+ and Sacred Fire++. Sacred Fire+ is the default Charged Attack for Apex Shadow Ho-Oh. Upon purification, Sacred Fire+ will change to Sacred Fire++. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Removes the frozen condition from the user. Has a good chance of leaving the target burned. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Jessie told her Seviper to use Sacred Fire, but since Seviper cannot learn the move, it couldn't execute it.

Title: Magnitude (move)

Magnitude (Japanese: マグニチュード Magnitude) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation II. Magnitude's power varies based on a randomly selected "magnitude" value ranging from 4 to 10, with 4 having the least power and 10 having the greatest. Magnitude can hit a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig, and if it does, it will have its power doubled for that Pokémon. If Magnitude hits a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig, instead of doubling in power, the damage is doubled instead, resulting in virtually the same effect. If Grassy Terrain is in effect, Magnitude deals only half the usual damage. Magnitude damages all other Pokémon in the room, dealing a variable amount of damage dependent on the Magnitude level. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Magnitude deals 5, 10, 15, 25, 30, 35 or 40 fixed damage, afterwards multiplying the damage by STAB and type matchup. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, the damage values are 10, 20, 30, 35, 40, 50, and 60; they are unaffected by STAB and type matchup. Starting in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Magnitude deals regular damage, with its power multiplier depending on the Magnitude level: 0.1, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.25, 1.5, or 2.0. Magnitude deals double damage to Pokémon using Dig. Despite being introduced in Generation II, no Pokémon introduced in Generation II could learn Magnitude until Generation IV. At 150 base power, Magnitude 10 has the highest base power of all Ground-type moves. At base power 10, Magnitude 4 has the lowest base power of all Ground-type moves and is tied with Constrict for the lowest fixed base power of any move. Due to the 2004 Chuetsu earthquake, this move, along with Fissure and Earthquake, has not been used in the animated series since AG101 (which itself has never been aired).

Title: Dynamic Punch (move)

Dynamic Punch (Japanese: ばくれつパンチ Exploding Punch), formatted as DynamicPunch prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM01 in Generation II. Dynamic Punch inflicts damage and has a 255/256 (~99.6%) chance of confusing the target. Dynamic Punch gains a 20% power boost when used by a Pokémon with Iron Fist. Dynamic Punch can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy or Mind Reader was used in the previous turn. Dyanmic Punch deals damage and leaves the target confused. In Pokémon GO, Dynamic Punch is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Dynamic Punch is Machamp's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Machoke at level 5 and upgrading Bulk Up into it instead of Submission. The user jumps to target location, briefly stunning enemies hit and dealing damage four times in quick succession to the landing radius. The user’s Atk is increased by 15% and gains bonus movement speed for 6 seconds when using Dynamic Punch.. At level 11, the attack and movement speed bonuses are increased. In PSs1, Red mentioned that his Poliwrath, Poli, knows Dynamic Punch, but he has never been seen using the move. Although it does not possess any hands, Wooper can learn Dynamic Punch. Due to a glitch in Generation IV, when a Pokémon performs the Dynamic Punch animation, the opponent Pokémon sprite is translated by one pixel to the left.

Title: Megahorn (move)

Megahorn (Japanese: メガホーン Megahorn) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM60 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and TR28 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Heracross. Megahorn deals damage and has no secondary effect. Giovanni's Nidoking was revealed to know Megahorn on the official website, but he was never shown using the move. Megahorn has the highest base power of all Bug-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Savage Spin-Out based on Megahorn has the highest power of all Bug-type moves. In Pokémon Stadium 2, Bugsy erroneously refers to this move as "Megaphone" when his Heracross (present only in Round 2) uses it. This is possibly due to a translation error, as ホーン can mean horn or phone (as an alternate writing of フォーン) in Japanese. This is also why this move was mistranslated as Megaphone in Korean versions prior to Generation IX. However, it should be noted that in an early prototype version of Pokémon Gold and Silver, there actually was a move called "Megaphone" (written in Japanese as 「メガホーン」) which had an associated megaphone sprite that appeared when the move was used in battle. That sprite remains unused in the code of the final versions of Pokémon Gold and Silver. This very move was, in the final versions of Generation II, replaced by Megahorn. The fact that both Megahorn and Megaphone are written identically in Japanese suggests that Game Freak decided at some point during development that it would be better to have the Bug-type Megahorn move rather than the Megaphone move, which had been for example part of the movesets of Hoothoot and Noctowl. That would mean that the name "Megahorn" itself arose out of a reanalysis of 「メガホーン」 [megahōn] ("megaphone").

Title: Dragon Breath (move)

Dragon Breath (Japanese: りゅうのいぶき Dragon Breath), formatted as DragonBreath prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM24 in Generation II. Dragon Breath inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Dragon Breath can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Dragon Claw, Dragon Dance, and Dragon Rage to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Dragon Dance or Dragon Rage was used in the previous turn. Dragon Breath deals damage, and may leave the target paralyzed. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Dragon Breath has a base PP of 20 and requires a turn to charge up. Altered Forme Giratina appears as a Poké Ball summon in both the 3DS and Wii U versions of the game. It blows opponents off of the stage with Dragon Breath. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Giratina returns as a Pokémon summoned from the Poké Ball, retaining its behavior from the previous game. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragon Breath is Dragonite's second starting move as Dratini. The user exhales a mighty gust in the designated direction. If this move hits an enemy, the user's next attack becomes a boosted attack. After evolving from Dragonair at level 8, this move is replaced by either Hyper Beam or Outrage. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer Dragon Breath is the only Dragon-type move able to inflict paralysis. Dragon Breath's description in Generation II and Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald does not mention its secondary effect. It and Tri Attack are the only moves to not mention theirs.

Title: Baton Pass (move)

Baton Pass (Japanese: バトンタッチ Baton Touch) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TR29 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM132 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Baton Pass switches out the user, passing all temporary stat stage increases and decreases on to the Pokémon that replaces it in battle. Baton Pass also passes some volatile status conditions, namely confusion, getting pumped, escape prevention, Ability suppression, seeding, Curse, Substitute, Ingrain, Power Trick, Heal Block, Embargo, Perish Song, Magnet Rise, and Aqua Ring. Ability suppression disappears if the replacement Pokémon's Ability cannot be suppressed. Baton Pass passes the effect of Telekinesis, unless the replacement Pokémon is Mega Gengar. Prior to Generation V, if a Pokémon prevents a target from escaping and then uses Baton Pass, the target will be trapped. Starting in Generation V, this effect cannot be passed by the user. In all generations, the effect can be passed if the Pokémon that can't escape uses Baton Pass. Baton Pass does not pass non-volatile status conditions, infatuation, drowsiness (from Yawn or G-Max Snooze), center of attention (from Spotlight), a type change, Ability change, a move learned by Mimic, or a transformation (from Transform or Imposter). It also does not pass the effects of Disable (even if the replacement Pokémon knows the disabled move), Imprison, or Defense Curl's effect of doubling the power of Rollout or Ice Ball, or the critical hit rate boosts from G-Max Chi Strike. It does not pass Minimize's tiny sprite, or its effect of causing the user to become more vulnerable to some moves (Stomp, Steamroller, Heat Crash, etc.). Even though the Baton Pass user switches out, Pursuit has no additional power or priority against it. Baton Pass fails if there are no other Pokémon in the user's party that can be switched in in its place. From Generation II to IV, the animation will always display a normal Poké Ball. Starting in Generation V, the correct type of Poké Ball the user was caught with is displayed in the animation. Baton Pass can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if a certain move (Agility, Amnesia, Autotomize, Calm Mind, Cotton Guard, Hone Claws, Nasty Plot, Rock Polish, or Shell Smash) was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Baton Pass, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Baton Pass targets all other Pokémon in the room and consecutively swaps places with them (assuming it doesn't miss them) in a mostly random order (prioritizing allies before enemies). A Pokémon that stays on a tile they cannot walk on will be warped away. In Gates to Infinity, the user switches places with a teammate in front, and the switched ally receives a random stat boost; when used by an enemy, they will switch places with another enemy on the floor. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the user now switches with a teammate anywhere on the floor who is ordered first on the team list (or second on the list if the user is listed first). Prior to Generation V, Shedinja is able to know Baton Pass by leveling up if Nincada is allowed to evolve only at level 45, as Ninjask learns this move at this level.

Title: Encore (move)

Encore redirects here. For the bad status condition in the Mystery Dungeon series, see Status condition (Mystery Dungeon). Encore (Japanese: アンコール Encore) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TR30 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM122 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Encore temporarily prevents the target from using any move except the last used move. In every generation, Encore fails if the last move the target used was Transform, Mimic, Sketch, Mirror Move, Encore itself, Struggle, or a move that has no PP left. It also fails if the foe has not used a move yet. If the Pokémon affected by Encore runs out of PP for the affected move, the effects of Encore end immediately. If the move the Pokémon is locked into by Encore is currently blocked by Disable, Gravity, Heal Block, Imprison, Taunt, Throat Chop, or Torment, the Pokémon will be forced to use Struggle. In particular, a Pokémon under the effect of both Encore and Torment will be forced to use Struggle every two turns. Encore cannot affect a Pokémon under the effect of Aroma Veil. Encore will fail if used against a Pokémon that has an active Shell Trap in waiting. If a Pokémon is forced to use Beak Blast on a turn it chose another move, Beak Blast will fail. Encore can be used successfully any turn after the opponent went to sleep using Rest as long as it doesn't use Sleep Talk or wake up; moreover, the duration of Encore also takes into account the turns that the target spends sleeping without doing anything. Encore also works if the opponent had used Rest while at maximum HP. If the target has Truant, Encore will still work, forcing it to be locked into the last used move. Encore fails if the last move the target used was a move that calls other moves (i.e. Sleep Talk and Metronome). If a Pokémon is affected by Encore before it can use its move that turn, it will be forced to use the move that Encore has locked it into. In Pokémon Stadium 2, if Roar or Whirlwind are used and the Pokémon that was forcefully summoned uses Encore in the next turn, Encore fails; however if Roar or Whirlwind are used when there is only one opposing Pokémon and it uses Encore in the next turn, then Encore succeeds. Encore will no longer fail against moves that call other moves, aside from Mirror Move. A Pokémon affected by Encore cannot select the targets of its moves. If the Pokémon chooses to use the move, if that move can target a foe, a random foe will be targeted. If a Pokémon is affected by Encore before it uses its move that turn, and it is now locked into a move other than the one it selected, it will be forced to use the move that Encore has locked it into; even if the move it is forced to use has a different priority than the move it had selected, the Pokémon will still move with the priority of the move it had selected. If the move the Pokémon is forced to use is the same as it had selected, the move will execute on its designated target that turn; otherwise, if the move it is locked into is a move that can target a single opponent, it will target a random opponent. If a Pokémon is forced to use Focus Punch on a turn it chose another move, the charging message does not appear, but it will still lose its focus if it took damage from an attack that turn. Encore lasts for 3 to 7 turns. Its description in Diamond and Pearl uses the turn count from the previous generation, which is incorrect. If a Pokémon is forced to use Acupressure on a turn it chose another move, it will randomly target either itself or an ally when executed. Encore now lasts exactly 3 turns. It can now be reflected by Magic Coat, but will then fail. A Pokémon affected by Encore can now select the target of its moves. If a Pokémon is forced to use Focus Punch on a turn it chose another move, the charging message does not appear and it can be executed regardless of whether the Pokémon took damage that turn. If a Pokémon is forced to use Acupressure on a turn it chose another move, it will always target the user, not an ally. Encore can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Counter, Destiny Bond, Grudge, King's Shield, Metal Burst, Mirror Coat and Spite) to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. Encore once again fails if the target's last move was a move that calls other moves, and additionally fails if it was Dynamax Cannon or a Z-Move. A Pokémon affected by Encore can use a Z-Move even if it is locked into another move (including on the same turn it became affected by Encore). If a Pokémon is forced to use a move at an increased priority due to selecting a priority move before being affected by an even faster Encore, Pokémon affected by Psychic Terrain, Queenly Majesty, Dazzling, or Armor Tail will block that move, even if the move that ends up being used does not normally have priority. Dark-type Pokémon will also block the move if the reason for the increased priority was Prankster, no matter if the replacement move is a status move or not. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Encore, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Encore fails if it targets a Dynamax Pokémon. Dynamax Pokémon that are affected by Encore (due to being inflicted with it before Dynamaxing) can use moves regardless of Encore. If a Pokémon's Dynamax recently ended, and Encore is then used against it before it can make another move, it will be forced to use the base move that powered up into its most recent Max Move. Encore inflicts the Encore status condition on the enemy. The afflicted Pokémon will only be able to use the move it had most recently used. This status lasts for 6-11 / 11 turns. From Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, the move can be reflected by Magic Coat. Encore displays an animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution.

Title: Pursuit (move)

Pursuit (Japanese: おいうち Pursuing Attack) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation II. Pursuit inflicts damage with a power of 40. If the target Pokémon is switched out on the turn Pursuit is used, Pursuit's power doubles, and it will immediately be used before it is switched out (including an accuracy check). This does not apply if used on an ally switching out, on a fleeing Pokémon, on a Pokémon using Teleport or Baton Pass, or on a Pokémon being forced to switch out. If the target is switched out, Pursuit will no longer perform an accuracy check (but always hit the target with double power before it is switched out). Pursuit will now hit any adjacent opponent that attempts to switch out (but not more than one per turn), regardless of who it originally targeted. This effect bypasses redirection effects such as Follow Me. If the target is using U-turn, Pursuit's special effect will activate only if the user of Pursuit would usually act later than the target (its power will only be doubled in that case). In the Japanese version of Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, when a Pokémon holding a Choice item uses Pursuit and the opponent Pokémon switches out, the Pokémon holding the item is allowed to change its move on the next turn. This glitch was fixed in localized versions and Platinum. In Pokémon Platinum, and HeartGold and SoulSilver, this move can trigger the acid rain glitch by knocking out a target that was about to switch while Trick Room, Gravity, Uproar, or any type of weather other than rain is active. If the target is using Volt Switch or Parting Shot, Pursuit's special effect will activate only if the user of Pursuit would usually act later than the target (its power will only be doubled in that case). In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Pursuit is a non-damaging move which gives the user the Counter status condition. With this status condition, the user will reflect any damage taken from physical moves (including the regular A button attack) back to any adjacent opponents equal to the damage received. Oddly in Explorers of Time and Darkness, though moves are assigned as Physical or Special in game, the Counter status will return damage from damaging moves from types previously assigned as physical prior to the Physical/Special split. The status lasts for 7-12 turns. From Gates to Infinity onward, Pursuit deals damage, inflicting 50% extra damage when used on a target afflicted with a bad status condition. In Pokémon UNITE, Pursuit is Absol's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 5 and upgrading Feint into it instead of Night Slash. The user ashes in an arc, damaging and slowing the first Pokémon hit. If the user hits, it can be activated again for a brief period of time – allowing the user to dash, dealing damage to all Pokémon hit. At level 11, the move heals the user heals on hit, and if the damage is a critical hit, the heal doubles. Although Pursuit is the only move that can be performed before switching, its priority is still 0.

Title: Rapid Spin (move)

Rapid Spin (Japanese: こうそくスピン Rapid Spin) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Rapid Spin inflicts damage and then removes the effects of any binding effects and Leech Seed from the user, as well as entry hazards from the user's side of the field (unless the user has fainted as a result of the move, such as from Rough Skin). Rapid Spin now has a power of 50. When inflicting damage, Rapid Spin now also raises the user's Speed by one stage. Rapid Spin deals damage and removes the Leech Seed status from the user, as well as any status conditions that prevent the Pokémon from moving (e.g. bound, Ingrain, Fire Spin). Starting with Gates to Infinity, it will also remove any traps from the tile in front. In Pokémon UNITE, Rapid Spin is Blastoise's and Tsareena's second move. Blastoise can obtain the move by reaching level 7 as Wartortle and upgrading Skull Bash into it instead of Surf. The user withdraws into its shell and begins rapidly spinning, resetting the cooldown of its other move. The user is unstoppable for the duration of Rapid Spin and can freely move about the battlefield. While spinning, the user will damage and slow nearby enemies. The user's next basic attack after Rapid Spin ends becomes boosted. For the duration of Rapid Spin, the mechanics of the user's Basic attacks as well as Hydro Pump and Water Spout are changed. At level 13 or higher, the user gains a massive amount of Defense and Sp. Defense for the duration of Rapid Spin. Tsareena starts with the move as Bounsweet. The user spins in the designated direction, dealing damage to any enemy hit. When this move hits, the user's movement speed is increased for a short time. Upon evolving from Steenee at level 6, it is replaced by either Trop Kick or Grassy Glide. Rapid Spin was one of the first Generation II moves introduced and named. It was seen being used by Mewtwo's Blastoisetwo in Mewtwo Strikes Back, prior to the release of Gold and Silver. The animation for Rapid Spin when used by Blastoise in Pokémon UNITE and Pokkén Tournament DX is akin to how Ash's Squirtle uses Hydro Pump in Pokémon the Series, which appears to be a reference to Gamera's spinning flight.

Title: Sweet Scent (move)

If you were looking for the e-Reader application, see Sweet Scent (e-Reader). Sweet Scent (Japanese: あまいかおり Sweet Scent) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It was TM12 in Generation II. Sweet Scent lowers the evasion of all adjacent opponents by one stage. In the Generation II core series games, when an in-game opponent outside of the Battle Tower uses Sweet Scent, the move has a 25% chance to fail. Sweet Scent can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing PoisonPowder, Sleep Powder, and Stun Spore to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Sweet Scent now lowers the targets' evasion by two stages. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Sweet Scent, the user's accuracy is raised one stage. Sweet Scent causes wild Pokémon to appear when used as a field move, provided the player is standing in an area where wild Pokémon would normally appear. Sweet Scent will cause a wild encounter even if Repel is in effect. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl only, using Sweet Scent (or Honey) inside a shop or Poké Mart will cause the descriptive text of purchasable items to vanish until the player opens the "SELL" menu or leaves the shop. This is known as the Poké Mart text glitch. Sweet Scent will initiate a Horde Encounter if Horde Encounters can take place in the location it is used. Otherwise, a normal wild encounter will be triggered. In Pokémon X and Y, Sweet Scent can only be used under clear weather. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Sweet Scent is unaffected by the weather. Sweet Scent can no longer be used outside of battle. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Sweet Scent cannot be used outside of battle, but it can be in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Sweet Scent can no longer be used outside of battle. Sweet Scent lowers the evasiveness of all enemies in the same room by one stage. From Super Mystery Dungeon, Sweet Scent has a chance to reduce the Belly of affected Pokémon by 5 on top of its usual effect. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Sweet Scent could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Sweet Scent could be seen as a move used by opposing Spritzee. When appearing from a Poké Ball, Bellossom uses Sweet Scent and starts dancing and releasing a cloud of powder. Any opponents that make contact with it fall asleep. The victims cannot move until they are attacked or when it disappears. Bellossom stays on the stage longer compared to other Pokémon. Despite its name, it will still attract Pokémon who do not like sweet flavors. All Pokémon that can have Honey Gather can learn this move. Sweet Scent was the first Generation II move seen in the animated series. Sweet Scent was introduced in the Pokémon Adventures manga prior to the games. Though the animated series and the Pokémon Adventures manga consistently depict this move as acting through a powder, Sweet Scent has never been classified as a powder move in the games.

Title: Iron Tail (move)

Iron Tail (Japanese: アイアンテール Iron Tail) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation II. TM23 from Generations II to IV as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM19 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Iron Tail inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. Iron Tail's PP has been lowered to 5. It may lower the opponent's defensive stats. Iron Tail deals damage. It may lower the target's Defense by one stage. Iron Tail is a move learnable by Pikachu in PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure. Pikachu does not know the move at the beginning of the game, so it must be taught to him by Primeape for a cost of 350 Berries. Unlike Dash and Thunderbolt, this move cannot be used outside of battle. It can be used by shaking the Wii Remote during battle. The move's power is upgradeable by returning to Primeape and paying more Berries. In Pokémon GO, Iron Tail is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Sygna Suit Giovanni & Nidoking's passive skill Giovanni's Cunning makes their use of this move never miss. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance lowering the target's Defense. Description of default effects prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): Become Mega Steelix until the end of battle. The more the user's Defense is raised, the greater the power of this move. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): The stat increase after a sync move is doubled once per battle. Unlike some sync moves, this attack could not be upgraded to 6★ EX since its release date (of May 21, 2020) until 195 days later (on December 2, 2020). Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Mashing Makuhita, Sapphire told her Lairon, Rono, to use Iron Tail, but the move was never seen being executed. Despite the narrative implying the need for a tail to perform this attack, Pokémon that lose their tails when they evolve (such as Primeape) or do not have a tail but gain one upon Evolution (such as Nidoran♀) can still learn and use this attack. This is highlighted in PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure, where a Primeape works as the tutor for Iron Tail and mentions they can use the move without an actual tail.

Title: Metal Claw (move)

Metal Claw (Japanese: メタルクロー Metal Claw) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation II. It is TM031 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Metal Claw deals damage and has a 10% chance of raising the user's Attack stat by one stage. Metal Claw can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Metal Sound was used in the previous turn. Metal Claw inflicts damage and may raise the user's Attack by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of raising the user's Attack. In Pokémon UNITE, Metal Claw is Duraludon's second move. The user sends sharp claws forward; dealing damage to enemies hit and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. After this move is used, the user's next basic attack becomes a boosted attack. After reaching level 7, this move is replaced by either Dragon Tail or Stealth Rock. In Getting the Drop on Gallade I, a Zangoose used in the Battle Castle was revealed to know Metal Claw, but it was never seen using the move. In FireRed and LeafGreen, Charmander's evolutionary line were capable of learning Metal Claw by leveling up. However, they are unable to do so in later generations, other than via breeding. This may be to give players who choose Charmander as their first partner an advantage over the first Gym. Furthermore, in Generation IX, Charmeleon and Charizard are unable to learn Metal Claw via TM, while Charmander can. Metal Claw is the only move with base PP of 35 not introduced in Generation I.

Title: Vital Throw (move)

Vital Throw (Japanese: あてみなげ Strike Throw) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation III, it was the signature move of Machop's evolutionary line. Vital Throw deals damage and is a decreased priority move, causing the user to attack after other Pokémon that are using ordinary priority moves. However, it will strike before Pokémon using other decreased priority moves such as Focus Punch and Avalanche. Vital Throw bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Vital Throw can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Fake Out was used in the previous turn. It can also part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Entrainment, Hold Hands or Play Nice was used in the prior turn. In the Rescue Team, Vital Throw is a status move. The user gains the Vital Throw status condition for 18 turns. An adjacent Pokémon that directly inflicts damage on a Pokémon with the Vital Throw status is sent flying, usually towards the other side of the room. The attacker will be thrown even when using a move that hits multiple targets, such as Night Shade or if the user is paralyzed. In Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, the user will no longer throw the attacker when paralyzed or hit by a move that hits multiple targets. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Vital Throw is a regular move which deals damage. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks. Vital Throw's Japanese name Atemi-nage alludes to judo atemi waza (strikes) and nage waza (throws). Its depiction in the animated series is similar to an ura nage, incorrectly translated as a side slam in American wrestling.

Title: Morning Sun (move)

Morning Sun (Japanese: あさのひざし Morning Sunlight) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. In Generation II, it was the signature move of Espeon. Morning Sun restores the user's current HP based on the weather and time of day. In day and at night, during no weather it restores ¼ total HP, during harsh sunlight it restores ½ total HP, and during other weather it restores ⅛ total HP, rounded down. Except in link battles, the move restores twice as much HP in the morning. Morning Sun restores the user's current HP based on the weather in the battle. During no weather or during strong winds it restores ½ total HP, during harsh sunlight it restores ⅔ total HP, and during other weather it restores ¼ total HP, rounded down. Morning Sun can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if the move Sunny Day was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Morning Sun, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Morning Sun restores HP to the user and teammates. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Morning Sun heals a set amount of HP rather than a percentage. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Morning Sun only affects the user and teammates in the same room rather than the entire floor.

Title: Synthesis (move)

Synthesis (Japanese: こうごうせい Photosynthesis) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation II. Synthesis restores the user's current HP based on the weather and time of day. In morning and night, during no weather it restores ¼ total HP, during harsh sunlight it restores ½ total HP, and during other weather it restores ⅛ total HP, rounded down. Except in link battles, the move restores twice as much HP during the daytime. Synthesis restores the user's current HP based on the weather in the battle. During no weather or during strong winds, it restores ½ total HP, during harsh sunlight, it restores ⅔ total HP, and during other weather, it restores ¼ total HP, rounded down. Synthesis can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if the move Sunny Day was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Synthesis, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Synthesis restores HP to the user. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Synthesis would heal a set amount of HP. From Gates to Infinity onward, Synthesis heals HP as a percentage of the user's max HP. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Synthesis could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Synthesis could be seen as a move used by Boss Lilligant. In Pokémon UNITE, Synthesis is Eldegoss's second move. The user uses sunlight to heal itself and nearby allies. At level 6, this move is replaced by either Cotton Guard or Cotton Spore.

Title: Moonlight (move)

If you were looking for the Pokémon: Twilight Wings episode with the same name, see TW06. Moonlight (Japanese: つきのひかり Moonlight) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation VI, it was a Normal-type move. Moonlight restores the user's current HP based on the weather and time of day. In the morning and daytime, during no weather, it restores ¼ total HP, during harsh sunlight it restores ½ total HP, and during other weather it restores ⅛ total HP, rounded down. Except in link battles, the move restores twice as much HP at night. Moonlight restores the user's current HP based on the weather in the battle. During no weather it restores ½ total HP, during harsh sunlight it restores ⅔ total HP, and during other weather it restores ¼ total HP, rounded down. Moonlight can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Moonlight is now a Fairy-type move. When used during strong winds it restores ½ total HP, rounded down. Moonlight can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an three extra appeal points if the move Sunny Day was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Moonlight, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Moonlight restores HP to the user and teammates. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Moonlight heals a set amount of HP rather than a percentage. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Moonlight only affects the user and teammates in the same room rather than the entire floor. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Moonlight could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Moonlight could be seen as a move used by Boss Munna, Musharna, and Lunala. Moonlight is one of the four moves from Generation II to have its type changed in a later generation, the others being Charm, Curse, and Sweet Kiss. Excluding Curse, all of them were Normal-type moves that became Fairy-type moves in Generation VI.

Title: Hidden Power (move)

Hidden Power (Japanese: めざめるパワー Awakening Power) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. Although it appears as a Normal-type move, Hidden Power's actual type varies. It was TM10 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. From Generation VIII onward, it is the signature move of Unown. Hidden Power can be any type, other than Normal and Fairy, based on its user's IVs. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it instead changes its type to be super effective against the opposing Pokémon. Hidden Power receives a same-type attack bonus if its type matches the user's type. From Generation III to V, its power also depends on its user's IVs. From Generation VI onward, its power is fixed at 60. In Generation II and III, it can be either physical or special, corresponding to its type. Due to being treated as a Normal-type move regardless, it can only activate Counter and will never activate Mirror Coat. Starting in Generation IV, it is always special. Due to never being a Normal-type move, Hidden Power is unaffected by Pixilate, Refrigerate, Aerilate, and Ion Deluge. If the user is under the effect of Electrify, Hidden Power's type will become Electric. Hidden Power is always treated as Normal-type for Z-Move mechanics, and can be upgraded to Breakneck Blitz by a Normalium Z. Hidden Power now changes its own type to be super effective against the opposing Pokémon, prioritizing any double weaknesses of dual-typed opponents. While selecting a move, Hidden Power displays the type that it will become against the selected opponent if used that turn. If multiple types are equally effective, Hidden Power's type is chosen at random from those types. This calculation is done on each turn, so if there are multiple valid types, Hidden Power's type may vary between them each turn. Hidden Power deals damage, and its type and base power will vary each type the Pokémon enters a new dungeon. In the Rescue Team series, the type is selected among each of the 17 types with roughly equal probability (the game chooses from the 18 types, including typeless, choosing again if typeless is chosen; if this is done 100 times consecutively, Hidden Power will be of the Fire-type). The base power of the move is chosen among the following values with equal probability: 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 15, and 17. On the description menu, Hidden Power is shown as a typeless move. From Super Mystery Dungeon on, Hidden Power has a set power. In Pokémon GO, Hidden Power is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. While Hidden Power is a Normal-type move in the game data, its actual type varies between individual Pokémon and is visible on the status screen of that Pokémon. Like in the core series, Hidden Power cannot be Normal- or Fairy-type; however, Hidden Power's type is not dependent on IVs and is instead randomly determined. If two players catch the same instance of a wild Pokémon that knows Hidden Power, the resulting Hidden Power type may still differ between the two players. If a Pokémon evolves, its Hidden Power type will also be randomly re-rolled. Hidden Power's type cannot be changed using a Fast TM or Elite Fast TM. If the player uses an Elite Fast TM on a Pokémon that can learn Hidden Power, its Hidden Power type will be displayed on the move selection screen. If the player battles against a Pokémon that knows Hidden Power in a Raid Battle or Team GO Rocket Battle, the Hidden Power type will always be Fighting. However, its Hidden Power type will be randomly re-rolled if the player ends up capturing that same Pokémon. Dynamax Pokémon with Hidden Power as their Fast Attack always have Max Strike as their attacking Max Move, regardless of Hidden Power's type. Unlike other moves, Hidden Power's type effectiveness is not announced in Trainer Battles. In Pokémon Masters EX, Hidden Power's type is always Psychic. Hidden Power is randomly assigned any of the 18 types whenever a Toy Pokémon has it as one of its moves. The type does not change for as long as the Pokémon keeps the move. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, Hidden Power can only be used by opposing Unown, and cannot be obtained by the player. Hidden Power's type varies with each opposing Unown. In the English dub of A Three Team Scheme!, Keanu told his Nincada to use Hidden Power. In the original Japanese version, Keanu told Nincada to use Secret Power instead. In the preview for the unaired AG101, Chōta's Barboach is seen using Hidden Power. Multiple wild Unown were revealed to know Hidden Power on the official web site, but they were never shown using the move. Despite the only move Unown can learn being Hidden Power—learning it at level 1—it could not learn it via TM until Generation VI. However, this makes no functional difference other than cheating other moves onto it or when searching by TM/HM compatibility, since Unown will always already know Hidden Power and thus be unable to learn it via TM. Prior to Generation IV, Hidden Power, along with Weather Ball, were the only two moves which could vary between being physical or special, due to the damage category being determined by the type. In Generation II, due to gender being determined by IVs, Hidden Power of a female Pokémon of species with a seven male to one female ratio can only be a physical type. In Generation II, due to the spread of individual values required for Shininess, Shiny Pokémon could only use a Grass- or Dragon-type Hidden Power with power 49 or 69. Due to the Roaming Pokémon IV bug, a roaming Pokémon caught in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, FireRed, or LeafGreen will always have a Hidden Power type of Fighting, and a power of 30 or 31. It is impossible for Pokémon in the No Eggs Discovered Egg Group that are caught or obtained as a gift in Pokémon X and Y to have a Fighting-type Hidden Power. In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire and the Generation VII games, this is true only for Legendary Pokémon, Mythical Pokémon, and Ultra Beasts in the No Eggs Discovered Egg Group. This is because these Pokémon are guaranteed to have at least three IVs of 31, whereas a Fighting-type Hidden Power requires at least four IVs that are even numbers. Despite Hidden Power not being able to be used in battle in Sword and Shield, the method of determining its type is still present. This can be seen by entering a battle with a Pokémon that knows it and then entering the move selection, where Hidden Power's type effectiveness will be displayed if the opposing Pokémon has been seen in the Pokédex. Pokémon Masters EX is the only game in which Hidden Power can only have one type, Psychic.

Title: Cross Chop (move)

Cross Chop (Japanese: クロスチョップ Cross Chop) is a damage dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. Cross Chop deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Cross Chop can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. Cross Chop inflicts damage. It has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Cross Chop appears as one of Machamp's Pokémon moves. It replaces Bulk Up while under its effects or during a Synergy Burst. When used, Machamp lunges forward powerfully with his arms crossed. Cross Chop is Incineroar's up special. When used, Incineroar leaps into the air and shoots down aflame at an angle with crossed arms. It acts as a recovery move for returning to the stage. However, if it doesn't connect, it can easily cause Incineroar to fall off the stage on accident. In Pokémon UNITE, Cross Chop is Machamp's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 as Machoke and upgrading Karate Chop into it instead of Close Combat. The user dashes forward dealing damage to enemies hit. Cross Chop has an increased critical hit rate and can critically strike. At level 13, the move also increases basic attack's Attack by 2 stacking 40 times.

Title: Twister (move)

Twister (Japanese: たつまき Twister) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation II. Twister inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of causing each target to flinch. Twister can hit a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly and Bounce, and if it does, will deal double the damage. It will hit all adjacent opponents in battles featuring multiple Pokémon. If Twister hits a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly or Bounce, its power will now be doubled instead of the damage dealt (resulting in virtually the same effect). Twister can now hit a Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly, Bounce and Sky Drop, and if it does, will deal double the damage (rather than double in power). Twister will knock down Berries growing on Berry trees found in the background of battles. Twister targets only one Pokémon, like all other moves in this game. It lowers the target's action speed. Twister deals damage and may cause the target to flinch. The move can damage enemies in the air due to moves such as Fly or Bounce, and if it does, will deal double the damage. The chance of applying a status change from this move is calculated for each target individually. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of making the target flinch. In Pokémon UNITE, Twister is Dragonite's first move as Dratini. The move creates a twister and releases it in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies hit and decreases their movement speed for a short time. After evolving into Dragonair at level 5 it is replaced by either Dragon Dance or Extreme Speed. In The True Road to Becoming the Strongest!!, Blue told his Pidgeot to use Twister, but it was defeated before it could use the move. The Japanese name of Twister, たつまき (竜巻) Tatsumaki, literally means "dragon spiral", and refers to the belief that dragons spiral around themselves to form the shapes of twisters. At 40 base power, Twister has the second lowest base power of all Dragon-type moves after Scale Shot. In French, the Lake of Outrage is named after this move.

Title: Rain Dance (move)

This article is about the move Rain Dance. For the Field Move, see Field Move (Ranger). Rain Dance (Japanese: あまごい Rain Prayer) is a non-damaging Water-type move introduced in Generation II. TM18 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. When this move is used, a rainfall will start on the field which will last for five turns. This clears any other weather and it's possible to use it even if it is already raining. While Rain Dance is in effect, the base damage of Water-type moves will be increased by 50%, whereas the base damage of Solar Beam and Fire-type moves will be decreased by 50%. Additionally, Synthesis, Morning Sun, and Moonlight will recover only half as much HP as under clear conditions. Thunder ignores accuracy and evasion under the effect of Rain Dance. If a Damp Rock is held when Rain Dance is used, the duration of rainfall is lengthened from 5 to 8 turns. Rain Dance will fail if it's already raining. Hurricane ignores accuracy and evasion under the effect of Rain Dance. In Diamond and Pearl only, the move Thunder has a 30% chance of bypassing Protect and Detect under Rain Dance. A Pokémon with Rain Dish will restore 1/16 its maximum HP to itself after every turn, with Swift Swim will be twice as fast in the rain, with the Dry Skin Ability will regain ⅛ of their maximum HP at the end of each turn, and with Hydration will have their existing status conditions cured at the end of each turn. Moonlight, Synthesis and Morning Sun only restore ¼ of the user's maximum HP. Additionally, Pokémon with Forecast transform into the Water type and Weather Ball becomes a Water-type move. Rain Dance can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Bubble, BubbleBeam, Clamp, Crabhammer, Dive, Hydro Cannon, Hydro Pump, Muddy Water, Octazooka, Surf, Thunder, Water Gun, Water Pulse, Water Sport, Water Spout, Waterfall, Weather Ball, Whirlpool, and Withdraw to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Hurricane, Soak, Thunder, Water Sport and Weather Ball) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Rain called by Rain Dance does not allow Sliggoo to evolve into Goodra. If heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are present, Rain Dance will fail. If powered up by a Waterium Z into Z-Rain Dance, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Rain Dance can no longer override weather in the overworld. Rain Dance turns the current floor's weather to rain for 18 turns / entire floor / 66 turns. In TA14, Soro had Bronzong use Rain Dance, but only the second half of the move was shown. This move was Blastoise's Pokémon Power (as あまごい / Rain Prayer in Japanese and as Rain Dance in English) in the Base Set of the TCG prior to being introduced in Generation II of the games. In Generation II, Rain Dance was the only Water-type move that could be taught via TM. In Generation III, Rain Dance starts a Contest combination with 19 possible finishing moves, the most of any combination Prior to Generation VIII, Bronzong was the only Pokémon able to learn Rain Dance by leveling up that could not learn any moves or have any Abilities that benefited from rain. This may be related to its Pokédex entries, several of which mention Bronzong's natural power to summon rain clouds. With the addition of Weather Ball to its movepool in Generation VIII, this is no longer the case. The original Japanese name of this move is unrelated to dancing, therefore this is not a dance move. As such, Rain Dance is unaffected by Dancer, and Tierno does not request to see a Pokémon with this move in Pokémon X and Y. Even if it were a dance move, it would fail if called via Dancer, as Rain Dance fails if it's already raining. Rain Dance is based on amagoi, Shinto prayer and rituals for rain. Its English name comes from the fact that some of its varieties include dance rituals.

Title: Sunny Day (move)

Sunny Day (Japanese: にほんばれ Clear Sky) is a non-damaging Fire-type move introduced in Generation II. TM11 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. When this move is used, the sunlight will brighten the field. This effect will last for 5 turns, during which Pokémon cannot be frozen (though this does not affect when an already-frozen Pokémon thaws). This clears any other type of weather and is usable even when it's already sunny. While Sunny Day is in effect, the base power of Fire-type moves will be increased by 50%, and the base power of Water-type moves will be decreased by 50%. In addition to this, the moves Synthesis, Morning Sun, and Moonlight will recover twice as much HP as under clear conditions, Solar Beam will not require a turn to charge, and the accuracy of Thunder is lowered to 50%. Synthesis, Morning Sun, and Moonlight will now instead recover ⅔ of the user's HP in harsh sunlight. Additionally, Castform (due to its Ability, Forecast) and Weather Ball become Fire-type. If a Heat Rock is held when Sunny Day is used, the duration of sunlight lengthens from 5 to 8 turns. Additionally, the following Abilities will have the effects listed while the sun is shining: Pokémon with the Chlorophyll Ability will have their Speed doubled. Pokémon with the Dry Skin Ability will lose ⅛ of their maximum HP at the end of each turn. Pokémon with the Flower Gift Ability will raise the team's Attack and Special Defense by 50%. Cherrim will transform into its Sunshine Form, though this is not tied to Flower Gift itself in Generation IV. Pokémon with the Solar Power Ability will have their Special Attack raised by 50% and lose ⅛ of their HP each turn. Pokémon with the Leaf Guard Ability will be immune to being inflicted with non-volatile status conditions. Sunny Day can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Blast Burn, Blaze Kick, Ember, Eruption, Fire Blast, Fire Punch, Fire Spin, Flame Wheel, Flamethrower, Heat Wave, Moonlight, Morning Sun, Overheat, Sacred Fire, SolarBeam, Synthesis, Weather Ball, and Will-O-Wisp to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Growth now raises the user's Attack and Special Attack by two stages instead of just one. Hurricane's accuracy will be lowered, similarly to Thunder. Harvest will never fail to restore a Berry. If heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are present, Sunny Day will fail. While Sunny Day is in effect, Solar Blade will not require a turn to charge. Sunny Day can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Growth, Moonlight, Morning Sun, Solar Beam, Synthesis, and Weather Ball) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Firium Z into Z-Sunny Day, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Sunny Day can no longer override weather in the overworld. Sunny Day turns the current floor's weather to sunny for 18 turns / entire floor / 66 turns. Courtney's Ninetales was revealed to know Sunny Day on the official website, but she was never shown using the move. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, Morelull can learn Sunny Day via TM, but Shiinotic can't. This was fixed in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.

Title: Crunch (move)

Crunch (Japanese: かみくだく Crunch) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation II. Crunch does damage and has a 20% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense stat by one stage. Crunch can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Scary Face was used in the previous turn. Crunch is now a physical move and as a result now has a 20% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. Crunch's PP has been reduced to 10 and has a 20% chance of lowering the target's defensive stats. Crunch inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Defense by one stage (previously Sp. Defense in the Rescue Team series). This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon GO, Crunch is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of lowering the target's Defense. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents." In Trial on a Golden Scale!, Nito told his Krokorok and his henchmen's Zweilous and Eelektross to use Crunch, but they were all defeated by Danika's Urshifu before they could use the move. In Early-Evening Waves, Nessa's Drednaw was mentioned to know Crunch, but the move was used offscreen. In Pinsir Me, I Must Be Dreaming, a Mawile that Noland was renting from the Battle Factory was revealed to know Crunch by Emerald's Pokédex.

Title: Mirror Coat (move)

Mirror Coat (Japanese: ミラーコート Mirror Coat) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation II. If the last amount of damage done to the user before the use of Mirror Coat is greater than 0 and was dealt by a special move, Mirror Coat will do twice as much damage as taken by that attack to the opponent. If the opponent uses a physical move or does not attack at all, Mirror Coat fails. Dark-type Pokémon are immune to Mirror Coat, but otherwise, Mirror Coat's type has no effect on the damage done to the target. Mirror Coat is a decreased priority move. If the opponent does not use a decreased priority move during the round that it is used, Mirror Coat will go last regardless of the user's or opponent's speed. If the opponent also uses a decreased priority move during the same round, the attack order of the users will be determined normally. Mirror Coat will only consider the last strike of a multistrike move. It does not counter a move absorbed by a substitute. Mirror Coat cannot be activated by Hidden Power, regardless of its actual type and damage category. It also cannot be activated by Beat Up, despite Dark-type moves being special in Generations II and III. In Double Battles, Mirror Coat will hit the last opponent that dealt special damage to the attacker. Mirror Coat cannot affect allied Pokémon. Mirror Coat can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Taunt was used in the previous turn. Mirror Coat can no longer be copied by Mirror Move. As Hidden Power is a special move regardless of its actual type, it can now activate Mirror Coat. In Triple Battles, Mirror Coat can hit non-adjacent opponents provided a non-adjacent opponent was the last Pokémon to attack the user. Mirror Coat is effective against Psystrike, Psyshock and Secret Sword even though these moves use the target's Defense stat to calculate damage. If the Pokémon using Mirror Coat is hit by a special move that deals 0 damage, Mirror Coat becomes a special move with 1 base power. Mirror Coat can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Encore, Taunt or Torment was used in the prior turn. Mirror Coat gives the user the Mirror Coat status condition. With this status condition, the user will reflect any damage taken from special moves back to any adjacent opponents equal to the damage received. Oddly in Explorers of Time and Darkness, though moves are assigned as Physical or Special in game, Mirror Coat will return damage from damaging moves from types previously assigned as special prior to the Physical/Special split. The status lasts for 7-12 / 6 turns. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, Mirror Coat could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Mirror Coat could be seen as a move used by Boss Wobbuffet and Wynaut. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): ...The user will attack if hit by a special move while it is in this counterattacking posture, then the user leaves this posture. The more damage the user has taken from the opponent's move, the greater the power of this move. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): ...The more damage the user has taken, the greater the power of this move. This move's power scales based on how much HP the user loses while in their counterattacking posture. The more HP lost, the higher this move's power multiplier. The power multiplier resets when the user leaves this posture. Here is a table showing the specifics of this move: In Mixing It Up with Magcargo, Mirror Coat was used by an unknown Pokémon belonging to Team Aqua. In Generations II and III, this move cannot reflect Hidden Power, regardless of its type. This is because Hidden Power was always determined by the game to be Normal-type, so even if it was a Special type, like Ice or Grass, Mirror Coat would always fail against Hidden Power, while Counter would always reflect it.

Title: Psych Up (move)

Psych Up (Japanese: じこあんじ Self-suggest) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. It is: TM77 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Psych Up resets the user's stat changes and copies all of the target's stat stages onto the user (Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed, accuracy, and evasion). Psych Up will fail if all of the target's stat stages are 0. Psych Up bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It is not affected by Protect or Detect. Psych Up no longer fails if all of the target's stat stages are 0. Psych Up can be stolen by Snatch, in which case Psych Up will be targeted at the (most recent) Pokémon it was stolen from. Psych Up now also copies the target's critical hit ratio. (e.g. If the target has the effect of Focus Energy, the user also gains that effect; if the user has the effect of Focus Energy but the target does not, the user loses that effect.) Psych Up is not affected by Spiky Shield or Baneful Bunker, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Psych Up, the user regains all of its HP. Psych Up targets the Pokémon in front, ally or enemy, and copies their Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, evasion, and accuracy stat changes (including the unique stat multipliers from Charm, Aurora Beam, Memento and Screech prior to Gates to Infinity).

Title: Extreme Speed (move)

Extreme Speed (Japanese: しんそく Extreme Speed), formatted as ExtremeSpeed prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation II. ExtremeSpeed inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Like all other moves that previously possessed priority, Extreme Speed causes the user to dash forward to make damaging contact with the target (although terrain may interfere with doing so). During the dash, the user is intangible and will ignore projectiles and entry hazards that they pass through. Lucario uses Extreme Speed as its up special. When activated, Lucario performs a quick dash. Moving in different directions alters which directions Lucario will move. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, this move did no damage and moved at a set distance. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, in addition to doing damage, as Lucario builds up more aura, the move travels farther and does more damage. In Pokémon UNITE, Extreme Speed is Dragonite's and Lucario's first move. Dragonite can obtain the move by evolving into Dragonair at level 5 and upgrading Twister into it instead of Dragon Dance. The user dashes toward the designated enemy, damaging and slowing all enemies in a small radius around the target upon impact, throwing the primary target and shoving others away. Using this move resets the cooldown of Multiscale. At level 11, this move also negates any movement speed decrease the user may have before the move is used. Lucario can obtain the move by reaching level 5 and upgrading Quick Attack into it instead of Power-Up Punch. The user dashes forward, damaging all enemies hit and healing the user for each enemy hit. The first enemy hit will reset the cooldown of Extreme Speed. This effect cannot occur on the same target more than once every 10 seconds. Attacking immediately after the dash will perform a unique attack in an area dealing 75% Atk and can critically hit. At level 11, the move increases the user's Attack by 15% for a short period of time after use. Extreme Speed's in-game descriptions erroneously state that it goes before any other move. This trait is shared with Baby-Doll Eyes, Bullet Punch, Ice Shard, Mach Punch, Quick Attack, Shadow Sneak, Vacuum Wave, and Water Shuriken. Although it is a Normal-type move, only one Normal-type Pokémon can learn this move by leveling up, not counting Togekiss which was Normal-type prior to Generation VI.

Title: Ancient Power (move)

Ancient Power (Japanese: げんしのちから Primeval Power), formatted as AncientPower prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation II. It is TM120 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Ancient Power inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of raising the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. Ancient Power makes contact only in Generation III. Ancient Power PP is now increased from 5 to 15. May raise the user's offensive and defensive stats. From Generation IV onward, three Pokémon can evolve when they level up knowing Ancient Power: Tangela into Tangrowth, Piloswine into Mamoswine, and Yanma into Yanmega. Ancient Power inflicts damage, and has a small chance to raise user's Attack, Defense, Sp. Attack, Sp. Defense and Travel Speed by one stage. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Ancient Power has base 20 PP and hits nearby enemies in a 1 tile range around the user. Secondary effect: 2 Attack and Defense → 1 Attack and Defense •Description of additional effect(s) prior to Version 2.10.0 (released on June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of raising the user's Attack, Defense, Speed, Sp. Atk, and Sp. Def, and Speed. Ancient Power is learned by every Fossil Pokémon and a large number of Legendary Pokémon. Ancient Power triggers the most Evolutions out of any Evolution-inducing move, at three. Ancient Power is the only move with the additional effect of raising all stats that wasn't removed in Generation VIII, possibly due to it being an Evolution requirement. Piloswine, which evolves into Mamoswine when leveled up knowing this move, has been able to learn it by breeding since the move's introduction in Generation II.

Title: Shadow Ball (move)

Shadow Ball (Japanese: シャドーボール Shadow Ball) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation II. TM30 from Generation II to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM43 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Shadow Ball deals damage and has a 20% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage, even in Generations II and III where it was a physical move. Pokémon with Bulletproof are unaffected by Shadow Ball. Shadow Ball's PP has been reduced to 10, and it has a 20% chance of lowering the target's defensive stats. Shadow Ball inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Special Defense by one stage. Erroneously, in Japanese version of Explorers of Time and Darkness, this move instead affected the target's Defense. Shadow Ball is Mewtwo's standard special move. It is chargeable and moves in a zigzag fashion. Mewtwo holds its hands the same way it does in Mewtwo Strikes Back when forming a Shadow Ball, but the ball itself has a unique design. The blue color of the ball resembles how it looks in Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, while Mewtwo charges, any enemy that touches the charging Shadow Ball gets damaged. This was changed in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, where it no longer can damage opponents while charging. Mewtwo also uses Shadow Ball on its opponents when throwing them forwards. Lucario, who debuted in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, uses Aura Sphere, which functions similarly. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. Unlike some sync moves, this attack could not be raised to 6★ EX since its release date (of March 19, 2020) until 1011 days later (on December 25, 2022). In Pokémon UNITE, Shadow Ball is Gengar's and Hoopa's first move. Gengar can obtain the move by reaching level 7 as Haunter and upgrading Will-O-Wisp into it instead of Sludge Bomb. The user hurls a shadowy ball forward in a line – damaging, slowing, and reducing the Special Defense of enemies hit. This ball pierces through wild Pokémon. At level 13, its damage increases. Hoopa can obtain the move by upgrading Astonish at level 6 into it instead of Phantom Force. The move has the user unleash a shadowy blob in front of itself, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon it hits and decreasing their movement speed and Sp. Def for a short time. If the user then hits the same opposing Pokémon with a move or boosted attack within a set amount of time, it deals additional damage to the opposing Pokémon and leaves them unable to act for a short time. When using this move, if there is a nearby ally Pokémon linked by Trick, this move will also unleash a shadowy blob at the same target from that ally’s location. At level 12, the shadowy blob will now explode before it disappears. Opposing Pokémon hit by the explosion are affected as if they were hit by the shadowy blob itself. In Unbound form, this move is replaced by Hyperspace Fury. In Cunning Kirlia, Ruby's Kirlia, Rara, was revealed to know Shadow Ball when she used Imprison to prevent Emerald's Dusclops from using the move against her. Bruno's Hitmonlee was revealed to know Shadow Ball on the official website, but it has never been shown using the move. Moreover, Hitmonlee is unable to learn Shadow Ball. Due to Shadow Ball being a physical move prior to Generation IV, Shadow Ball is the only damaging move to have ever dealt damage in a different category from the target's defensive stat it lowers, excluding Max Moves. Shadow Ball was introduced in the animated series prior to the games. In Pokémon Colosseum, in Mt. Battle Area 10 in Battle Mode Singles as well as in Battle Now, Cooltrainer Cruik's Muk knows Shadow Ball, although Muk cannot learn this move until Generation IV. In Generation III and Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Shadow Ball was the only Ghost-type move that could be taught via TM. In Generation VIII, Shadow Ball is the only Ghost-type move that can be taught via TR. Shadow Ball is the only Ghost-type move to change damage categories in the transition from Generation III to Generation IV. While Night Shade also became a special attack, it is a fixed damage attack and is therefore not affected by the change in damage category.

Title: Future Sight (move)

Future Sight (Japanese: みらいよち Future Sight) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation II. On the turn Future Sight is selected, this attack will do nothing other than say that the user has foreseen an attack. Two turns later, Future Sight will do damage against the target (this happens after both Pokémon have attacked). The damage dealt uses the Special Attack stat of the user and Special Defense stat of the target at the time of move selection (not at the time the attack actually hits; if the target is switched out, the attack will hit its replacement but the damage is based on the original target Pokémon). Damage dealt by Future Sight does not have a type; it is not affected by type effectiveness (so it can hit Dark-type Pokémon), does not receive STAB, and can hit Pokémon with Wonder Guard. Future Sight cannot land a critical hit and its damage is not increased by Life Orb. Future Sight is not affected by protection moves or Endure. A Pokémon holding a Focus Band or Focus Sash can survive Future Sight. Future Sight fails when used if the target is already set to be hit by Future Sight or Doom Desire. Future Sight can hit the Pokémon that used the move. If Future Sight misses, the miss will not occur until the third turn, and the game will display that the move "failed" rather than "missed". In Double Battles, if the intended target has already fainted by the time the attack is foreseen such that there is no target, Future Sight will redirect the same as other moves do (e.g., target the other opponent instead). If there is no target at the targeted slot by the time the attack is due, Future Sight will fail without further notice. Future Sight has a base power of 80 and an accuracy of 90. In Pokémon Stadium 2, if both players only have one Pokémon left, and both are KO'ed by Future Sight, then the battle is declared a Draw. Future Sight can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind, Confusion, Kinesis, or Psychic was used in the previous turn. Future Sight's power is increased from 80 to 100, its accuracy from 90% to 100%, and its PP is reduced from 15 to 10. Future Sight now calculates its damage when it hits rather than when it is selected. Future Sight uses the user's Special Attack and the hit Pokémon's Special Defense at the time damage is dealt. It now inflicts damage as a Psychic-type move; therefore, it is affected by type effectiveness (so cannot affect Dark-type Pokémon), can receive STAB, and will not necessarily hit through Wonder Guard. If the user is on the field and has Normalize or was affected by Electrify when Future Sight hits, it hits as a Normal- or Electric-type move respectively (regardless of whether this was the case when the move was used); however, it cannot be redirected by Lightning Rod even if it is an Electric-type move. Future Sight can now land a critical hit. If the user is not on the field when Future Sight hits, its Ability and held item are not applied. In battles with multiple opponents, Future Sight may now target a slot without an active Pokémon. (If a Pokémon occupies the selected slot by the time the attack is due, Future Sight will attack as intended.) If there is no target at the targeted slot by the time the attack is due, Future Sight will still fail without further notice. A Pokémon can now endure Future Sight with Endure or Sturdy, in addition to the Focus Sash and Focus Band. Future Sight disappears with no message if it would hit the Pokémon that used the move. Future Sight's power was increased again from 100 to 120. In Contests, the move increases from two appeal to six appeal if the move used by the previous Pokémon that round was also a Psychic-type move. This bonus cannot trigger if used first in the round, even if the move used by the last round's last Pokémon was a Psychic-type move. Future Sight acts as a time-delayed version of Rock Slide; on usage, an area centered on the target's position visibly glows and then vanishes. After a few seconds, damaging projectiles rain down on the area. Future Sight can hit multiple enemies in a single usage, but will not deal extra damage if a target is struck more than once. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Future Sight is a status move which gives the user the Set Damage status condition for 3-4 turns. This status causes all of user's attacks to deal 35 / 30 damage, regardless of other multipliers. From Gates to Infinity, Future Sight is a damage-dealing move, which gives the user the Future Sight status condition which lets the user charge the move for one turn. The user then unleashes the move on the next turn. In Pokémon GO, Future Sight is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Future Sight is Espeon's and Gardevoir's second move. Espeon can obtain the move by reaching level 6 and upgrading Growl into it instead of Psybeam. The user locks on to an enemy, then deals damage a short time later to enemies in an area of effect centered on the locked-on target. More damage is dealt the lower the locked-on target's remaining HP is. While the user is locked onto a target, all other moves will target that enemy whenever possible. Each time one of these moves deals damage, Future Sight's cooldown is reduced. If the locked-on enemy is on the opposing team and is knocked out before the area-of-effect damage is dealt, a single powered-up use of Psyshock or Stored Power becomes available for a short time. When Psyshock is powered up, it hurls stronger psychic projectiles at a designated location that also cause an explosion, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect. When Stored Power is powered up, it unleashes an increased number of psychic blasts and restores the user's HP when the blasts hit. At level 12, the user deals 10% more damage to the target that Future Sight is locked onto. Gardevoir can obtain the move by evolving into Kirlia at level 5 and upgrading Teleport into it instead of Psyshock. The user creates a delayed explosion at the targeted area, damaging enemies. If Future Sight hits an enemy, its cooldown is reduced. At level 11, cooldown is reset on successful hits.

Title: Rock Smash (move)

If you were looking for the skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Rock Break. Rock Smash (Japanese: いわくだき Rock Smash) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation II. TM98 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. The move inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. In certain games, Rock Smash requires a specific badge to use outside of battle; the Marsh Badge, Zephyr Badge, Dynamo Badge, or Coal Badge. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks to clear a path. Occasionally, breaking a rock will cause a wild Pokémon to be encountered. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks, but no wild Pokémon will appear. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks, and wild Pokémon or items can be found. Items that can be found include Heart Scales, shards, and Fossils. In Black 2 and White 2, if a Pokémon in the player's party knows the move Rock Smash when they talk to one of the Workers in Clay Tunnel, they can help clear a section of boulders. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks and certain cracked walls. Wild Pokémon and items can be found when breaking rocks (but not cracked walls). Rock Smash can no longer be used outside of battle. Rock Smash is a field move in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, usable via the Pokétch's Hidden Moves app, which summons a wild Bidoof to use the move. Rock Smash can no longer be used outside of battle. In Pokémon Emerald, using Rock Smash in the Desert Ruins grants access to a chamber where the player finds Regirock. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Rock Smash is a non-damaging move which turns a wall tile in front of the user into a floor tile, even if there is a Pokémon inside it. It is incapable of destroying walls used for locked chambers as well as those at the edge of a floor, nor can it be used diagonally. The move was unaffected by Taunt prior to the Explorers series. From Gates to Infinity onwards, Rock Smash is now a damaging move that may lower target's Defense. It retains its ability to remove wall tiles in Super Mystery Dungeon. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Rock Smash is Charizard's Side Special move. Unlike in the Pokémon games, Charizard will create a boulder and crush it with its head, producing multiple fragments of debris that fly off for extra damage. Rock Smash has high damage and knockback and can potentially KO a foe at low damage. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Rock Smash has been made Charizard's Down Special move, with Flare Blitz taking its former position. It was weakened greatly, but now also grants armor to protect Charizard from incoming attacks. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Rock Smash was removed from Charizard's moveset in favor of Pokémon Change, as Charizard has been reincorporated back into the Pokémon Trainer character. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a good chance of lowering the target's Defense. In Pokémon Pokopia, Rock Smash is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Hitmonchan in Withered Wasteland. It allows Ditto to break objects in front of itself. Rock Smash can be temporarily powered up by consuming any type of hamburger, allowing Ditto to break even harder substances. Carl's Piloswine was revealed to know Rock Smash on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. Rock Smash is the only move to start as a TM, become an HM, revert to being a TM again, and then revert to an HM. Rock Smash and Rock Climb are the only moves to have the word rock in their name and not be Rock-type. Coincidentally, both have been HM moves at some point. In the Generation V games, Rock Smash uses the Rock-type TM icon instead of the correct Fighting-type icon. Although Rock Smash is described as a "punch", it does not have its power increased by Iron Fist.

Title: Whirlpool (move)

Whirlpool (Japanese: うずしお Whirl Tide) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation II. It is: Whirlpool inflicts damage and then traps the target for a number of turns, inflicting damage at the end of each turn as well, as seen in the table below. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the trapping damage increases. If the user is holding a Grip Claw, the number of turns is affected. The trapped Pokémon is also prevented from being switched or escaping the battle. Whirlpool can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dive, dealing twice the damage in all generations except in Generation IV, where the move's power is doubled instead (resulting in virtually the same effect). This increase in damage or power only applies to the move when used, not to the trapping damage. A trapped Pokémon holding a Shed Shell can be switched out. A trapped Pokémon with Run Away or holding a Smoke Ball (except in Generation II) can escape from a battle against a wild Pokémon, but cannot be switched out. A trapped Pokémon will be freed if it uses Rapid Spin or if the Whirlpool user switches out. When this move traps the target, this text appears: "<Pokémon> was trapped!" When this move traps the target, this text now appears: "<Pokémon> was trapped in the vortex!" Whirlpool can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Ghost-type Pokémon cannot be trapped by Whirlpool. This move is usable either from the party or simply by pressing A when facing a whirlpool. In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal, HeartGold, and SoulSilver, the Glacier Badge is required to use Whirlpool outside of battle. Whirlpool clears whirlpools in the field while surfing. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, Whirlpool allows the user to cross whirlpools on the field, instead of clearing them away as it did in Generation II. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Whirlpool deals damage and may inflict the Constriction status condition on the enemy (10% chance). This renders the enemy unable to move (though it may attack) and lose 5 HP every two turns. This status lasts for 4-6 turns. From Super Mystery Dungeon onwards, the move instead may inflict the Whirlpool status condition for 6 turns, which renders the enemy unable to move (though it may attack) and lose 3 HP every two turns. In all series, Whirlpool can hit a Pokémon in middle of Dive for double damage. In Pokémon UNITE, Whirlpool is Azumarill's and Cramorant's first move. Azumarill can obtain the move by evolving from Marill at level 5 and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Aqua Tail. The move causes four small whirlpools appear that swirl around the user to appear for a short time as it moves. If a whirlpool hits an opposing Pokémon, the whirlpool deals damage to it and restores the user’s HP. If a whirlpool hits a Pokémon on the opposing team, an increased amount of HP is restored to the user. At level 11, the move’s cooldown is decreased and the amount of HP it restores to the user is increased. Cramorant starts with the move. The user creates a whirlpool at a designated location, damaging all enemies in the radius. It also slows enemies by 50% in the area at the end of its duration. The user can enter the whirlpool to catch prey for Gulp Missile (up to 2 prey). At level 6, this move is replaced by either Surf or Dive. Although it is the first of three moves to lose HM status, it is also the first former HM to regain that status. This makes it the first HM move teachable by two separate HMs: HM06 in Generation II, and HM05 in HeartGold and SoulSilver. If a player teaches a Pokémon Whirlpool by HM in HeartGold and SoulSilver and trades it to Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum, the Pokémon can be freely imported to Black and White via the Poké Transfer, due to Whirlpool not being needed outside of battle in Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. The same can be done with Defog by transferring a Pokémon that learned it by HM in Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum to HeartGold or SoulSilver. The Latin Spanish name of Whirlpool (Remolino) is the European Spanish name for Whirlwind, and vice versa (Torbellino is Whirlpool in European Spanish and Whirlwind in Latin Spanish).

Title: Beat Up (move)

If you were looking for the Pokémon Trading Card Game deck archetypes, see Beat Up (TCG). Beat Up (Japanese: ふくろだたき Gang Up) is a damage-dealing Dark-type multistrike move introduced in Generation II. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Sneasel, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It was TM37 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Beat Up inflicts damage on the target from the user and from each conscious Pokémon in the user's party that does not have a non-volatile status. Each strike is typeless and has a base power of 10; damage is determined using each attacking Pokémon's base Attack and level and the target's base Defense. Beat Up ignores changes to stat levels such as Swords Dance. Same-type attack bonus is not considered when calculating damage. Each strike is preceded with the message "<name>'s Attack!", where <name> is the name of the Pokémon in the player's party. Each strike has an independent chance of being a critical hit. King's Rock has its chance of activation based on the last strike alone. Despite Dark-type moves being special prior to Generation IV, Beat Up activates Counter but not Mirror Coat. If a Pokémon uses Beat Up on its partner in a Double Battle, the partner will attack itself (unless it suffers from a status ailment). If Beat Up activates a target's Focus Sash, no subsequent hits can knock it out. Beat Up ignores Wonder Guard, as it is considered a typeless attack. The Sniper Ability does not affect critical hits. Each strike now has an independent chance of activating a King's Rock or Razor Fang. Beat Up cannot receive boost from Technician. Instead of using each party member's Attack stat, the user's Attack alone is used to calculate the damage of each strike. Because of this, Beat Up is now affected by boosts like from Swords Dance and Attack-boosting items like Choice Band. Furthermore, the base power per strike is no longer 10, but instead individually based on the Attack base stats of the party Pokémon: Beat Up now receives STAB from Dark-type users, no longer dealing typeless damage, and is affected by Technician. Beat Up no longer lists the individual attackers' names. Each strike will activate Justified, Weak Armor and Stamina. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. Each strike has an independent chance of activating Stench, but this does not stack with the Razor Fang or King's Rock. Beat Up is a status move which warps all teammates on the floor to the user. In games prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, teammates are placed up to 2 tiles away from the user. Beat Up only works on teammates and will not affect clients visiting the player's team. The move will fail to warp a Pokémon if there is not enough space within the given area; the move considers only land tiles (even if the Pokémon can travel through non-standard tiles). From Super Mystery Dungeon, the move targets an enemy in front, and will warp all teammates on the floor to surround the target. The user damages all Pokémon directly in front of it. Beat Up will hit once for each team member, including the user. Beat Up is the last Generation II move in index number order. Beat Up is the only move whose base power is determined by base stats.

Title: Fake Out (move)

Fake Out (Japanese: ねこだまし Slap Hands) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM141 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Fake Out inflicts damage and always makes the target flinch, unless it has the Ability Inner Focus or Shield Dust. It has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Fake Out will fail if not used on the first turn the user is out. In wild battles, it won't fail if the player's Pokémon tries to escape, but fails to do so due to the Speed difference. Fake Out does not make contact. Fake Out can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Arm Thrust, Faint Attack, Knock Off, Seismic Toss, and Vital Throw to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Fake Out now has +3 priority. In a Rotation Battle, Fake Out can be used on the first turn the Pokémon is rotated in—being out of its Poké Ball but currently rotated out does not affect a Pokémon's ability to use Fake Out. Fake Out will fail if called by Instruct, even if it is the first turn the user is on the field. When used on a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon successfully, Fake Out deals damage but will not make the target flinch. A Pokémon holding a Covert Cloak cannot be made to flinch by Fake Out, as the item blocks the secondary effects of moves, which, in the case of Fake Out, is flinching. Fake Out inflicts damage and may flinch the enemy. In Pokémon UNITE, Fake Out is Mr. Mime's first starting move. The user claps; damaging, knocking back, and stunning enemies in a cone for .4s. At level 4, this move is replaced by either Confusion or Psychic. In Noibat Stands in the Way, Shauna told her Skitty, Neko, to use Fake Out, but it was unable to hear her and did not perform the move. This move is the first Generation III move in index number order. The move's Japanese name, ねこだまし Nekodamashi (Slap Hands), refers to a sumo technique where a sumo wrestler, at the start of the bout, claps their hands in front of the opponent's face, causing the opponent to close their eyes. Its wide distribution among catlike Pokémon is likely a play on this name, as it literally translates to fool the cat. Fake Out is tied with Upper Hand for the highest priority of all damage-dealing moves, excluding Pursuit used against a target being switched out and an HP-draining move used by a Pokémon with Triage. Excluding Fling with a King's Rock or Razor Fang, Fake Out and Upper Hand are the only moves with a 100% chance of causing the target to flinch.

Title: Uproar (move)

Uproar (Japanese: さわぐ Clamor) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TR35 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM191 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Uproar deals damage and causes the user to make an uproar for several turns. While making an uproar, the Pokémon automatically uses the move Uproar each turn. PP is only deducted on the first turn Uproar is used. While any Pokémon is making an uproar, Pokémon cannot fall asleep (with some exceptions, depending on the game). Uproar has a base power of 50. Uproar causes the user to make an uproar for 2-5 turns. Pokémon that do not have Soundproof cannot fall asleep due to moves that can inflict sleep (including Rest, which fails if the user does not have Soundproof), Effect Spore, and disobedience; or become drowsy due to Yawn. However, a Pokémon that is already drowsy due to Yawn can fall asleep during an uproar (regardless of whether it has Soundproof). If a sleeping Pokémon that does not have Soundproof would make a move, it is woken up immediately before using its move. At the end of each turn (including the turn the user calms down), any sleeping Pokémon on the field that do not have Soundproof are woken up. Even if the user of Uproar has the Ability Mold Breaker, Pokémon with Soundproof are unaffected by a Pokémon that is making an uproar. The Pokémon will not start an uproar if Uproar fails to be executed completely, such as if it is used against a Ghost-type Pokémon (which would be immune to Uproar), a protected Pokémon, or a Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof; however, once it is making an uproar, it will continue even if it fails in such cases. In battles with multiple opponents, the user selects itself as the target, but hits an adjacent opponent that is selected at random upon each use of the move. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Uproar's base power changed from 50 to 90. Uproar now causes the user to make an uproar for exactly 3 turns. When Uproar is initially used (i.e. when the user is not already making an uproar), any sleeping Pokémon on the field are woken up (even if they have the Ability Soundproof or are not adjacent to the user). This is now the only time Uproar wakes up Pokémon that are already asleep. While a Pokémon is making an uproar, Pokémon cannot fall asleep (even if they have Soundproof or are not adjacent to the Pokémon making the uproar). Pokémon can be made drowsy by Yawn, but a drowsy Pokémon cannot fall asleep during an uproar (even if it has Soundproof). If Uproar fails to be executed completely on any turn—such as if it is used against a Ghost-type Pokémon, a protected Pokémon, or a Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof—the user immediately calms down and is no longer forced to use Uproar. Uproar can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. If the user is affected by Throat Chop, it will immediately calm down at the end of the turn. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Uproar is a status move which targets all team members in the same room and gives them the Sleepless status condition for the rest of floor. This status prevents them from falling asleep (and wakes up any already asleep team members). Uproar is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Although it's a sound-based move in the main series, it can affect Pokémon with Soundproof. From Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity onwards, Uproar inflicts damage to all enemies in the same room. It also gives the Sleepless status condition to all Pokémon in the room (including teammates). Ghost-type Pokémon will not become Sleepless unless the immunity is bypassed. Uproar will also not affect Pokémon with the Ability Soundproof. In Gates to Infinity, Uproar will not grant Sleepless if no enemies are targeted. The official Pokémon Adventures website mentions that Wanda's Loudred knows Uproar, but it has never been shown using the move. Uproar displays an animation during the end-of-turn message in Pokémon Battle Revolution.

Title: Stockpile (move)

Stockpile (Japanese: たくわえる Stockpile) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. The Pokémon who are able to learn this move are also able to learn the related moves Spit Up and Swallow; except Snorlax, Munchlax, Trubbish, Garbodor, and Guzzlord, which cannot learn Spit Up, and Qwilfish, Dewpider, and Overqwil, which cannot learn Swallow. Usually, when a Pokémon tries to learn Stockpile through leveling up, it will also attempt to learn Spit Up and/or Swallow immediately after. Stockpile stores up energy for the user and has no secondary effect. The maximum number of stockpiles the user can hold is three. If used after the third count, it will fail. The moves Spit Up and Swallow inflict damage and heal the user based on the number of stockpiles, respectively, but also reset the stockpile count. Both moves fail if the stockpile count is zero. Stockpile can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Spit Up and Swallow to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. In addition to its previous effects, Stockpile gains a secondary effect of raising the user's Defense stat and Special Defense stat by one stage each after stockpiling. Once the user has used Spit Up or Swallow, the increases in Defense and Special Defense gained this way are lost. Stockpile can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Spit Up and Swallow to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Stockpile, the user regains all of its HP. Stockpile causes the user to gain the Stockpiling status condition. With this, the user stores energy (up to 3 times), which affects Spit Up and Swallow. This move is affected by Snatch and the Muzzled status condition. From the Explorers series, the move now increases the user's Defense and Special Defense by one stage for each successful Stockpile, reflecting the change present in the main series games. These Defense and Special Defense boosts will be retained when Spit Up or Swallow are used, however, and can be increased further. Sygna Suit Giovanni (Alt.) & Guzzlord's passive skill Giovanni's Greed makes this move raise the Defense and Sp. Def of all allied sync pairs by three stat ranks each time it is used. In Pokémon Pokopia, Stockpile is a move that Ditto can use naturally. It allows Ditto to swallow items that are otherwise too large or heavy and store them in its bag. Stockpile directly interacts with Spit Out. In Pokémon Pokopia, Ditto can naturally use Stockpile while in its human form, even though it has never been capable of learning this move.

Title: Spit Up (move)

Spit Up (Japanese: はきだす Spit Up) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. The Pokémon who are able to learn this move are also able to learn the related moves Stockpile and Swallow, except Qwilfish, Dewpider, and Overqwil, which cannot learn Swallow. This move will fail if the user has not used Stockpile. If Spit Up is used after stockpiling, Spit Up inflicts damage to the target and has no secondary effect. Its power is 100, and its damage is multiplied by the number of times Stockpile was used. After Spit Up is used (even if the opponent protects itself from Spit Up), the stockpile count will be reset to 0. Spit Up cannot cause a critical hit, and its damage is not varied by a random factor during damage calculation. Spit Up can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Stockpile was used in the previous turn. Its power is now equal to 100 times the number of times Stockpile was used instead of multiplying damage. Now that Stockpile increases the user's Defense and Special Defense, Spit Up now removes any Defense and Special Defense boosts gained through Stockpile. However, it simply will say the effect wore off without showing the stats changing, unlike Stockpile. Spit Up can now cause a critical hit, but its damage is still not varied by a random factor during damage calculation. The Stockpile removal is now shown as a stat change. For each Stockpile that successfully changed a defensive stat, that stat will drop by two stages if the Pokémon has Simple at the time of using Spit Up, rise by one stage if the Pokémon has Contrary at that time, or drop by one stage with any other Ability. Stockpiles that did not result in stat changes (most likely because the stat was already maxed out) are not taken into account for this adjustment, but Stockpiles that resulted in stat changes which were later erased by a move such as Haze or Clear Smog are. Damage done by Spit Up is now varied by a random factor during damage calculation. Spit Up can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving an extra three appeal points if Stockpile was used in the prior turn. Spit Up deals damage. The move's power is multiplied by the amount of Stockpile stocks. The stockpiled stats are used up afterwards. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon Pokopia, Spit Out is a move that Ditto can use naturally. It appears to be based on Spit Up, given it directly interacts with Stockpile. It allows Ditto spit out items that it had previously stored in its bag with Stockpile. After using Stockpile three times, Spit Up has the highest base power of all Normal-type moves, surpassing even Explosion. Due to a glitch in Generation IV, when a Pokémon performs the Spit Up animation, its sprite is translated right by two pixels.

Title: Swallow (move)

Swallow (Japanese: のみこむ Swallow) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. The Pokémon who are able to learn this move are also able to learn the related moves Stockpile and Spit Up, except Snorlax, Munchlax, Trubbish, Garbodor, and Guzzlord, which cannot learn Spit Up. This move will fail if the user has not used Stockpile. If Swallow is used after stockpiling, it recovers the user's HP depending on the number of times Stockpile was used: After Swallow is used, the stockpile count will be reset to 0. Swallow can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Stockpile was used in the previous turn. Swallow now removes any Defense and Special Defense boosts gained through Stockpile. However, it simply will say the effect wore off without showing stat changing, unlike Stockpile. The Stockpile removal is now shown as a stat change. For each Stockpile that successfully changed a defensive stat, that stat will drop by two stages if the Pokémon has Simple at the time of using Swallow, rise by one stage if the Pokémon has Contrary at that time, or drop by one stage with any other Ability. Stockpiles that did not result in stat changes (most likely because the stat was already maxed out) are not taken into account for this adjustment, but Stockpiles that resulted in stat changes which were later erased by a move such as Haze or Clear Smog are. Swallow can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving an extra three appeal points if Stockpile was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Swallow, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Swallow restores the user's HP depending on the number of Stockpile boosts. The Stockpile boosts are reset to 0 after using this move. It is affected by Snatch. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Swallow restores 20 HP after one Stockpile, 40 HP after two Stockpile boosts, and 80 HP after three Stockpile boosts. From Gates to Infinity, Swallow restores 25% of the user's max HP after one Stockpile, 50% after two Stockpile boosts, and 75% after three Stockpile boosts. Red's Victreebel was revealed to know Swallow on the official website, but it was never shown using the move.

Title: Heat Wave (move)

Heat Wave (Japanese: ねっぷう Hot Wind) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation III. Heat Wave inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of burning the target. Heat Wave hits all opposing Pokémon in Double Battles. In a Triple Battle, Heat Wave will only hit opposing adjacent Pokémon. Heat Wave can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Heat Wave will also destroy round rocks found in the background of battles. Heat Wave inflicts damage to all enemies in the room, and may leave them with a burn. Sygna Suit Red & Charizard and Blue (Classic) & Charizard's use of this move never misses due to their passive skills Piercing Gaze and Kanto Journey Legacy, respectively. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. Heat Wave's association with the Flying type, as evident from the many Flying-type Pokémon capable of learning the move, is more apparent in the Japanese versions, where it is known as 「ねっぷう」 Hot Wind. Prior to Generation VI, this move and Ominous Wind had the same in-game animation, the only difference being the color. Similarly, in Generation III its animation was very similar to Sandstorm's, the differences being the color and the effect on the targets' sprites. The internal coding for Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire shows Heat Wave would have been usable as a combo attack in Double Battles by using Gust and Ember in the same turn. This feature was removed sometime during development.

Title: Hail (move)

Hail (Japanese: あられ Hail) is a non-damaging Ice-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM07 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. It was TM35 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. When Hail is used, a hailstorm will begin on the field. This effect will last for 5 turns. This clears any other type of weather. While Hail is in effect, all Pokémon not of the Ice type will be damaged for 1⁄16 of their maximum HP at the end of each turn. Synthesis, Morning Sun, and Moonlight will recover only ¼ of the user's maximum HP. Additionally, Castform and the move Weather Ball become Ice-type. Hail can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Blizzard, Powder Snow, and Weather Ball to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Blizzard will now hit during Hail regardless of target's evasion and user's accuracy. In Diamond and Pearl only, it can strike through Protect and Detect with 30% accuracy. Pokémon with the Ice Body Ability recover 1⁄16 of their maximum HP each round. Pokémon with the Snow Cloak Ability increase their evasiveness by 20%. Pokémon with the Slush Rush Ability have their Speed doubled. If an Icy Rock is held by the Pokémon using Hail at the time of use, the duration of Hail will increase from 5 to 8 turns. If heavy rain, extremely harsh sunlight, or strong winds are present, Hail will fail. Hail can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Blizzard, Glaciate, Icicle Crash, Icy Wind, Powder Snow and Weather Ball) to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by an Icium Z into Z-Hail, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Hail cannot be selected in a battle, and is instead functionally replaced by the move Snowscape (creating a snowstorm). Hail turns the current floor's weather to hail for 18 turns / entire floor / 66 turns.

Title: Torment (move)

Torment (Japanese: いちゃもん Falsely Accuse) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM41 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and TM121 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Torment prevents the target from using the same move twice in a row. The effect lasts until the target is switched out. If a Pokémon has selected the move it used last turn and becomes affected with Torment, it may still use the move this turn (even if it moves after the user of Torment). If the target can only use one move (e.g. is holding a Choice item, only has one move with PP, is under the effect of Encore, etc.), the target will be forced to use Struggle every second round. Struggle is not affected by Torment; if a Pokémon has run out of PP for all of its moves, it can continue to use Struggle. Moves such as Rollout will still be fully executed under the effects of Torment. Torment does not work on Pokémon under the protection of Aroma Veil. Torment does not prevent the target from repeating its most recent move via Instruct. In Pokémon Emerald, if the target hits itself in Confusion, Torment has no effect on which move it can select next. In Generation IV, due to an oversight, if a tormented Pokémon has used Rage and then selects a different move, it will be freed from the torment, but its rage will still be building. Pokémon that know Torment are banned from participating in films at Pokéstar Studios. Torment can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Counter, Destiny Bond, Grudge, King's Shield, Metal Burst, Mirror Coat and Spite) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. A Pokémon affected by Torment can upgrade a status move into a Z-Move even if it used that move during the previous turn. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Torment, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Torment will fail if used on a Dynamax Pokémon, and a Pokémon under the effect of Torment can remove it by Dynamaxing. Torment seals the target's last used move, preventing the sealed move from being used. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Prior to Gates to Infinity, a sealed move is not considered a status condition, however could still be cured by status-curing moves such as Refresh. From Gates to Infinity, sealing is now considered a status condition. This move is the only variation of Disable that does not end after a certain number of turns, instead ending only when the affected Pokémon is switched out.

Title: Flatter (move)

Flatter (Japanese: おだてる Flatter) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. It is similar to Swagger. Flatter raises the target's Special Attack stat by one stage and confuses it. Even if the target is already confused, or cannot become confused due to Safeguard or Own Tempo, its Special Attack will still be raised. Even if the target's Special Attack is already at +6 stages, it will still become confused. Even if the target has Contrary and its Special Attack is already at -6 stages, it will still become confused. Flatter can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charm was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Flatter, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Flatter confuses the target and raises their Sp. Attack by two stages. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. Flatter is the only Dark-type move capable of inflicting confusion.

Title: Memento (move)

Memento (Japanese: おきみやげ Memento) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. Memento causes the user to faint and in return lowers the Attack and Special Attack stat of the target by two stages each. Memento bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, even if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. The user will always faint even if it is blocked by a protection move. The user will also faint even if Memento fails (such as if it is blocked by a substitute) or if it is unable to affect the target's stats (such as due to Clear Body or Mist), but the user will not faint if Memento is unable to affect the target's stats due to both stats already being at -6. Memento no longer bypasses accuracy checks, and has an accuracy of 100. The user will now faint even if Memento is unable to affect the target's stats due to both stats already being at -6 or if the move misses. The user will not faint if Memento fails (such as if it has no target, the move misses, or is blocked by a substitute), if the target is immune from being a Dark-type and Memento's priority is boosted by the user's Prankster (from Generation VII onward), or if it is blocked by a protection move. However, the user will faint if Memento is unable to affect the target's stats but still hits (such as due to Clear Body or if both stats are already at -6). Memento can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Block, Mean Look or Spider Web was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Memento, if a Pokémon is switched in to replace the user the same turn, that Pokémon has its HP fully restored (even if Z-Memento was not used successfully after gaining its Z-Power effect). Due to a glitch, this effect is not applied in version 1.0 of Sun and Moon. If used in a Max Raid Battle or Tera Raid Battle, Memento fails, and the user does not faint. Memento targets all enemies in the room and reduces their Attack and Sp. Atk. The move then cuts the user's HP to 1 and randomly warps the user to somewhere else on the floor (if possible). The Attack and Sp. Atk stats are cut to ¼ of the original value, with this reduction being separate from stat stages. This characteristic is shared with Aurora Beam and Charm. The reduction can be applied multiple times, up to 1/128. As of Gates to Infinity, Memento reduces stats to ½ the value, similar to Aurora Beam and Charm. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks. Memento is the only stat lowering status move that is not reflected by Magic Bounce. This move's name (particularly its German name) is a reference to the Latin phrase memento mori, meaning "remember that you will die". A glitch in Generation VII's Battle Spot caused battles to crash when Memento was used as a Z-Move. The same problem occurred with Parting Shot. As a result, both moves were temporarily banned from Battle Spot battles starting in November 2016. The glitch was fixed in the version 1.1 update.

Title: Facade (move)

Facade (Japanese: からげんき Bravado) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. TM42 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM12 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Facade inflicts damage. Its base power doubles from 70 to 140 if the user is poisoned, paralyzed, or burned. When using Facade, burn's effect of halving the damage done by physical moves is still calculated (unless the user has Guts). When using Facade, Burn's effect of halving the damage done by physical moves is now ignored. Facade deals damage. Its power is increased if the user has a bad status condition that does not prevent it from using moves (prior to Gates to Infinity, only burn and poison status conditions will power up Facade). Its power is doubled in the Rescue Team and Explorers series, and increased by 50% in Super Mystery Dungeon. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Facade also ignores the Attack drop from the Burned status condition. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Its power is doubled when the user is poisoned, badly poisoned, paralyzed, or burned. Ignores lowered Attack from burns. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power is doubled when the user is poisoned, badly poisoned, paralyzed, or burned. Ignores lowered Attack from burns. In the Generation IV core series games, due to a glitch, each time a Pokémon performs the animation for Facade, its sprite will be moved up one pixel. Although this move can potentially be used while asleep via Sleep Talk, the move's damage/power will not be doubled.

Title: Focus Punch (move)

Focus Punch (Japanese: きあいパンチ Fighting Spirit Punch) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM01 in Generation III, Generation IV, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. It is TM192 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Focus Punch is a decreased priority move. The user of Focus Punch will start focusing at the beginning of the turn the move is used, then execute the move Focus Punch at a priority of -3, unless it was hit by another Pokémon's damaging move before executing Focus Punch, in which case it will lose its focus and be unable to attack that turn. The user's focus will not be broken if its substitute is attacked or if it is hit by a status move. Its charging message is displayed before any other moves. PP is consumed even if the user loses its focus and fails to execute the move. Even if the user loses focus, it is considered the last move used (for the purposes of Encore, etc.). Starting to focus is not considered to be executing the move, and effects based on move order (such as Zoom Lens) will not activate from it. If a Pokémon becomes locked into Focus Punch by Encore but selected a different move that turn and hasn't already moved, it will use Focus Punch at the priority of the move it selected, but the charging message does not appear and it will still lose its focus if it took damage from an attack that turn. Focus Punch can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. If Focus Punch is known by a wild Pokémon (via Transform, Mimic, Sketch, or challenging the Battle Frontier), and the player unsuccessfully attempts to flee the battle while the opposing Pokémon has selected Focus Punch for use during the turn, the move will be executed immediately without the charging animation or message. If the user is hit before the attack, it will say, "<Pokémon> used Focus Punch!" before it says the "<Pokémon> lost its focus and couldn't move!". Wild Pokémon executing this move while the player unsuccessfully attempts to flee will always display the charge-up animation before executing the move. It no longer states "<Pokémon> used Focus Punch!" preceding "<Pokémon> lost its focus and couldn't move!" PP is no longer consumed if the user loses its focus and fails to execute the move. If the user loses focus, it is ignored when determining the last move used (for the purposes of Encore, etc.). If a Pokémon becomes locked into Focus Punch by Encore but selected a different move that turn and hasn't already moved, it will use Focus Punch at the priority of the move it selected regardless of whether it took damage that turn, and the charging message will not appear. One-hit knockout moves do not cause Focus Punch to lose focus. Unlike the core series games, Focus Punch is a two-turn move which can be executed regardless of whether the user is hit whilst charging. On the first turn the user gains the Focus Punch status condition, and will attack on the turn after. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, this move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. Due to it being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Focus Punch cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. Focus Punch is tied with Meteor Assault for having the highest base power of all Fighting-type moves, excluding Z-Moves and Reversal at its full power. An All-Out Pummeling based on Focus Punch is tied with Reversal at its full power for the highest base power of all Fighting-type moves. Since Focus Punch has a higher priority than Avalanche, Revenge, Counter, Dragon Tail, or Circle Throw, they are unable to break the focus of a Pokémon using Focus Punch. Thus, they and Focus Punch itself are the only attacks that can strike a Pokémon in the same turn it successfully uses Focus Punch, without the use of Quash or After You. In Generation III, a glitch will cause the user of Focus Punch to prepare to use it, but not execute the attack. This glitch is triggered by selecting Focus Punch in a Double Battle on the first Pokémon, pressing the “B” button, then switching out the first Pokémon. When the battle is conducted, the first Pokémon will tighten its focus in preparation for Focus Punch, then switch out. This is due to the charging turn having a priority of +8, therefore being executed before switching out. Poliwag and Togekiss are able to learn Focus Punch, despite lacking any visible hands to use the move. Similarly, Shroomish was also able to learn Focus Punch via Move Tutor and breeding prior to Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl.

Title: Smelling Salts (move)

Smelling Salts (Japanese: きつけ Resuscitation), named SmellingSalt prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It is the signature move of Makuhita and Hariyama, but other Pokémon can still inherit it via breeding. SmellingSalt deals damage. Its base power of 60 will double against a paralyzed target, but it will also cure the target of paralysis. If the target has a substitute, it only does normal damage (paralysis cannot be cured and power is not doubled). The name of this move was changed from SmellingSalt to Smelling Salts. The base power of Smelling Salts is increased to 70. Smelling Salts can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving the user an extra three appeal points if a certain move (Force Palm, Glare, Nuzzle, Stun Spore, Thunder Wave or Zap Cannon) was used in the prior turn. Smelling Salts inflicts damage. If the target is paralyzed, the move's damage is doubled and the target is cured of its paralysis. Despite real-life smelling salts restoring consciousness, Smelling Salts cures paralysis. Another move, Wake-Up Slap, does this instead. Smelling Salts curing paralysis may be reference to its Japanese name, Resuscitation, the process of using cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to rescue paralyzed patients in place of mechanical ventilators.

Title: Follow Me (move)

Follow Me (Japanese: このゆびとまれ Stay With This Finger) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Follow Me has a priority of +3 and makes the user the center of attention, forcing opposing Pokémon to use their moves on the user rather than the intended target (even if it was a friendly target, unless it is a move that cannot target an opponent such as Acupressure or Helping Hand) for the rest of the turn. If a move cannot target the center of attention, it will be used on its intended target. It does not affect allies. If the center of attention faints or switches out, it no longer draws moves. Follow Me can draw moves with a charging turn (such as Fly and Solar Beam) if it is used on the turn the move would hit. Follow Me will draw the moves Future Sight and Doom Desire only if it used on the turn these moves are selected. Follow Me draws Electric- and Water-type moves even if a Pokémon with Lightning Rod or Storm Drain is on the field. If another Pokémon on the same team is already the center of attention, the first user takes priority; if the first user is outside of range or stops being the center of attention, the attack will be drawn to the next center of attention. Follow Me has no effect on moves which hit multiple Pokémon in a battle. While it can be used in Single Battles, it has no effect. In Triple Battles, Follow Me will draw the attacks of all opponents in the field, but it can only draw attacks from non-adjacent opponents if they use a long-range move. Follow Me cannot redirect Sky Drop. If the center of attention is taken into the air by Sky Drop, it no longer draws moves. Follow Me does not redirect Future Sight or Doom Desire. Snipe Shot and the Abilities Stalwart and Propeller Tail ignore Follow Me and hit the intended target. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Follow Me, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. From Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl onwards, Follow Me fails in Single Battles. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Follow Me causes the user to gain the Decoy status condition which makes the user be preferentially attacked by enemies. This status condition lasts for 21-50 turns. From Super Mystery Dungeon onwards, Follow Me warps a random enemy in the same room to the tile in front of the user, and warps allies nearby the user to surround said enemy. A song under the same Japanese name uses this move as the title, as well as Pokémon and move puns. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks). Despite being introduced in Generation III, no Pokémon from this generation can learn the move. A Jirachi distributed through an event was later released during Generation V, being the only exception. In Pokémon UNITE, in Panic Parade, despite the line being unable to learn the move in the main series, Tinkaton uses this move at the start of each wave containing a boss.

Title: Nature Power (move)

Nature Power (Japanese: しぜんのちから Nature Power) is a Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM96 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Nature Power becomes a different damaging move depending on the environment that the battle is being conducted in. Nature Power gains priority from Prankster, despite always calling a damaging move in games that Prankster exists. Effects that depend on a move's type (such as Pixilate and Gems) will be executed based on the type of the move Nature Power becomes. Nature Power targets the user rather than any specific Pokémon. Therefore, in Double and Triple Battles, because of the inability to select a target, the chosen move always hit the opponent directly opposite the user, except in Pokémon Emerald, where it always targets randomly. If the opponent directly opposite the user had fainted, the move will randomly target one of the other opponents. If in a terrain that calls a move that affects multiple Pokémon, it will target the Pokémon usually targeted by that move. In Generation III core series, the environment is decided by a series of checks, which include the player's current tile and map, causing it to mostly match with the player's current location, although some quirks arise: While the water in caves has appearance of seawater, it is treated as pond water (though Camouflage has the same effect in both) Moltres and Ho-Oh are fought in cave environment, despite being located outside. Deoxys is fought in either mountainous or building environment. As fishing is done from an adjacent tile, it leads to various environments, but never actually water. In a Pokémon Contest, Nature Power uses AncientPower's animation (but not the effects). In Generation IV core series, the battle environment is roughly decided as such: Tall grass, sand, snow, ice, water, and marsh apply their own environment, although the last can only be found in the Safari Zone, making its effects unused. Fishing always results in water environment, unlike in Generation III. Honey tree encounters always result in plain environment. Otherwise, game checks the current map. This will result in cave environment, plain environment, rocky environment, tall grass environment, or urban environment. This sometimes leads to apparent mismatch with the current map; for example, Burned Tower, Embedded Tower, and Ilex Forest are treated as caves (but Lost Tower is not), while Cherrygrove City and Azalea Town are not treated as urban (but Route 17 is). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver there are also special environments for battles against each of the Elite Four and Champion, as well as in Distortion World and each of the Battle Frontier facilities. There are two unused environments: puddles (as those tiles default to the map's terrain instead), which have the same effects as tall grass, and an unfinished glitchy environment with unique effect, as seen below. In a Pokémon Super Contest, Nature Power uses Tri Attack's animation (but not the effects). In Pokémon Battle Revolution, the move called by Nature Power depends on which Colosseum is being fought at: Nature Power now targets an adjacent Pokémon rather than the user (even if the move it would turn into affects multiple Pokémon). This allows single-target moves called by Nature Power to target an ally, which was not previously possible. In a Pokémon Contest Spectacular, Nature Power uses Encore's animation (but not the effects). If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Nature Power, the selected move will become its corresponding Z-Move. Nature Power becomes a different damaging move depending on the dungeon terrain, which can change in the middle of a dungeon. Despite being classified as a status move, it is not affected by Taunt in the Rescue Team series. This is changed from the Explorers series. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, it is also affected by moves that change terrain. The Pokémon uses various moves based on the type of stage it's used in. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, Nature Power's accuracy is displayed as 95%. However, this number has no effect in battle, as Nature Power is guaranteed to call another move (which in turn will use its accuracy). In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen as well as from Pokémon Diamond and Pearl onwards, Nature Power's accuracy is displayed as "—" instead. The Generation III games are the only instance in which Nature Power can become a status move, in this case, Stun Spore. In Generation VI onward, all moves called by Nature Power are special moves. In Pokémon X and Y, all moves called by Nature Power are single-target moves; in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire and Generation VII, when Nature Power is used in a volcanic area it becomes Lava Plume, the only instance of it becoming a multi-target move in Generation VI or VII. Despite not being able to learn it in Generation VI, Diancie is seen using Power Gem on X and Y's official website. However, since the battle takes place in a cave, the move Diancie used might have been Nature Power.

Title: Charge (move)

If you were looking for the move called Charge in Japanese, see Take Down. Charge (Japanese: じゅうでん Charge) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM173 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. If the user's next move is Electric-type, it will deal twice the usual amount of damage. If its next move is not Electric-type or is a non-damaging move, the effect of Charge wears off without being used. Charge can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Shock Wave, Spark, Thunder, Thunder Wave, ThunderPunch, ThunderShock, Thunderbolt, and Volt Tackle to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If the user's next move is an Electric-type Attack, its power will be doubled instead of the damage dealt (resulting in virtually the same effect). But if the next move is a Status move, non-Electric-type Attack or hits into Protect/an immunity, the Charge is lost. Charge now also raises the user's Special Defense stat by one stage. Charge can also be used as part of a Super Contest combination, with Thunder Fang having more appeal points if used in the next turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing a damaging Electric-type move (except Electroweb, Wild Charge and Zap Cannon) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Charge, the user's Special Defense is raised by another stage. If the user's next move is not Electric-type, Charge no longer wears off, and instead remains active for the next move that is. However, if the user attempted to use an Electric-type move, Charge will still wear off even if a condition prevented the move from being used, such as being asleep or flinching. Multiple instances of the Charge effect (using Charge multiple times while the user's Ability is Normalize, or using Charge followed by an activation of Electromorphosis or Wind Power) are not cumulative; the next Electric-type move will still only deal twice as much damage, and no instances of the effect will linger to be used on subsequent moves. When a Pokémon with the Ability Electromorphosis is hit by an attack, the effects of Charge are automatically replicated. The user gains the Charging status condition until the end of next turn, causing the user's next Electric-type move to have its damage doubled. The status will wear off instantly after using a move, regardless of its type. From Explorers of Time and Darkness, Charge also raises the user's Sp. Defense by one stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Charge could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Charge could be seen as a move used by Boss Blitzle. A wild Shinx was revealed to know Charge on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Taunt (move)

Taunt (Japanese: ちょうはつ Taunt) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. TM12 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM02 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Taunt makes the afflicted Pokémon unable to use status moves. The effect wears off if the subject is switched out. Unlike most status moves, Taunt will affect a target with a substitute. If a Pokémon that only knows status moves is taunted, or is taunted after using a status move and holding a Choice item, then it will be forced to use Struggle. On the turn that Taunt is used, if the Pokémon using Taunt goes before the target and the target selected a status move that turn, the target's move will fail. Taunt can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Counter, Detect, and Mirror Coat to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. The duration of Taunt is now between three and five turns. The duration of Taunt is now three turns if the user acts before the target, or four turns if the target acted before the user. Taunt can now be reflected with Magic Coat and no longer affects Me First. Pokémon with Oblivious or under the effect of Aroma Veil cannot become taunted. Taunt can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Counter, Destiny Bond, Grudge, King's Shield, Metal Burst, Mirror Coat, and Spite) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Taunt will not prevent the target from using a status Z-Move, but will prevent a Dynamax target from using Max Guard. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Taunt, the user's Attack rises one stage. Clobbopus that know this move will evolve into Grapploct when leveled up. Taunt targets the enemy in front and inflicts the Taunted status condition. A Taunted Pokémon cannot use status moves. Prior to Gates to Infinity they also could not use Seeds or Wonder Orbs. From Explorers of Time and Darkness, the move can be reflected with Magic Coat. While the list of moves affected follows the core series, certain attacking moves (listed below) are classified as status moves in these games. Also, despite Assist, Fling, Metronome, Nature Power, and Rock Smash* being classified as status moves, these moves were not affected by Taunt in the earlier series. These were fixed in later games. Moves that are marked with ✓ cannot be used while Taunted. In Stick This in Your Craw, Crawdaunt! II, a wild Crawdaunt was revealed to know Taunt by Ruby's Pokédex.

Title: Helping Hand (move)

Helping Hand (Japanese: てだすけ Help) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It is: TM03 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Helping Hand is an increased priority move that will increase the damage done by the user's ally this turn by 50%. It will fail if there is no adjacent ally, or if the ally has already acted this turn. It can still affect an ally behind a substitute or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move like Fly or Dig. Helping Hand now targets an adjacent ally, and will raise its move's power by 50% this turn (resulting in virtually the same effect). Helping Hand will fail when used by the player's Pokémon in a Horde Encounter. In a Battle Royal, Helping Hand can target any opponent, and successfully increase that opponent's move power. If Helping Hand is used multiple times in a turn, all targeting the same Pokémon, the boosts are cumulative. The move power will increase by 125% if there are two Helping Hands, or 237.5% if there are three. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Helping Hand, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Tera Raid Battles, when Helping Hand is used multiple times on the same target, it does not stack and only applies the base 50% increase. Helping Hand targets all teammates other than the user in the same room, raising their Attack and Special Attack by one stage. In Pokémon UNITE, Helping Hand is Blissey's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 upgrading Pound into it instead of Egg Bomb. The user greatly improves movement speed and basic attack speed for itself and allies by 35% for 3s. During this duration, all of the user's basic attacks are boosted. After this bonus expires, the user loses any boosted attack that was granted. At level 12, the move also increases basic attack damage for all those affected by 15%. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom Ever since its introduction, Helping Hand has the highest consistent priority of all moves, meaning a Pokémon performing this move will always go first unless another Pokémon uses Pursuit on a recalled Pokémon, or a Pokémon with Prankster uses a move with +4 priority. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks.

Title: Trick (move)

Trick (Japanese: トリック Trick) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TR38 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM109 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. The user switches held items with the target. If only one of them is holding an item, the item is moved to the other. The target has Sticky Hold (even if it has no held item). Mail (except in the Japanese version of Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire) a Mega Stone, if either Pokémon could use it to Mega Evolve a colored orb, if either Pokémon could use it to undergo Primal Reversion a Booster Energy, if either Pokémon is a Paradox Pokémon (excluding Koraidon, Miraidon, Gouging Fire, Raging Bolt, Iron Boulder and Iron Crown) a Wellspring Mask, Hearthflame Mask, or Cornerstone Mask, if either Pokémon is Ogerpon Additionally, in some generations Trick can fail under additional circumstances. In Link Battles, battle facilities, Secret Bases, and the Trainer House, items stolen will be returned at the end of the battle. In Japanese Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, Trick can exchange Mail, but doing so may cause Mail corruption. In international releases of Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, as well as all releases of subsequent games, Trick will fail if either Pokémon is holding Mail. In these generations, Trick fails if either Pokémon has Multitype or either Pokémon is holding a Griseous Orb. Trick no longer switches a Trainer's Pokémon's items permanently; however, items switched in wild battles are permanently switched. Trick can now exchange the Griseous Orb, but still fails if either Pokémon holds the Griseous Orb and either Pokémon is Giratina. Trick can now exchange items with a Pokémon that has Multitype, but still fails if either Pokémon holds a Plate and either Pokémon is Arceus. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Trick, the user's Speed is boosted by two stages, then the move itself fails after obtaining the Z-Power since it is not possible to exchange a Z-Crystal. Trick will always fail when used in a Max Raid Battle or a Tera Raid Battle, regardless of the items or target. (It works as normal against Dynamax Pokémon in other battles.) In Pokémon Sword and Shield, due to a presumed glitch in accounting for the removal of colored orbs, Trick would fail in versions 1.2.0 through 1.3.1 if it was used by or against Groudon or Kyogre and either the user or the target was not holding an item. This behavior was corrected in version 1.3.2. Trick swaps the user's and the target's held items. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, this move will fail if at least one of the Pokémon is not holding an item. From Super Mystery Dungeon, the move will still succeed even if either the user or the target does not have an item. In Pokémon UNITE, Trick is Hoopa's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 4 and upgrading Confusion into it instead of Hyperspace Hole. The user creates a link between itself and an ally Pokémon using a ring, increasing both of their movement speeds and granting them each a shield for a short time. When the user uses Shadow Ball or performs a basic attack, the ring on the linked Pokémon also unleashes the same move or attack. The user can also use this move on itself, increasing user’s movement speed and granting itself a shield for a short time. Additionally, it increases the damage dealt by Shadow Ball. At level 10, this move also restores the linked ally Pokémon’s HP when it deals damage to opposing Pokémon. While in Unbound form, this move is replaced by Psybeam. In Generation IV, despite being able to learn this move via Move Tutor, it will always fail when used by Arceus due to its Ability Multitype. In later generations, it can successfully use the move as long as neither Pokémon is holding a Plate.

Title: Role Play (move)

Role Play (Japanese: なりきり Change Appearance) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. Role Play replaces the user's Ability with the target's Ability. Role Play bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It is not affected by Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Role Play fails if the target's Ability is Trace (Generation V onward), Wonder Guard, Forecast (Generation V onward), Flower Gift (Generation V onward), Multitype, Illusion, Zen Mode, Imposter, Stance Change, Power of Alchemy, Receiver, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Power Construct, Battle Bond, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, Neutralizing Gas, Zero to Hero, Commander, Quark Drive, or Protosynthesis. Role Play fails if the user's Ability is Multitype, Zen Mode, Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Power Construct, Battle Bond, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, Zero to Hero, or Commander. If the user is under the effect of Illusion, using Role Play will cause its illusion to wear off. If the user has changed form due to Forecast, it will change back to its original form upon the successful use of the move. If the target has the same Ability as the user, Role Play will succeed, but Abilities such as Intimidate that activate when they are gained will not activate at this time. Role Play now displays the Ability the user had before using Role Play. Role Play now fails if the target has the same Ability as the user. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Role Play, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Role Play replaces the user's Abilities with the target's Abilities. Prior to Gates to Infinity when Pokémon could have two Abilities, the second Ability will be removed if the target has only one. It will fail if it tries to copy Wonder Guard or Stance Change. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks.

Title: Wish (move)

If you were looking for the ending theme of the Korean dub of M22, see Wish (song). Wish (Japanese: ねがいごと Wish) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. The turn Wish is used, the user will make a wish. At the end of the next turn, the Pokémon in the user's current position will be healed by a certain amount of HP. Wish can still be used even if the user's HP is full, but it will do nothing if the Pokémon that should be healed has full HP. A Pokémon affected by Heal Block cannot use Wish. If Wish has already been used but the Pokémon that would be healed is affected by Heal Block, the move will do nothing. Wish heals the affected Pokémon by half its own maximum HP. Wish will now cast its healing effect before a Pokémon switches in for a Pokémon knocked out in that turn. Wish now heals for half of the user's maximum HP rather than the recipient's. Wish can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Bestow, Fling and Present to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Wish, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. In Pokémon UNITE, Wish is Umbreon's second move. It is obtained by upgrading Fake Tears into it over Snarl starting at Level 6. Wish is applied to an nearby ally Pokémon, reducing the damage they take until it triggers and restores their HP. If an ally with Wish is knocked out, the wish will move to another nearby ally. If there are no allies in range, Wish simply applies to Umbreon itself. At level 12, it becomes Wish+, boosting both the damage reduction and healing effects. Clefable's Unite Move, Wonder Wish, has similarities to Wish, similarly healing ally Pokémon, but draws more similarities to Metronome. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, the user gains the Wish status for 11-12 turns, increasing natural HP recovery to 3.3% of the Pokémon's maximum HP each turn. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the user gains the Wish status on the first turn and then recovers 75% of the user's max HP to the user and to all adjacent allies on the next turn. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Wish could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Wish could be seen as a move used by Boss Slurpuff. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Assist (move)

Assist (Japanese: ねこのて Cat's Paw) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Skitty. The Assist user executes a move that is randomly selected from all the eligible moves known by other Pokémon in the same party. If the same move is known by multiple Pokémon, each of them counts and therefore the move is more likely to be called. Assist can call a move that currently has no PP or is known by a fainted Pokémon. It is also able to call moves that are currently inaccessible to their original users due to Disable, Heal Block, Taunt, or Torment. If the other Pokémon in the user's party do not know any eligible moves, Assist fails. If a Pokémon is in battle and its moves have temporarily changed (such as from Transform or Mimic), Assist can only access its original moves. Assist can call a move from an allied Pokémon belonging to a different Trainer in a Multi Battle. In Pokémon Colosseum, Assist does not call moves from fainted Pokémon. Assist now cannot call a move from an allied Pokémon belonging to a different Trainer in a Multi Battle. It also cannot call moves that would fail due to Gravity or Heal Block being in effect. Assist can now call moves even if they would fail due to Gravity or Heal Block. Assist can use moves known by unhatched Eggs in the party. In a wild Double Battle, a wild Pokémon that uses Assist can use a move the other wild Pokémon knows (even if they are fainted). If a Pokémon is in battle and its moves have temporarily changed, Assist can now only access its current moves. Assist can no longer use moves known by unhatched Eggs in the party. Assist can also no longer call any moves that switch the target out or moves with a semi-invulnerable turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Assist, and if the called move is a damaging move, it will turn the called move into its respective Z-Move. If the called move is a status move, Z-Assist will merely execute that move without any additional effects. Assist cannot call itself or any of the following moves marked with a ✓: Assist randomly calls a move known by any Pokémon (prior to Gates to Infinity) / any teammate (from Gates to Infinity) on the floor. Unlike most non-damaging moves, Assist can be boosted by Ginseng in Red Blue Rescue Team (but not from Explorers of Time and Darkness). The move is not affected by Taunt in Red Blue and Rescue Team as well as Explorers of Time and Darkness, but is affected by it in Explorers of Sky. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks). The move called by Assist still has to undergo accuracy and evasion checks as normal, however. The Japanese name for this move, ねこのて Neko no Te (Cat's Paw), is likely a reference to the saying 猫の手も借りたい neko no te mo karitai, which translates to "I would even like to borrow a cat's hands" ("I would even like a cat to assist me"), which means "I need all the help I can get". This is reflected by the way the move works, and that many feline Pokémon are capable of learning it. The restrictions added to Assist in Generation VI are likely due an exploit when used by a Pokémon with the Ability Prankster in Generation V. If the rest of the party only know a specific move and nothing else that can be called by Assist, Assist will execute that move every turn with increased priority. When calling moves that switch the target out, Assist may keep forcing the opponent to switch out, without ever being able to execute a move. This strategy is often combined with entry hazards to also cause damage each use. When calling moves with a semi-invulnerable turn, Assist may keep a user holding a Lagging Tail or Full Incense in a permanent state of semi-invulnerability.

Title: Ingrain (move)

Ingrain (Japanese: ねをはる Extend Roots) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. The user plants roots in the ground, allowing it to restore 1/16th of its maximum HP at the end of every turn. This roots the user firmly in place, preventing it from escaping or switching out. If a rooted Pokémon is holding a Big Root, the amount of HP restored is increased by 30%. Red Card and moves that switch the target out (such as Roar and Whirlwind) cannot force a rooted Pokémon to switch out. it uses one of the moves that switch the user out (such as Baton Pass or U-turn) A Pokémon affected by Heal Block can still use Ingrain (rooting itself to the ground as usual), but this Pokémon will not be healed by Ingrain as long as Heal Block is still in effect. The effects of Ingrain can be passed by Baton Pass. Ghost-type Pokémon are treated as any other type, being unable to switch out. A rooted Pokémon cannot switch when the opponent's Pokémon fainted with the battle style set to “shift” Ingrain causes the affected Pokémon to become grounded: the Pokémon is therefore susceptible to Ground-type moves; Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Sticky Web (only relevant when a Pokémon is switched in via Baton Pass and obtains Ingrain); and terrain—regardless of whether it is Flying-type, has Levitate, holds an Air Balloon, or is under the effect of Magnet Rise or Telekinesis. Magnet Rise fails if used by a Pokémon under the effect of Ingrain; the move Telekinesis cannot affect a Pokémon under the effect of Ingrain. A rooted Pokémon can now switch when the opponent's Pokémon fainted with the battle style set to “shift”. Ghost-type Pokémon under the effects of Ingrain are now able to switch out. However, they still cannot be forced to switch by moves that switch the target out. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Ingrain, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Ingrain gives the user the Ingrain status condition which makes the incapable of moving (though it may attack) and unable to switch places with the team leader. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the Pokémon gains 10 HP at the end of the second turn, and every five turns after that. The status lasts for 16-30 turns. In Gates to Infinity, the Ingrain status lasts 7 turns and the Pokémon gains 15 HP at the end of every second turn. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the Ingrain status lasts 3 turns and the Pokémon gains 15 HP at the end of every turn. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Ingrain could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Ingrain could be seen as a move used by Boss Tangela. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Superpower (move)

Superpower (Japanese: ばかぢから Brute Force) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM49 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, and it was TR39 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Superpower inflicts damage, then lowers the user's Attack and Defense stats by one stage each. Superpower can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Lock-On was used in the previous turn. Superpower inflicts damage and lowers the user's Attack and Defense by one stage each. In Pokémon GO, Superpower is a Charged Attack that has been available since December 11, 2019. Superpower's German name is the same as the name for the Ability Huge Power in German. Though it translates to Great Power, the Japanese name of the move can also mean Animal Power, which may explain why it can be learned by several beast-like Pokémon, such as Luxray.

Title: Magic Coat (move)

Magic Coat (Japanese: マジックコート Magic Coat) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Spoink and Grumpig, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. For the remainder of the turn, Magic Coat reflects certain status moves back at the attacker. Refer below for the list of reflectable moves. If a move targets an entire side (such as entry hazard moves), if any Pokémon on that side reflects the move with Magic Coat then the whole side is unaffected (and only the first Pokémon with Magic Coat or Magic Bounce will reflect the move). A reflected move cannot be reflected by the new target's Magic Coat or Magic Bounce. Move-drawing Abilities redirect a move before it activates Magic Coat. Magic Coat takes effect before Soundproof. Magic Coat is an increased priority move and will go before most moves. If the user is the last to act for the turn, Magic Coat fails. In this generation only, in a Double Battle, if a reflectable move targets both Pokémon on a side, then: If the leftmost Pokémon is protected by Magic Coat, neither it nor its ally will take damage and the move will be reflected at both opponents. If only the rightmost Pokémon is protected by Magic Coat, its ally will take damage first, and then the move will be reflected at the attacker. In this generation only, Soundproof takes effect before Magic Coat. In battles with multiple opponents, if a reflectable move targets multiple Pokémon on a side, then the move will be reflected at the attacker only (regardless of the position of the Pokémon protected by Magic Coat). Magic Coat's effect no longer ends if it reflects a move, so it can reflect multiple moves per turn. In battles with multiple opponents, if a reflectable move targets multiple Pokémon on a side, then the move can be reflected at multiple opponents. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Magic Coat, the user's Special Defense rises by two stages. The following moves can be reflected by Magic Coat. This list also applies to Magic Bounce. Magic Coat gives the user (and teammates from Super Mystery Dungeon) the Magic Coat status, which causes certain moves targeting it to be reflected back at the attacker instead, without being affected by them. Magic Coat only reflects the effect the move would have on the user, rather than its usage; for example a move with multiple targets will still affect other targets (if they are not affected by the Magic Coat status condition), even if the Pokémon becomes incapable of action from the bounced move. Magic Coat does not bounce back attacks if the attacker is not adjacent, if the move has already been bounced back, or if it was cutting a corner. The status lasts for 11-12 / 6 turns. The following moves can be reflected by Magic Coat: In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it does not need an accuracy check). Any move reflected by Magic Coat still has to undergo accuracy checks as normal, however. In Generation VII, Blacephalon can learn this move by leveling up, but not by Move Tutor.

Title: Recycle (move)

This article is about the move. For the Item card or Trainer card in the TCG, see Recycle (Fossil 61). Recycle (Japanese: リサイクル Recycle) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM67 in Generation IV and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Recycle allows the user to recover a held item (such as a Berry) that has been previously consumed in battle. Items that were transferred to another Pokémon (such as via Thief) are not consumed by that process, so cannot be recovered by Recycle simply due to being transferred. Once an item is recovered (including via other effects such as Harvest or Pickup), it is no longer treated as a consumed item, so it cannot be restored again unless it is consumed again. Recycle cannot recover items that were knocked off. Recycle cannot restore a burst Air Balloon or an item destroyed by Incinerate. Recycle allows the user to recover a held item that a Pokémon in its current position had previously consumed during the battle. Recycle fails if the user already has a held item. Consumed items are tracked by position on the field. A Pokémon can recycle an item that was consumed by a different Pokémon, as long as that item was consumed while it was in the user's current position. Each position only tracks one consumed item at a time; if a Pokémon consumes an item, then another Pokémon is switched into that position and consumes another item, the original consumed item is no longer tracked—it cannot be restored, even if the other item is restored. Items consumed by Fling, Natural Gift, Bug Bite, and Pluck can be recovered; they are considered to be consumed in the position of the Pokémon that was holding the item before the move was used. Recycle cannot recover items that were knocked off by Knock Off. (In these generations, knocked-off items remain visible on the summary screen and are restored at the end of the battle.) If a Pokémon has a knocked off item and uses Recycle, it can successfully recover a consumed item (but not the knocked off item), but how this functions varies between generations. In Generation III, if a Pokémon with a knocked-off item uses Recycle, it recovers the consumed item and its knocked-off item is permanently lost (it will not be restored at the end of the battle). Its new item now functions as its held item. If its original held item was Mail, this can cause corruption. In Generation IV, if a Pokémon with a knocked-off item uses Recycle, it recovers the consumed item as its current held item, but it is still listed as holding its knocked-off item on its summary screen. At the end of the battle, its knocked-off item is restored (regardless of what its held item was at the end of the battle). If a Pokémon replaces its knocked-off item in this way, it can use that held item, but Trick and Switcheroo fail if used by or targeting that Pokémon, and its held item cannot be stolen by Thief or Covet (nor can it steal items by using those moves). Bug Bite, Pluck, and Fling all function normally with the recovered item, however. Recycle allows the user to recover a held item that the user had previously consumed during the battle. Recycle fails if the user already has a held item. Consumed items are tracked by the Pokémon that consumed them, and are not forgotten even if switched out. A Pokémon may only have one consumed item at a time; if a Pokémon consumes an item, then obtains another and consumes it, the original consumed item cannot be restored, even if the second item is restored and transferred to another Pokémon. Recycle can no longer restore items lost via Bug Bite and Pluck. Recycle can restore the user's Berry if it was consumed via Teatime. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Recycle, the user's Speed stat rises by two stages, then the move itself will fail after obtaining the Z-Power since it won't be possible to restore its own Z-Crystal. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Recycle turns a Used TM into the TM it contained. In the Explorers series, it cannot turn back Used TMs that originally contained Recycle. From Gates to Infinity onwards, Recycle instead converts a Plain Seed into a random Seed or an Oran Berry, excluding Life and Golden Seeds. In Gates to Infinity only, Recycle can yield Blinker, Joy, and Doom Seeds and status-curing berries. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, it can yield Training, Encourage, and Energy Seeds. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Revenge (move)

Revenge (Japanese: リベンジ Revenge) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM42 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Revenge deals damage and is a decreased priority move, causing the user to attack after other Pokémon that are using ordinary priority moves. If the target had already damaged the user in the same turn, Revenge's power is doubled to 120. Revenge gives the user the Bide status, where the user cannot move, attack, or use any items. The status lasts for 4 turns / 3 turns, and any damage received during this time will be dealt back at 2× / 1.5× to the enemy in front. Revenge cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. Revenge is Incineroar's down special. It can be used to absorb damage and temporarily power-up its other attacks.

Title: Brick Break (move)

Brick Break (Japanese: かわらわり Tile Break) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation III. TM31 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM13 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Brick Break removes Light Screen and Reflect from the opponent's side of the field (even if it targets an ally), then inflicts damage. It will remove Light Screen and Reflect even if the target is immune to Brick Break (i.e. a Ghost-type Pokémon). It will not remove Light Screen or Reflect if Brick Break misses or the target is protected from Brick Break. Due to an oversight, the trainer AI does not check for Light Screen when determining to use Brick Break. Brick Break can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. Brick Break now removes Light Screen and Reflect from the target's side of the field, even if the target is an ally. Brick Break no longer removes Light Screen and Reflect if the target is immune to Brick Break. Brick Break inflicts damage and removes any Reflect or Light Screen conditions present on the target. Brick Break ignores, not removes, Reflect and Light Screen. This move has a damage rating of ☆☆☆. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Removes physical and special damage-reducing effects from the opponents' field of play. In No Stone Unturned!, Professor Burnet mentioned that the Masked Royal's Incineroar used to know Brick Break before learning Cross Chop. In Blinding!! The End of the Battle, Henry's Sirfetch'd, Lancelot, was mentioned to know Brick Break. However, he has not been seen using the move so far. Cynthia's Garchomp was revealed to know Brick Break on the official website, but she was never shown using the move. In a Pokémon Super Contest, because there is no target Pokémon, Brick Break destroys a small glass wall instead. Bonsly and Pupitar can learn Brick Break, despite not having any hands. However, their evolved forms do have hands, and in Pupitar's case, its pre-Evolution Larvitar does as well.

Title: Yawn (move)

Yawn (Japanese: あくび Yawn) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Yawn makes the target drowsy. At the end of the next turn, the drowsy Pokémon will fall asleep, unless it is already afflicted by a non-volatile status condition. If a drowsy Pokémon switches out, it loses its drowsiness. Drowsiness cannot be passed by Baton Pass. Yawn bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Yawn will fail if the target is already afflicted by a major status condition or behind a substitute. Yawn will fail if the target has the Ability Insomnia or Vital Spirit or if it has Leaf Guard during harsh sunlight; a drowsy Pokémon that has Insomnia, Vital Spirit, or (during harsh sunlight) Leaf Guard will not fall asleep. Yawn will fail if used on a Pokémon without Soundproof during an uproar. It will also fail when used on a target under the effect of Safeguard, but a Pokémon that is already drowsy can still fall asleep while under the effect of Safeguard. If a Pokémon falls asleep from Yawn while it is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly, it will remain in that state until it attempts to use the move again (whether it wakes up or not). Yawn can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Rest and Slack Off to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. Yawn no longer fails during an uproar, but drowsiness cannot cause a Pokémon to fall asleep during an uproar. Yawn will fail if the target has the Ability Comatose or is a Meteor Form Minior; a drowsy Pokémon that has Comatose or that is Meteor Form Minior will not fall asleep. Yawn will fail if used on a target that is affected by Sweet Veil, Electric Terrain, or Flower Veil; Sweet Veil, Electric Terrain, and Misty Terrain each also prevent affected Pokémon already drowsy due to Yawn from falling asleep. Yawn can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare, and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Yawn, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Yawn inflicts the Yawning status condition on the enemy, causing them to fall asleep 3 turns later (if the target is in middle of a two-turn move such as Dig, it will be automatically brought out of it when it falls asleep). This move fails if the target is immune to Sleep. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon GO, Yawn is a Fast Attack that has been available since December 8, 2017. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Yawn could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Yawn could be seen as a move used by Boss Snorlax and opposing Slakoth. In Pokémon UNITE, Yawn is Snorlax's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Rest into it instead of Block. The user sends out a slow short-range projectile that puts all targets hit to Sleep for 2 seconds. At level 13, the affected enemies are also slowed for 3s after waking up. Multiple wild Slowpoke were revealed to know Yawn on the official website, but they were never shown using the move. Yawn is the only move whose English name begins with the letter Y. Its basis stems from the phenomenon of how yawns are contagious from person to person. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks.

Title: Knock Off (move)

Knock Off (Japanese: はたきおとす Knock Off) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM181 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM045 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Knock Off inflicts damage and knocks off the target's held item if it has one. If an Exp. Share or Lucky Egg was knocked off, the Pokémon will still gain experience accordingly. If an Amulet Coin was knocked off, the Pokémon will still gain prize money accordingly. Knock Off can knock off Mail (unlike other item-manipulating effects, which often cannot affect Mail). If the Pokémon's item is knocked off, that Pokémon's held item becomes unusable for the rest of the battle (even if switched out), but still remains visible on the status screen. If a Pokémon has a knocked off item, it cannot gain or lose an item: Trick and Switcheroo always fail if either Pokémon has a knocked off item, Thief and Covet cannot steal an item from a knocked off Pokémon, and Recycle always fails when used by the Pokémon. If Knock Off triggers an item (such as a Focus Band, Focus Sash, or Colbur Berry) after the attack, that item activates before Knock Off can knock it off (in the case of the Focus Band, which is not consumed, it will be removed after its effect has activated). Even if the user faints when using Knock Off (such as due to the target's Rough Skin or user's Life Orb), it still knocks off the target's held item. Knock Off cannot knock off an item from Pokémon with the Sticky Hold Ability or if it hits a Pokémon's substitute. Knock Off cannot knock off any item from a Pokémon with Multitype or a Griseous Orb from any Pokémon. Knock Off can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Fake Out was used in the previous turn. Knock Off now removes the held item rather than rendering it unusable; this means that the Pokémon can obtain another item if its held item is removed by Knock Off. However, Recycle still cannot recover an item removed by Knock Off. Wild Pokémon cannot remove held items of the player's Pokémon. If the user faints due to the target's Ability (Rough Skin or Iron Barbs) or held Rocky Helmet, it cannot remove the target's held item. However, Knock Off will still remove the target's held item if the user faints due to its own held Life Orb. If Knock Off causes a Pokémon with the Sticky Hold Ability to faint, it can now remove that Pokémon's held item. Knock Off can now remove a held Griseous Orb from any Pokémon other than Giratina. Knock Off cannot remove a Plate if the target is Arceus (Multitype has no effect on Knock Off), and cannot remove a Drive if the target is Genesect. If those Pokémon use Knock Off on a target holding this item (whenever or not the target benefits from holding the item), the item will not be removed. Knock Off's power has been increased from 20 to 65. Knock Off cannot remove a Z-Crystal from any Pokémon, a Mega Stone or Orb if the target could use it to Mega Evolve or undergo Primal Reversion, a memory if the target is Silvally, a Rusted Sword from Zacian, a Rusted Shield from Zamazenta, any of the Hearthflame, Wellspring, or Cornerstone Masks from Ogerpon, or a Booster Energy from any Paradox Pokémon (excluding Koraidon and Miraidon), even if it hasn't consumed the item because its Ability triggered from the appropriate weather or terrain condition instead. If Knock Off is used on a Pokémon that is holding an item that can be knocked off, its base power will be boosted by 50%. Knock Off cannot remove the held item of a target that has Sticky Hold or if it hits the target's substitute, but the bonus damage will apply anyway. If used on a Pokémon weak to Dark-type moves holding a Colbur Berry, the Colbur Berry will still be eaten, but Knock Off will get the damage boost regardless. If used on a Pokémon that cannot lose its held item — such as a Pokémon holding its corresponding Mega Stone — this move will not receive the boost. Additionally, the boost will also not be applied if the user of Knock Off targets a Pokémon holding an item that would not be able to be removed from it. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, when used in a Max Raid Battle, Knock Off fails completely, without even dealing damage. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, when used on an ally in a Tera Raid Battle, Knock Off deals damage, but does not knock off the target's item. However, if used on a raid boss that is holding an item, the held item will be knocked off as normal. Knock Off removes the target's held item. From Super Mystery Dungeon onwards, Knock Off also deals damage, increased by 50% if the enemy is holding an item. In Stick This in Your Craw, Crawdaunt! II, a wild Crawdaunt was revealed to know Knock Off by Ruby's Pokédex. A Team Magma Grunt's Shuppet was revealed to know Knock Off on the official web site, but it was never shown using the move. In Generation III, an animation of the bag disappearing appears when Knock Off knocks an opponent's item.

Title: Endeavor (move)

Endeavor (Japanese: がむしゃら Daredevil) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM205 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Endeavor causes the target's HP to equal the user's current HP. It will deduct the difference from the target's HP. This move does nothing if the user's HP is greater than or equal to the target's. Type immunity is not ignored, so Endeavor does not usually affect Ghost-type Pokémon regardless of HP. Endeavor can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Endure was used in the previous turn. It can also be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving an extra three appeal points if Endure was used in the prior turn. Endeavor damages an enemy to cut down the enemy's HP to equal the user's HP. It has no effect if the user's HP is higher than the enemy's HP.

Title: Eruption (move)

Eruption (Japanese: ふんか Eruption) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation III. Eruption deals damage. It has 150 base power at maximum HP, but its base power decreases linearly with the user's remaining HP, such that at 0 HP the move would have 0 base power. Specifically, its base power is equal to ⌊150×HPcurrentHPmax⌋. However, if this formula produces a value less than 1, the move's base power becomes 1 instead. In a battle with multiple opponents, Eruption targets all adjacent opponents. Eruption will also destroy round rocks found in the background of battles. Eruption can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Earthquake, Endure, or Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Eruption deals damage, with its power reduced the lower the user's HP. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the final damage is multiplied by ½ when at 75-51% HP, 51/256 (~0.2×) when at 50-26% and 25/256 (~0.1×) when at 25% or lower. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the power reduces proportionally to the user's HP. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Super Mystery Dungeon, Eruption hits all enemies in the room. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The lower the user's HP is, the lower the power of this move becomes. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The smaller the user's percentage of remaining HP, the lower the power of this move becomes. This attack move's power decreases to 80% if its user's remaining HP is at or above ½ but less than full, to 65% if its user's remaining HP is at or above ⅓ but less than ½, or to 55% if its user's remaining HP is less than ⅓. (Its power doesn't change if its user is at full HP.) Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer

Title: Skill Swap (move)

This article is about the move in the core games. For the Skill Swapper enhancement in Pokémon Shuffle, see List of items in Pokémon Shuffle → Enhancements. Skill Swap (Japanese: スキルスワップ Skill Swap) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. TM48 in Generation III, Generation IV, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Skill Swap exchanges the Abilities of the user and the target. If a Pokémon affected by Skill Swap is switched out, it regains its original Ability. Skill Swap fails if either Pokémon has the Ability Wonder Guard, Multitype, Illusion, Zen Mode, Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Power Construct, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, Neutralizing Gas, Hunger Switch, As One, Zero to Hero, Commander, Protosynthesis, Quark Drive, Orichalcum Pulse, Hadron Engine, Tera Shell, Tera Shift, Teraform Zero or Poison Puppeteer. Skill Swap bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Abilities such as Intimidate, that activate when they are gained, will not activate again after using Skill Swap if the Pokémon that receives the Ability has already had that Ability in some point during the battle since it was sent in. If both Pokémon whose Abilities are being swapped have Abilities with an effect or message that activates when gained, the Abilities will activate in the same order they would upon entering the battle. When using Skill Swap on an opponent, it states the new Abilities of the Pokémon. If the two Abilities being swapped both have an effect or message that activates when gained (such as Intimidate and Unnerve), the Pokémon using Skill Swap will always have its new Ability activate first. Skill Swap fails if the target's Ability is the same as the user's. If both Pokémon have the same Ability, Skill Swap will succeed. If it is an Ability such as Intimidate that activates when it is gained, it will activate for both Pokémon after being gained this way. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Skill Swap, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Skill Swap fails when targeting a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon. Skill Swap targets the Pokémon in front, and exchanges Abilities with them. The move will exchange both Abilities if a Pokémon has two, possibly leaving them with just one. It will fail if the target has Wonder Guard, Void Shadows, Dark Matter, or Stance Change. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks. Although Iron Valiant can learn Skill Swap by TM, it will always fail as Quark Drive cannot be swapped.

Title: Imprison (move)

Imprison (Japanese: ふういん Seal) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM44 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM092 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. As long as the user remains in battle, opponents cannot use any move which is also known by the user. This includes opponents switched in after the move was used, and non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Imprison applies only to the user's current moveset, including any new moves learned when leveling up in battle, or any moves acquired in battle by using Mimic, Sketch, or Transform. A Pokémon will use Struggle if it has no other available moves with PP remaining besides moves blocked by Imprison. Similarly, it will use Struggle if it is forced to use a single move by Encore or a held choice item but that move is blocked by Imprison. On the turn that Imprison is used, if an opposing Pokémon would move after Imprison is used and it selected a move the user knows that turn, it will be unable to use that move and will make no action that turn (i.e. PP for that move is not consumed). In this case, the affected Pokémon will not use Struggle. A move blocked by Imprison can still be called by Assist, Me First, Metronome, or Sleep Talk. However, Instruct fails when attempting to force a Pokémon to use a move blocked by Imprison. Imprison is unable to prevent opponents from using Struggle. Even though Imprison can be used in Max Raid Battles and Tera Raid Battles, the raid boss is immune to Imprison's effect. Imprison cannot be passed by Baton Pass. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Imprison, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by two stages. Imprison fails if no opponent possesses a move the user knows at the time Imprison is used. Imprison still works even if no opponent has a move the user knows. Although Imprison has no immediate effect in such a case, if the user or opponents change the moves they know (e.g. Mimic, Sketch, Transform, or learning a new move by leveling up) or a different opposing Pokémon enters the battle, it will be prevented from using the user's moves. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Imprison targets the enemy in front, and inflicts the Paused status condition on target for 5-12 turns, making them incapable of action. From Gates to Infinity onward, Imprison targets all enemy Pokémon on the floor and prevents them from using any move which is also known by the user. The kanji featured in Imprison's Japanese animations is 封, which is the first kanji of 封印 (ふういん Fūin (Seal)), which is its Japanese name. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Refresh (move)

If you were looking for the in-game feature, see Pokémon Refresh. Refresh (Japanese: リフレッシュ Refresh) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Refresh cures the user of burns, poison, or paralysis. It cannot cure freeze or sleep, so Refresh will fail if it is called by Sleep Talk. Refresh can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Sing or Water Sport was used in the previous turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Refresh, the user regains all of its HP. Refresh cures all allies in the same room as the user of all bad status conditions and removes move seals (though these are not considered a status condition). In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Grudge (move)

Grudge (Japanese: おんねん Grudge) is a non-damaging Ghost-type move introduced in Generation III. When Grudge is used, if the user faints as the direct result of an attack, the move which causes the user to faint will lose all of its PP. This move's effect only works if the user faints before making another action. Grudge does not activate for Struggle or for damage that occurs at the end of the turn, including damage from Leech Seed, poison, burn, Sandstorm, Hail, and Future Sight. If powered up by a Ghostium Z into Z-Grudge, the user becomes the center of attention, forcing all of the opponent's moves to target the user for the turn, if possible. If the Grudge user faints as the result of a Z-Move, Grudge will have no effect. If it faints as the result of a Max Move, Grudge will activate and display the name of the base move that was powered up, depleting all PP from that move. Grudge can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Curse was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Encore, Taunt or Torment was used in the prior turn. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, the user gains the Grudge status condition. If the affected Pokémon is knocked out, the move that knocked it out will have all its PP depleted. If the Pokémon is knocked out by a standard attack, the PP of the last used move will be depleted. This effect is blocked by Reviver Seed and is therefore useless on the team leader. The Grudge status condition lasts for the entire floor. From Super Mystery Dungeon, the user cuts its HP in half to gain the Grudge status condition. The PP of the attacker's move will be depleted to 0 when the user is attacked (but does not need to faint for this effect to trigger). This status condition lasts for 3 turns. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks). Despite its category matching this move in English and Japanese, Runerigus cannot learn Grudge.

Title: Snatch (move)

Snatch redirects here. For the status in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series, see Status condition (Mystery Dungeon). Snatch (Japanese: よこどり Snatch) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM49 in Generation III and Generation IV. Snatch is an increased priority move. After being used, if another Pokémon (including an ally) attempts to use a beneficial status move, the user of Snatch steals the move and uses the move itself instead of the move's original user. Snatch will steal the first susceptible move that is used by any other Pokémon in the same turn. If more than one Pokémon use Snatch in the same turn, the fastest Pokémon's Snatch will activate first, but the stolen move will in turn be stolen by the next fastest Pokémon's Snatch (such that only the slowest user of Snatch will receive a stolen effect in the end). If Acupressure is stolen, it will always be applied to the user of Snatch regardless of the move's original target. If Psych Up is stolen, it will target the Pokémon the move was most recently stolen from. Snatch no longer steals moves that were stolen by another Pokémon's Snatch on the same turn. The order in which moves are stolen is the same as the order in which Snatch was executed. Acupressure and Psych Up can no longer be stolen. All moves that can be stolen either affect only the user or affect the user's entire team. Rest and Swallow can now only be stolen if they would have an effect when used by the original user (regardless of whether or not they would have an effect on the user of Snatch). If Swallow is stolen and the user of Snatch is not under the effects of Stockpile, it will nonetheless recover 25% of its max HP. Snatch cannot steal Z-Moves, even if it could normally steal their base move. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Snatch, the user's Speed stat rises two stages. The Generation VIII moves Clangorous Soul, No Retreat, Stuff Cheeks, Life Dew, Victory Dance, Lunar Blessing, and Take Heart are affected by Snatch according to the moves' data. Since Snatch cannot be used in any of the Generation VIII or IX core series games, they are not included in the table. The user gains the Snatch status condition, allowing them to steal certain moves from any Pokémon on the floor, ally or enemy. There can be only one Pokémon on the floor with this status; another Pokémon using Snatch will remove the status from whoever currently has it. The Snatch status lasts for 4-5 / 6 turns. Moves that are affected by Snatch are mostly the same as in the main series. Imprison cannot be snatched unlike the main series games. Interestingly, in the Explorers series, the list of affected moves follows closely with the Generation V games (for example, Psych Up cannot be snatched, while Aqua Ring, Healing Wish, Lucky Chant, Lunar Dance and Magnet Rise can). Moves that would usually affect other teammates (e.g. Mist and Safeguard) will only affect the Pokémon with the Snatch status, even if that Pokémon was a teammate. The user will lose the Snatch status after snatching Rest, but will regain the status after waking up. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Returns the target's raised stats to normal and raises the user's stats by that amount. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks). In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, despite the move being unusable, Fantina uses a Banette that knows Snatch during the rematch. This was fixed in the 1.1.3 update, where Snatch was replaced with Payback.

Title: Secret Power (move)

Secret Power (Japanese: ひみつのちから Secret Power) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM43 from Generation III to Generation IV, and TM94 in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. In Generations V and VII, it was the signature move of Audino, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Secret Power inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing a secondary effect. The effect and animation are determined by the current environment. The effect and animation caused by each environment change between games, as do the environments recognized. In Generation III core series, the environment is decided by a series of checks, which include the player's current tile and map, causing it to mostly match with the player's current location, although some quirks arise: While the water in caves has appearance of seawater, it is treated as pond water. Moltres and Ho-Oh are fought in cave environment, despite being located outside. Deoxys is fought in either mountainous or building environment. As fishing is done from an adjacent tile, it leads to various environments, but never actually water. In a Pokémon Contest, Secret Power uses Needle Arm's animation (but not the effects). Secret Power's secondary effect chance is doubled by Serene Grace. Secret Power uses the animation for Needle Arm, regardless of location. Tall grass, sand, snow, ice, water, and marsh apply their own environment, although the last can only be found in the Safari Zone, making its effects unused. Fishing always results in water environment, unlike in Generation III. Honey tree encounters always result in plain environment. Otherwise, game checks the current map. This will result in cave environment, plain environment, rocky environment, tall grass environment, or urban environment. This sometimes leads to apparent mismatch with the current map; for example, Burned Tower, Embedded Tower, and Ilex Forest are treated as caves (but Lost Tower is not), while Cherrygrove City and Azalea Town are not treated as urban (but Route 17 is). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver there are also special environments for battles against each of the Elite Four and Champion, as well as in Distortion World and each of the Battle Frontier facilities. Those use the same secondary effect for Secret Power as urban environment, but with the exception of Aaron/Will's room, use a different animation and are listed below as "most special battle platforms." There are two unused environments: puddles (as those tiles default to the map's terrain instead), which have the same effects as tall grass, and an unfinished glitchy environment with unique effect, as seen below. In a Pokémon Super Contest, Secret Power uses Body Slam's animation (but not the effects). In Pokémon Battle Revolution, Secret Power's animation is the same for all Colosseums, but the move still has different secondary effects depending on which Colosseum is being fought at: Secret Power's secondary-effect chance is not doubled by Serene Grace. Secret Power's secondary-effect chance is now doubled by Serene Grace, but it is still not doubled by the rainbow effect from combining Water Pledge and Fire Pledge. In a Pokémon Contest Spectacular, Secret Power uses Last Resort's animation (but not the effects). Secret Power allows the user to create their own Secret Base. When used on certain trees, a vine drops down. When used on indented walls, a cave opens. When used on certain bushes, an entrance opens. It no longer has the out-of-battle effect of creating a Secret Base. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Secret Power can again be used to create Secret Bases at Secret Spots. Secret Power can only be used in the field once the player has obtained its TM (TM94). Secret Power deals damage, and may inflict a secondary effect depending on the dungeon's current terrain. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, it is also affected by moves that change terrain. Before Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, the animation was always the same, using similar graphics to that of Needle Arm's animation. Since then, Secret Power has had a unique animation that remains the same regardless of the dungeon terrain. The secondary effect depends on the type of stage it is used in. All other properties are the same regardless of area. In Getting the Drop on Gallade I, a Zangoose used in the Battle Castle was revealed to know Secret Power, but it was never seen using the move. move that can have a chance of freezing higher than 10%, excluding Blizzard in the Japanese Generation I handheld games and Sheer Cold in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Secret Power only uses the animations of damage-dealing moves. In Generation IV and V as well as Pokémon X and Y, Secret Power only uses the animations of single-target moves. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Secret Power uses the animation of Incinerate in a volcanic area and the animation of Swift in space, the only instances of it using the animation of a multi-target move in Generation VI. As a result, it has a unique animation when used in Horde Encounters in volcanic areas (there are no battles with multiple opponents in space). Incinerate shoots fireballs at all opponents, whereas Secret Power only shoots a fireball at the target. This is the only instance in the core series games that Secret Power has a unique animation. In Generation VII, Secret Power uses the animation of Incinerate when used in volcanic areas, the only instance of it using the animation of a multi-target move in that generation. Unlike in Generation VI, it uses the same animation as Incinerate in battles with multiple opponents, causing both opponents to react to the hit despite the move only affecting one of them.

Title: Dive (move)

Dive (Japanese: ダイビング Diving) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation III. It is: The user dives underwater and becomes protected against most moves during the first turn, known as a semi-invulnerable turn, and then the user deals damage in the second turn. Surf and Whirlpool are able to hit a submerged Pokémon, dealing twice the regular damage in all generations except in Generation IV, where the move's power is doubled instead (resulting in virtually the same effect). The user can also be hit underwater if it was previously targeted by Lock-On or Mind Reader, or if either the attacker or the submerged Pokémon has No Guard. Sandstorm, hail, and Shadow Sky will not cause damage during the semi-invulnerable turn. If the user is holding a Power Herb, this item is consumed and Dive will be executed in one turn. If a Cramorant with Gulp Missile uses Dive (or Surf), it catches prey and changes forms, unless it already caught prey or is Dynamaxed. Pokémon can be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Dive. Dive can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Surf to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance or Surf was used in the previous turn. Pokémon can no longer be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Dive. Dive allows the player to go underwater in dark patches of water. This requires the player to be traveling on water using Surf. Conversely, if the player is already diving underwater, then Dive allows them to go back to the surface in patches illuminated by light from above. Dive is usable either from the party, or by pressing A while being in a place where this move is usable (either when surfing in the dark patch or when diving under the light from above). The only regions in which these spots (and the HM itself) have been seen are Hoenn and Unova. Thus, it is only an HM in Generations III, V, and VI. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, the Mind Badge is required to use Dive outside of battle. Dive gives the user the diving status on the first turn. While the user is underwater, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves, except with Surf and Whirlpool. Projectiles will also pass the user as if their tile was empty. On the second turn, the user attacks enemy in the front. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. This move can be used only on a water tile (including the shallow water in water dungeons); it will fail if used on any other type of tile. If the water was drained with Drought Orb while in middle of Dive, the user will still attempt to attack, but fail due to not being on a water tile. Due to being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Dive cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. In Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, Dive is a TM. However, only Mew is technically compatible with it as it was not a TM in the Generation IV core series games; the only other Pokémon who can use it are those who already learn Dive via level-up due to the game's logic allowing Pokémon to learn TM moves if they learn them via level-up, even if they are not actually compatible with the TM itself. In Pokémon UNITE, Dive is Cramorant's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Whirlpool into it instead of Surf. The user turns the designated area into a puddle, then dives to that area, shoving and damaging enemies in the area. The user catches prey for Gulp Missile as they emerge from the puddle. Holds 3 uses in reserve. There is a 1.5 sec cooldown between charges, which is reduced with cooldown reduction. At level 13, the move's damage is increased. Gyarados's Unite Move, Dragon Current, is similar to Dive. In The Beginning of the End with Kyogre & Groudon XII, Sapphire's Wailord, Lorry, was mentioned to know Dive, but the move was executed off-panel. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom Unlike Whirlpool and Defog, which can be freely known by a Pokémon sent forward to Generation V when said Pokémon is transferred from a game they are not an HM in, a Pokémon with Dive will be prevented from being migrated to Generation IV even in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, where Dive is not usable, required, or available to the player without trading. Dive is the only HM move not to have been featured in the animated series so far. Dive has had the most individual numbers of any HM move, having been HM06, HM07, and HM08 in different generations. The European Spanish dub has occasionally had Trainers order airborne Pokémon to use Dive, despite them being unable to learn it. This is an error caused by translating the English script and mistaking an order to "dive" with the name of the move.

Title: Arm Thrust (move)

Arm Thrust (Japanese: つっぱり Thrust) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type multistrike move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was one of the signature moves of Makuhita and Hariyama. Arm Thrust inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Arm Thrust may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Arm Thrust unless it misses. Arm Thrust can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Fake Out or Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power is now 46.5. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. Arm Thrust inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team and Explorers series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end.

Title: Camouflage (move)

Camouflage (Japanese: ほごしょく Camouflage) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Staryu. Camouflage changes the Pokémon's type to a type corresponding to the battlefield terrain. The type caused by each environment changes between games, as do the environments recognized. In Generation III core series, the environment is decided by a series of checks, which include the player's current tile and map, causing it to mostly match with the player's current location, although some quirks arise: While the water in caves has appearance of seawater, it is treated as pond water (though Camouflage has the same effect in both) Moltres and Ho-Oh are fought in cave environment, despite being located outside. Deoxys is fought in either mountainous or building environment. As fishing is done from an adjacent tile, it leads to various environments, but never actually water. In Generation IV core series, the battle environment is roughly decided as such: Tall grass, sand, snow, ice, water, and marsh apply their own environment, although the last can only be found in the Safari Zone, making its effects unused. Fishing always results in water environment, unlike in Generation III. Honey tree encounters always result in plain environment. Otherwise, game checks the current map. This will result in cave environment, plain environment, rocky environment, tall grass environment, or urban environment. This sometimes leads to apparent mismatch with the current map; for example, Burned Tower, Embedded Tower, and Ilex Forest are treated as caves (but Lost Tower is not), while Cherrygrove City and Azalea Town are not treated as urban (but Route 17 is). In Pokémon Platinum and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver there are also special environments for battles against each of the Elite Four and Champion, as well as in Distortion World and each of the Battle Frontier facilities. There are two unused environments: puddles (as those tiles default to the map's terrain instead), which have the same effects as tall grass, and an unfinished glitchy environment with unique effect, as seen below. In Pokémon Battle Revolution, the type depends on which Colosseum is being fought at: If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Camouflage, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. Camouflage changes the user's type depending on the dungeon's current terrain or moves that change terrain. This effect lasts until the user moves onto the next floor. In Pokémon Pokopia, Camouflage is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Zorua in Bleak Beach. It allows Ditto to transform into an object directly in front of it. Ditto's PP constantly depletes while transformed. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks). From Generation IV onward, Camouflage makes the user the same type as the move called by Nature Power in that environment. In Pokémon Pokopia, Zorua can use Camouflage and teach it to Ditto, even though it has never been capable of learning this move.

Title: Tail Glow (move)

Tail Glow (Japanese: ほたるび Firefly Glow) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Volbeat. Tail Glow increases the user's Special Attack by two stages. Tail Glow now increases the user's Special Attack by three stages. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Tail Glow, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Tail Glow raises the user's Special Attack by two stages. This move is affected by Snatch. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Tail Glow could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Tail Glow could be seen as a move used by Boss Volbeat. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks). Manaphy is able to learn Tail Glow, which contradicts both the Japanese and English names for the move (Manaphy is not a firefly, nor does it have a tail). This may be due to the antennae on its head and a reference to the bioluminescence of many deep sea fish. Xurkitree is also not a firefly, and although it has a "tail", it does not light up.

Title: Luster Purge (move)

Luster Purge (Japanese: ラスターパージ Luster Purge) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. It is the signature move of Latios. Luster Purge inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense stat by one stage. Luster Purge can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Luster Purge could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Luster Purge could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Furthermore, Luster Purge's base power has been increased to 95. Luster Purge deals damage and may lower the target's Special Defense by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Luster Purge is a Charged Attack that was made available on May 3, 2022. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Jessie told her Seviper to use Luster Purge, but since Seviper cannot learn the move, it couldn't execute it. Although Luster Purge wasn't used in the animated series until close to the end of Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, it was first mentioned by Jessie in All Things Bright and Beautifly!, close to the beginning of Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire.

Title: Mist Ball (move)

Mist Ball (Japanese: ミストボール Mist Ball) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. It is the signature move of Latias. Mist Ball inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of lowering the target's Special Attack stat by one stage. It does not affect targets with Bulletproof. Mist Ball can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Mist Ball could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Mist Ball could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Furthermore, Mist Ball's base power has been increased to 95. Mist Ball inflicts damage and may reduce the target's Special Attack by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Mist Ball is a Charged Attack that was made available on May 3, 2022.

Title: Feather Dance (move)

Feather Dance (Japanese: フェザーダンス Feather Dance), formatted as FeatherDance prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a non-damaging Flying-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Pidgey's evolutionary line, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM216 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Feather Dance lowers the target's Attack stat by two stages. If powered up by a Flyinium Z into Z-Feather Dance, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Feather Dance lowers the target's Attack by two stages. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the target's Attack. In Pokémon GO, Feather Dance is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 31, 2021. In Pokémon UNITE, Feather Dance is Cramorant's second move. The user throws a circle of feathers at a designated area, slowing enemies by 20% in the radius and reducing their attack speed by 30%. At level 4, the move is replaced by either Hurricane or Air Slash.

Title: Teeter Dance (move)

Teeter Dance (Japanese: フラフラダンス Dizzy Dance) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Spinda, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Teeter Dance confuses all Pokémon adjacent to the user. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Teeter Dance, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Teeter Dance confuses all Pokémon in the same room (same floor in the Rescue Team series). The move will not confuse the user from Gates to Infinity onwards. From the Explorers series and on, Teeter Dance is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Teeter Dance could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Teeter Dance could be seen as a move used by Boss Spinda. Status changes caused by this move apply to each target hit. Teeter Dance is a Fighting-type move when used by Rosa (Champion) & Meloetta due to their passive skill Fighting Performance.

Title: Blaze Kick (move)

Blaze Kick (Japanese: ブレイズキック Blaze Kick) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Blaziken. It is TR41 in Pokémon Sword and Shield and TM133 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Blaze Kick deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It has a 10% chance of burning the target. Blaze Kick can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will gain extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Blaze Kick inflicts damage, and has an increased critical-hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). It can leave the target with a burn. In Pokémon GO, Blaze Kick is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 19, 2019. In Pokémon UNITE, Blaze Kick is Cinderace's first move. It is obtained by evolving form Raboot at level 7 and upgrading Ember into it instead of Pyro Ball. The user performs a fiery flying kick; shoving, burning, and critting enemies hit. In addition, the user is immune to hindrances while using this move. At level 11, after this move hits, the user's basic attack speed is increased for a while. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Jessie told her Seviper to use Blaze Kick, but since Seviper cannot learn the move, it couldn't execute it. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer Blaze Kick was the first Generation III move seen in the animated series. It was used by Harrison's Blaziken in Johto Photo Finish, prior to the release of Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire. Despite them being physically offensive Fire types that can naturally learn other kicking moves, Flareon and the Ponyta line cannot learn Blaze Kick.

Title: Mud Sport (move)

Mud Sport (Japanese: どろあそび Mud Game) is a non-damaging Ground-type move introduced in Generation III. Mud Sport reduces the base power of Electric-type moves by 50% on both sides in battle. The effects last until the user switches out. Mud Sport can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Mud-Slap, Water Gun, and Water Sport to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Mud-Slap or Water Sport was used in the previous turn. Mud Sport now reduces the base power of Electric-type moves by 67% (approximated as a factor of 1352/4096) on both sides in battle. Mud Sport is now active for five turns, even if the user switches out. If powered up by a Groundium Z into Z-Mud Sport, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Mud Sport changes the floor status to Mud Sport, which reduces the damage of Electric-type moves. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Mud Sport lasts for 10-11 turns and halves damage taken from Electric-type moves. From Gates to Infinity, the status lasts 20 turns and weakens Electric-type moves by 30%. Many Ground-type Pokémon can learn Mud Sport by leveling up despite already being immune to Electric-type attacks, making the effects of this move useless for them in Single Battles prior to Generation VI unless their type is changed. However, it can still be useful in Double Battles to help allies; starting in Generation VI, it is also useful in Single Battles due to the effect lasting after switching out. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the field as a whole (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Ice Ball (move)

Ice Ball (Japanese: アイスボール Ice Ball) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature move of Spheal's evolutionary line, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Ice Ball inflicts damage over five turns, doubling in power for each consecutive hit; the power will reset after five turns or if Ice Ball is interrupted. It is a consecutively executed move. Ice Ball's power is doubled in addition if the user had previously used Defense Curl. Pokémon with Bulletproof are immune to Ice Ball. Hitting a Mimikyu in Disguised Form will produce the Rollout storage glitch. Ice Ball is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Defense Curl was used in the prior turn. Pokémon Sword, Shield, Brilliant Diamond, and Shining Pearl Ice Ball's base power was increased to 40. It inflicts damage and causes the user to become fixated on using the move. Ice Ball deals damage, hitting the target up to 5 times per use. The move will end early as soon as a single hit misses. In the Rescue Team series, Ice Ball's damage is multiplied by 1.5×, 2×, 2.5×, and finally 3× for each successive hit. In the Explorers series, the damage increases only by 0.1× for each successive hit. Ice Ball's base critical hit rate is lower than normal (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series). From Super Mystery Dungeon onward, Ice Ball no longer increases in power for each successive hit, but will double in power the first time it is used successfully if Defense Curl had been used by the user on the same floor. If a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In A Timeless Encounter!, a Sealeo using Ice Ball is depicted as an image on Professor Kukui's "Book of Pokémon Super Moves". Excluding signature moves and Z-Moves, Ice Ball is the only Ice-type move to not be usable in Pokémon Sword and Shield. The animation of Ice Ball changes depending on the game it appears in: In the core series games and several spin-off games, it resembles a throwable ice ball. In Pokémon Battle Revolution, it resembles a rolling ball covered in ice.

Title: Needle Arm (move)

Needle Arm (Japanese: ニードルアーム Needle Arm) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Cacnea and Cacturne. Needle Arm inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. In Generation III only, Needle Arm will deal double the damage if its target had previously used Minimize. Needle Arm deals damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. In Generations III-V, Secret Power has the animation of Needle Arm if used in tall grass. In Orre, Secret Power always uses the animation of Needle Arm, regardless of the environment. Needle Arm is the only Grass-type move capable of making the target flinch. Despite Needle Arm depicting an animation with a fist, it is not boosted by Iron Fist.

Title: Slack Off (move)

Slack Off (Japanese: なまける Slack Off) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Slakoth and Slaking. Slack Off restores up to 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded down. Slack Off can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Yawn was used in the previous turn. Slack Off now restores 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded up. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Slack Off, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Slack Off restores a portion of the user's HP, with the percentage (of the user's maximum HP) varying each game. In Pokémon UNITE, Slack Off is Slowbro's second move. The user takes a nap, healing over the duration. Taking damage during the channel will reduce the amount healed. After reaching level 6, it is replaced by either Amnesia or Telekinesis. In The Good, The Bad, and The Lucky!, Jessie and James commanded the Slakoth and Slaking they pulled from the Rocket Prize Master to use Slack Off, but the two Pokémon were too lazy to obey. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the user (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Hyper Voice (move)

Hyper Voice (Japanese: ハイパーボイス Hyper Voice) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Hyper Voice inflicts damage to all adjacent opponents. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Hyper Voice can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Hyper Voice will destroy certain natural objects found in the background of battles. Hyper Voice deals damage. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition in the Rescue Team and Explorers series. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. Hyper Voice is one of Jigglypuff's special move Customization, which can replace Sing. The move's effect is visually similar to Sing, except that it lets out shock waves that can hit the opponent 3 times. In Pokémon UNITE, Hyper Voice is Sylveon's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Eevee at level 4 and upgrading Swift into it instead of Mystical Fire. The user unleashes an attack of multiple sound waves that deal damage when they hit. The damage dealt increases the farther the target is from the user. Every sound wave reduces enemy Sp. Defense by 20% (stacking up to 4 times at 80%) after dealing damage to an enemy. At level 10, the user creates an extra sound wave.

Title: Poison Fang (move)

Poison Fang (Japanese: どくどくのキバ Excessive Poison Fang) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM123 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Poison Fang inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of badly poisoning the target. Poison Fang deals damage, and may leave the target badly poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a good chance of leaving the target badly poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom Prior to Generation IX, Poison Fang was the only move with a chance to badly poison as a secondary effect.

Title: Crush Claw (move)

Crush Claw (Japanese: ブレイククロー Break Claw) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Zangoose, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Crush Claw inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. Crush Claw can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Swords Dance was used in the previous turn. Crush Claw inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Defense by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a good chance of lowering the target's Defense.

Title: Blast Burn (move)

Blast Burn (Japanese: ブラストバーン Blast Burn) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM153 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM158 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Along with Hydro Cannon and Frenzy Plant, Blast Burn is one of the ultimate moves of its type. All fully evolved Fire-type first partner Pokémon can learn this move. Blast Burn inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. Unless this attack misses, the user will always have to recharge. Blast Burn can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Various Move Tutors will teach Blast Burn to a fully evolved Fire-type first partner Pokémon. From Generation III to VII, the Pokémon also needs a maximized friendship rating. The Move Tutors are: HGSS: an elderly man in the Move Deleter/Move Reminder's house in Blackthorn City. B2W2: a man outside the Pokémon World Tournament building. XY: a man in the southwestern house in Snowbelle City. ORAS: a man in the southeast of Mauville City's first floor. SMUSUM: a man on the second level of Hau'oli City's mall. Blast Burn inflicts damage and thaws any frozen enemies. If the move hits at least one target successfully, the user is inflicted with the recoil status condition (Paused prior to Gates to Infinity) for 1 turn. This status prevents the user from taking any actions. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition (prior to Gates to Infinity). Since Blast Burn is exclusively a tutor move in main series, it is taught differently in Mystery Dungeon: In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Charizard will attempt to learn Blast Burn at level 99 if it has at least 333 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after reaching level 99, Blast Burn can be relearned at the Gulpin Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, an eligible Pokémon will attempt to learn Blast Burn at level 72 if it has at least 300 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after level 72, Blast Burn can be relearned at Electivire Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, Emboar can be taught Blast Burn via special TM. The TM is obtained once Pokémon Paradise reaches Perfect Rank. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the move can be taught at Hawlucha's Slam School by paying 11,000. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, the move can be taught at Gulpin Link Shop by paying 11,000 after completing the main story. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Blast Burn is a custom variant of Charizard's Flare Blitz. When used, Charizard will briefly charge up before rushing at the opponent. When the move makes contact, it creates an explosion that sends the opponent flying, and Charizard takes recoil damage. Compared to Flare Blitz, Blast Burn is much more powerful, but the recoil damage is higher and the move travels slowly for a short distance. In Pokémon GO, Blast Burn is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 19, 2018. Sygna Suit Red & Charizard's passive skill Piercing Gaze makes their use of this move never miss. Blue (Classic) & Charizard's passive skill Kanto Journey Legacy makes their use of this move never miss. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until August 28, 2020, which is 182 days after its release date (on February 28, 2020). Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Become Mega Charizard X until the end of battle. Raises the user’s critical-hit rate. Description of 6★-EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents."

Title: Hydro Cannon (move)

Hydro Cannon (Japanese: ハイドロカノン Hydro Cannon) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM154 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM159 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Along with Blast Burn and Frenzy Plant, Hydro Cannon is one of the ultimate moves of its type. All fully evolved Water-type first partner Pokémon can learn this move. Hydro Cannon inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. Unless this attack misses, the user will always have to recharge. Hydro Cannon can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Various Move Tutors will teach Hydro Cannon to a fully evolved Water-type first partner Pokémon. From Generation III to VII, the Pokémon also needs a maximized friendship rating. The Move Tutors are: HGSS: an elderly man in the Move Deleter/Move Reminder's house in Blackthorn City. B2W2: a man outside the Pokémon World Tournament building. XY: a man in the southwestern house in Snowbelle City. ORAS: a man in the southeast of Mauville City's first floor. SMUSUM: a man on the second level of Hau'oli City's mall. Hydro Cannon inflicts damage. If the move hits the target successfully, the user is inflicted with the recoil status condition for 1 turn (prior to Gates to Infinity, this move inflicted the Paused status condition), preventing them from acting on the next turn. Since Hydro Cannon is exclusively a tutor move in main series, it is taught differently in Mystery Dungeon: In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Blastoise will attempt to learn Hydro Cannon at level 99 if it has at least 333 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after reaching level 99, Hydro Cannon can be relearned at the Gulpin Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, an eligible Pokémon will attempt to learn Hydro Cannon at level 72 if it has at least 300 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after level 72, Hydro Cannon can be relearned at Electivire Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, Samurott can be taught Hydro Cannon via special TM. The TM is obtained once Pokémon Paradise reaches Perfect Rank. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the move can be taught at Hawlucha's Slam School by paying 11,000 In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, the move can be taught at Gulpin Link Shop after completing the main story. Hydro Cannon is tied with Water Spout for having the highest base power of all Water-type attacks, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Hydro Vortex based on either of them has the highest base power of all Water-type moves. Not counting the movie The Power of Us, Hydro Cannon has so far only been used in the animated series by Pokémon belonging to rivals.

Title: Meteor Mash (move)

Meteor Mash (Japanese: コメットパンチ Comet Punch) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation III. Meteor Mash inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of raising the user's Attack stat by one stage. Meteor Mash's power was decreased from 100 to 90 and its accuracy was increased from 85% to 90%. Meteor Mash inflicts damage and may raise the user's Attack by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Meteor Mash is a Charged Attack that has been available since October 21, 2018. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of raising the user's Attack. In Pokémon UNITE, Meteor Mash is Lucario's second starting move. The user punches with the force of a meteor, damaging and knocking enemies back. After reaching level 7, it is replaced by either Bone Rush or Close Combat. Meteor Mash is also one of Metagross's upgrade choices. It has the user charge power in its fist, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon in an area of effect while granting itself a shield. Upon reaching level 5, it is one of the options to replace Iron Defense, the other being Gyro Ball. The Ability Iron Fist, which boosts the power of punching moves by 20%, affects Meteor Mash. This move's status as a punching move is more clear in its Japanese name, コメットパンチ Comet Punch (a name which was already taken by a Generation I move in English).

Title: Astonish (move)

If you were looking for the skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Astonish. Astonish (Japanese: おどろかす Astonish) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation III. Astonish inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. In Generation III only, Astonish will deal double the damage if its target had previously used Minimize. Astonish's PP has been increased to 25, and it lower's the target's action speed. Astonish deals damage and may cause the target to flinch. In Pokémon GO, Astonish is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch. In Pokémon UNITE, Astonish is Hoopa's first move and Decidueye's second move. Hoopa starts with the move. The user deals damage to opposing Pokémon in the designated area of effect, leaving them unable to act for a short time. At level 6 this move is replaced by either Phantom Force or Shadow Ball. Decidueye starts with the move. The user deals damage to enemies and decreases their movement speed by 80% for a short time. At level 8 this move is replaced by either Leaf Storm or Shadow Sneak. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Fantina's Drifblim was revealed to know Astonish on the official web site, but she was never shown using the move. Astonish is the only Ghost-type move capable of making the target flinch.

Title: Weather Ball (move)

Weather Ball (Japanese: ウェザーボール Weather Ball) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Castform. It was TM46 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM193 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Weather Ball deals damage. When the weather is clear, Weather Ball is a Normal-type move. During any type of weather except strong winds, Weather Ball's power doubles to 100. (Type-based power boosts from weather apply as normal, in addition to Weather Ball's effect.) Weather Ball's type changes depending on the weather at the time it is used. Normal-type if there is no weather, it is foggy, or there are strong winds. Weather Ball can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Hail, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, or Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving the user three extra appeal points if a weather summoning move was used in the prior turn. Because damage category depends on the type of the move in Generation III, Weather Ball's category depends on its type. Unlike Hidden Power where Counter always activates while Mirror Coat never does, Weather Ball will activate Mirror Coat if it is a special move. In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, when used during a shadowy aura, Weather Ball's power doubles to 100, and the move becomes a typeless physical move; as a typeless move, it bypasses Wonder Guard, deals regular damage against all Pokémon regardless of types, and the user does not receive STAB. If a Pokémon with Color Change is hit by typeless Weather Ball, it becomes Normal-type. Weather Ball is affected by Normalize. It is now always a special move, so it is affected by Mirror Coat but not Counter. Weather Ball is unaffected by Normalize, Pixilate, Refrigerate, Aerilate, and Galvanize. However, it is affected by Ion Deluge (if the move would be Normal-type) and Electrify. Weather Ball has no effect on targets with Bulletproof. When used as a Z-Move with Normalium Z, Weather Ball will be turned into Breakneck Blitz, but then Breakneck Blitz will turn into the Z-Move of the type corresponding to the type Weather Ball would be in that weather. This does not occur if Weather Ball is turned into a Z-Move via another move like Sleep Talk. The same effect happens when Weather Ball is used as a Max Move, displaying as Max Strike but changing into the appropriate Max Move or G-Max Move corresponding to the type Weather Ball would be in the current weather. Weather Ball deals damage. Its type and power changes depending on the weather. In the Rescue Team series, Weather Ball is a Normal-type in Clear and Cloudy weather; Fire-type in Sun; Water-type in Rain and Fog; Ice-type in Hail and Snow; and Rock-type in Sandstorm. Its power is increased by 100% in all types of weather except Clear and Cloudy. In the Explorers series, Weather Ball no longer changes type or power in Fog. From Super Mystery Dungeon on, Cloudy, Fog and Snow are no longer present in the game. The power boost in weather is 25%. In Pokémon GO, the Fire-type, Ice-type, and Water-type Weather Ball moves are Charged Attacks that have been available since March 30, 2019. The Rock-type Weather Ball move is a Charged Attack that has replaced the Normal-type Weather Ball on May 31, 2021. On August 30, 2021, the Normal-type Weather Ball was added back to the game with updated stats. Unlike in the core series, Weather Ball's type is fixed and does not depend on the weather. The game's data instead stores its type variations as separate move entries. Despite Weather Ball becoming a Rock-type move in a sandstorm, Castform itself will not change form under these conditions. Prior to Generation IV, Weather Ball was one of the only two moves (along with Hidden Power) which could be either physical or special, due to the damage category being determined by the type.

Title: Aromatherapy (move)

Aromatherapy (Japanese: アロマセラピー Aromatherapy) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. Aromatherapy cures the user, all Pokémon in the user's party, and the user's allies, of all status conditions (sleep, poison, paralysis, freeze, and burn). Aromatherapy affects Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Aromatherapy will now trigger Sap Sipper on an ally. Aromatherapy cannot affect allies behind a substitute, but still affects the user even if it is behind a substitute. If powered up by a Grassium Z it turns into Z-Aromatherapy, which fully restores the user's HP. Aromatherapy cures the user and allies in the same room of all bad status conditions (e.g. sleep, sealed). Prior to Version 1.2.0, despite Aromatherapy being unavailable in Scarlet and Violet, it was accidentally not removed from Ice Rider Calyrex's level-up moveset. In the 1.2.0 update, it was replaced with Psychic Terrain, matching what Calyrex's other forms learned at that level.

Title: Fake Tears (move)

Fake Tears (Japanese: うそなき Fake Crying) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM47 in Pokémon Sword and Shield and is TM003 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Fake Tears lowers the target's Special Defense stat by two stages. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Fake Tears, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Fake Tears lowers the target's Sp. Defense by two stages. This move is affected by Magic Coat and Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Fake Tears could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Fake Tears could be seen as a move used by Boss Bonsly. This move never misses when used by Marnie & Liepard due to their passive skill Piercing Gaze. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the target's Sp. Def. No Dark-type Pokémon could learn the move until Generation V.

Title: Air Cutter (move)

Air Cutter (Japanese: エアカッター Air Cutter) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM040 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Air Cutter deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It hits both opponents in a Double Battle and all opposing adjacent Pokémon in Triple Battles. Air Cutter's odds of landing critical hits is calculated for each hit opponent individually. Air Cutter's power changed from 55 to 60. In Horde Encounters, it will target all opponents. Air Cutter will also knock down Berries growing on Berry trees found in the background of battles. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Air Cutter's PP has been reduced to 15, and like all other moves in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can only hit one target. Air Cutter inflicts damage, and has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers series). •Description of additional effect(s) prior to Version 2.20.0: This move's power increases when the target is flinching. In The Shape of Love to Come!, Rapp commanded her Zubat to use Air Cutter, but it was defeated by Mina's Ribombee before it could use the move. Air Cutter is the only damage-dealing Flying-type move that cannot hit non-adjacent foes in Triple Battles. Air Cutter is one of three moves that can be used to collect Berries from the Berry trees appearing behind foes in wild battles, the others being Twister and Blizzard.

Title: Overheat (move)

Overheat (Japanese: オーバーヒート Overheat) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation III. TM50 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Overheat deals damage and lowers the user's Special Attack by two stages. Overheat makes contact with the target in this generation. Overheat can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Sunny Day was used in the previous turn. Overheat's power has been lowered to 110, and it lowers the user's offensive stats for three turns. Overheat inflicts damage to all enemy Pokémon adjacent to the user, and then lowers the user's own Special Attack by two stages. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Overheat's description erroneously states that it lowers the user's Special Defense instead of Special Attack. This error is not present in the TM description of Overheat. In Pokémon GO, Overheat is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the user's Sp. Atk. Overheat appears as one of Chandelure's Pokémon moves. Chandelure glows red and charges up, gaining armor against a variety of attacks until it releases a fiery tornado. After the attack, Chandelure falls over and has its Attack and Speed lowered, referencing the Special Attack reduction of the original move. If used again with lowered stats, it deals significantly less damage, while when used in a positive state, it deals significantly more damage while also removing the buffs Chandelure had. Overheat has the same description texts as Psycho Boost.

Title: Odor Sleuth (move)

Odor Sleuth (Japanese: かぎわける Find Scent) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Odor Sleuth causes all accuracy checks against the target to ignore any changes to the target's evasion stat stages. If Odor Sleuth's target is a Ghost-type Pokémon, it also removes the target's immunity to Fighting-type and Normal-type moves. Odor Sleuth's effect ends when the target switches out. Odor Sleuth now only causes accuracy checks against the target to ignore changes to its evasion stat stages if its evasion stat stage is greater than 0. Odor Sleuth now also bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Odor Sleuth will now fail if used against a Pokémon already under its effect. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Odor Sleuth, the user's Attack rises one stage. Odor Sleuth targets all enemies in the room and resets any positive evasion stat changes to 0. If any of the targets is a Ghost-type, it will also inflict Exposed status condition on them, removing their immunity to Normal- and Fighting-type moves.

Title: Rock Tomb (move)

Rock Tomb (Japanese: がんせきふうじ Rock Seal) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation III. TM39 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Rock Tomb deals damage and lowers the opponent's Speed by one stage. It has a power of 50, 10 PP, and 80% accuracy. Rock Tomb can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rock Throw was used in the previous turn. Rock Tomb's power changed to 60, its PP changed to 15, and its accuracy changed to 95%. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Rock Tomb drops a rock at a fixed distance in front of the user. If the rock hits a target, it deals damage and reduces the target's movement speed. If it does not hit a target, the rock will instead remain in place as an obstacle that can block pathing and projectile attacks. The rock can be targeted, and will be destroyed upon being hit by any attacking move. Rock Tomb deals damage and lowers the target's Travel Speed (previously Movement Speed) by one stage. In the Explorers series, the description of the move was mistranslated and erroneously states that the move only has a chance to lower the Movement Speed. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. In Pokémon UNITE, Rock Tomb is Crustle's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Dwebble at level 4 and upgrading Rock Slide into it instead of Shell Smash. The user emits a beam that deals 100% ability damage. Upon reaching its maximum distance, or hitting an enemy, a curved wall rises from the ground, dealing 50% ability damage to anyone on top of it. When the barrier de-spawns, 50% ability damage is dealt again to all enemies near it. Rock Tomb can critically hit, however, the user's base critical hit chance is 0%. At level 11, each hit also inflicts 2s of slow. In All About Arceus VIII, Gold told his Sudowoodo, Sudobo, to use Rock Tomb, but the move was executed off-panel. In Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, and in Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD, the TM description erroneously indicates that using Rock Tomb will not always lower the target's Speed. The TM description erroneously states that using Rock Tomb can cause the target to flinch. When this move is used in a Double Battle, it appears to attack the Pokémon opposite of what the player has chosen. However, the damage is done to the Pokémon initially selected.

Title: Silver Wind (move)

Silver Wind (Japanese: ぎんいろのかぜ Silver Wind) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM62 in Generation IV and TM117 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Silver Wind inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of raising the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. Silver Wind's PP has been increased to 15. It has a chance of raising the user's offensive and defensive stats for 3 turns. Silver Wind deals damage to all enemies in the same room, and may raise the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense and Travel Speed by one stage. In the Red and Blue Rescue Team series, as well Explorers series, the move's secondary effect will activate for each enemy hit; each boost will be applied immediately after it is triggered. In Pokémon GO, Silver Wind is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Secondary effect: 2 Attack and Defense → 1 Attack and Defense Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of raising the user's Attack, Defense, Speed, Sp. Atk, and Sp. Def, and Speed. Silver Wind is the only variant of Ancient Power which cannot be learned via Move Tutor, instead being learned via TM. Throughout the Brazilian Portuguese dub of the eleventh season of Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, Silver Wind is commonly referred to as Asa de Prata, which actually means "Silver Wing". This is most likely a mistake that stems from the similarity between the words "Wing" and "Wind".

Title: Metal Sound (move)

Metal Sound (Japanese: きんぞくおん Metal Sound) is a non-damaging Steel-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM223 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Metal Sound lowers the target's Special Defense stat by two stages. Metal Sound can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Metal Claw to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Steelium Z into Z-Metal Sound, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Metal Sound. Metal Sound cannot affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. Metal Sound can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Metal Sound reduces the target's Sp. Def. Prior to Gates to Infinity, the move reduced their Sp. Def by three stages. From Gates to Infinity onward, Metal Sound reduces the target's Sp. Def by two stages. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Metal Sound could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Metal Sound could be seen as a move used by Boss Magnemite. Metal Sound is the only Steel-type sound-based move. The materials required to craft the TM for Metal Sound, TM223, were changed in update 3.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, as it had previously required material from Shieldon, a Violet-exclusive Pokémon.

Title: Grass Whistle (move)

Grass Whistle (Japanese: くさぶえ Grass Flute), formatted as GrassWhistle prior to Pokémon X and Y, is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Roselia, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Pokémon with Insomnia, Vital Spirit, Shields Down (with the shield active), or Comatose as their Ability are immune to sleep. Pokémon with Soundproof (due to being a sound-based move) or Sap Sipper (due to being a Grass-type move) are also immune to Grass Whistle. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Grass Whistle, the user's Speed stat rises one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Grass Whistle. Grass Whistle can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare, and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Grass Whistle cannot affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. Grass Whistle can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Grass Whistle puts the target to sleep. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. Grass Whistle was the only sleep move to be made unusable in Generation VIII. Despite several of Nuzleaf's Pokédex entries stating that it uses the leaf on its head as a flute, Nuzleaf cannot learn this move. Grass Whistle is the only Grass-type sound-based move. Grass Whistle is the only Grass-type sleep move that Grass Pokémon are not immune to.

Title: Tickle (move)

Tickle (Japanese: くすぐる Tickle) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Tickle reduces the target's Attack and Defense stats by one stage each. In Generation III only, Tickle is not blocked by substitute. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Tickle, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Tickle lowers the target's Attack and Defense by one stage each. This move is affected by Magic Coat. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Tickle could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Tickle could be seen as a move used by Boss Mime Jr., Minccino, Gothita.

Title: Cosmic Power (move)

Cosmic Power (Japanese: コスモパワー Cosmo Power) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TR44 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Cosmic Power boosts the Defense and Special Defense of the user by one stage each. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Cosmic Power, the user's Special Defense stat rises another stage. Cosmic Power raises the user's Defense and Sp. Defense by one stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Cosmic Power could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Cosmic Power could be seen as a move used by opposing Cosmoem.

Title: Water Spout (move)

Water Spout (Japanese: しおふき Water Spout) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation III. Water Spout deals damage. It has 150 base power at maximum HP, but its base power decreases proportionally to the user's remaining HP. Specifically, its base power is equal to ⌊150×HPcurrentHPmax⌋. However, if this formula produces a value less than 1, the move's base power becomes 1 instead. In a battle with multiple opponents, Water Spout will target all adjacent opponents. Water Spout will also destroy stalagmites found in the background of battles. Water Spout can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Water Spout deals damage, with its power reduced the lower the user's HP. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the final damage is multiplied by ½ when at 75-51% HP, 51/256 (~0.2×) when at 50-26% and 25/256 (~0.1×) when at 25% or lower. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the power reduces proportionally to the user's HP. When used by a gigantic Pokémon in Super Mystery Dungeon, Water Spout hits all enemies in the room. In Pokémon UNITE, Water Spout is Blastoise's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Wartortle stage at level 5 and upgrading Water Gun into it instead of Hydro Pump. The user calls down a barrage of water in a targeted radius. Enemies within the radius are struck 6 times over its duration, damaging and slowing them. At level 11, its damage increases. Water Spout is tied with Hydro Cannon for having the highest base power of all Water-type attacks, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Hydro Vortex based on either of them has the highest base power of all Water-type moves. In Generation III, the magnitude and duration of the enemy's shaking in the Water Spout attack animation depends on the calculated base power. This is not bounded by full power; if the user's HP is above its max HP, for example with Pomeg glitch, the enemy will shake further and longer than intended.

Title: Signal Beam (move)

Signal Beam (Japanese: シグナルビーム Signal Beam) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation III. Signal Beam deals damage and has a 10% chance of confusing the target. Signal Beam deals damage and may leave the target confused. Signal Beam is the only Platinum Move Tutor move that requires each kind of shard to learn. All others require only one, two, or three types of shards. Signal Beam is the only Bug-type move capable of inflicting confusion.

Title: Shadow Punch (move)

Shadow Punch (Japanese: シャドーパンチ Shadow Punch) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM118 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Shadow Punch inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Pokémon GO, Shadow Punch has been an available move since the release of the game on July 6, 2016, but it hadn't been assigned to any Pokémon until February 16, 2017, when it was assigned to Haunter.

Title: Extrasensory (move)

Extrasensory (Japanese: じんつうりき Supernatural Power) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Nuzleaf, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Extrasensory inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of causing the target to flinch. In Generation III only, Extrasensory will deal double the damage if its target had previously used Minimize. Extrasensory's PP has been reduced to 15, and its power has been lowered to 70. It also lowers the target's action speed. Extrasensory deals damage, and may flinch the enemy. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Extrasensory hits enemies in the same room and has a base accuracy of 90%. In Pokémon GO, Extrasensory is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Shock!! Chairman Rose's Plan, Shielbert commanded his Bronzong to use Extrasensory, but the move was executed off-panel. Prior to its PP being reduced in Generation VI, Extrasensory had the highest PP to power ratio of all moves.

Title: Sky Uppercut (move)

Sky Uppercut (Japanese: スカイアッパー Sky Uppercut) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation III. Sky Uppercut deals damage and can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly, Bounce, and Sky Drop. Sky Uppercut can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Focus Energy was used in the previous turn. Sky Uppercut inflicts damage, including to enemies in the air due to moves such as Fly or Bounce.

Title: Sand Tomb (move)

Sand Tomb (Japanese: すなじごく Sand Hell) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM49 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM176 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Sand Tomb inflicts 1/16 of the target's maximum HP as damage for two to five turns upon use, in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. When successful, the text "<Pokémon> was trapped by SAND TOMB!" appears. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a trapped Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. If a wild Pokémon uses Sand Tomb on the player's Pokémon, the player may escape if the affected Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. However, these do not allow the player to switch the Pokémon out. Sand Tomb has a power of 15 and an accuracy of 70. Sand Tomb can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Sandstorm was used in the previous turn. In Generation IV, if the user of Sand Tomb is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 5 turns. Also, if an affected Pokémon is holding a Shed Shell, it can switch out. Sand Tomb's power and accuracy were increased to 35 and 85 respectively, and now lasts four to five turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/16 of the target's maximum HP to 1/8. If the user of Sand Tomb is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will be 7 turns. The text was also altered to, "<Pokémon> became trapped by Sand Tomb!" The end turn damage of Sand Tomb is increased from 1/16 to 1/8 of the target's maximum HP. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the end turn damage of Sand Tomb will increase to 1/6 of the target's maximum HP. Ghost-type Pokémon cannot be trapped by Sand Tomb. Sand Tomb can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Sandstorm was used in the prior turn. In the Rescue Team, Explorers, and Adventure Squad series, Sand Tomb deals damage and can inflict the Constriction status condition on the enemy. With this, the Pokémon cannot move (though it may attack), cannot switch places with the team leader, and loses 5 HP every two turns (for 4-6 turns). From Gates to Infinity, it instead can cause the Sand Tomb status condition which causes the enemy to lose 3 HP at the end of every 2 turns (lasting 6 turns). In Pokémon GO, Sand Tomb is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Its Japanese name, すなじごく Suna Jigoku (Sand Hell), is likely referring to the sand pit traps dug by antlions.

Title: Sheer Cold (move)

Sheer Cold (Japanese: ぜったいれいど Absolute Zero) is an Ice-type one-hit knockout move introduced in Generation III. It is TM155 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. If Sheer Cold hits, it will inflict damage equal to the target's current HP. Despite having an accuracy of 30% listed, Sheer Cold's chance of hitting a Pokémon is instead calculated using the following formula: This formula means that the accuracy starts at 30% when the Pokémon have the same level, and is 1% more likely to hit for every level the user is higher than the target. If the user is at least 70 levels higher than the target, Sheer Cold will always hit. If the user is a lower level than the target, the move always fails. This chance of hitting is not an accuracy: it is not affected by accuracy and evasion stats, nor is it affected by other accuracy modifiers such as Gravity, Wide Lens, and Compound Eyes. Additionally, Sheer Cold cannot hit a semi-invulnerable Pokémon. However, effects that guarantee moves to hit (such as No Guard and Lock-On) still affect Sheer Cold if the user's level isn't lower than the target's. Sheer Cold can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination and will give an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Lock-On, Mind Reader and Miracle Eye was used in the prior turn. Additionally, the move's base chance of hitting is only 20% if the user is not an Ice-type Pokémon: Under this formula, if the user is at least 80 levels higher than the target, Sheer Cold will always hit. When used in a Max Raid Battle against a Dynamax Pokémon while it is under the effect of a mysterious barrier, Sheer Cold will deplete two bars of the barrier's strength if it hits. Otherwise, Sheer Cold will always fail against Dynamax Pokémon. Tera Raid bosses are unaffected by Sheer Cold. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Sheer Cold doesn't instantly knock out targets, instead dealing damage normally. Sheer Cold freezes targets every time it hits. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Sheer Cold is not a one-hit knockout move, so Cryogonal receives STAB when using it. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Sheer Cold is not a one-hit knockout move, so Ice-type Pokémon receive STAB when using it. Sheer Cold defeats the target in one hit. Prior to Gates to Infinity, Sheer Cold knocks out the target by deaing "calamitous damage" (Japanese: とてつもない タメージ tremendous damage) which is internally treated as 9999 damage. Sheer Cold is the only OHKO move introduced outside of Generation I, and the only special OHKO move. Prior to Generation VII, it was the only OHKO move that no Pokémon had a type-based immunity to. Sheer Cold is the only damage-dealing move where a type immunity can occur through the move’s property rather than by standard type matchups or Ability immunities. In this case, Ice-types are immune to the attack as of Generation VII. Sheer Cold, as it functions in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, is the only move with a 100% chance to inflict the freeze status condition on the target.

Title: Muddy Water (move)

Muddy Water (Japanese: だくりゅう Muddy Stream) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Marshtomp and Swampert. Muddy Water inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of lowering each target's accuracy by one stage. Muddy Water targets all adjacent opponents. Muddy Water can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Muddy Water's power was lowered to 90. Muddy Water will also destroy stalagmites found in the background of battles. Muddy Water inflicts damage and may lower the target's accuracy by one stage. From Gates to Infinity onwards, the move now affects all Pokémon in the same room except the user (including enemies and teammates). In Pokémon GO, Muddy Water is a Charged Attack that has been available since July 21, 2019. Stat decreases caused by this move are calculated independently for each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of lowering the target's accuracy. Surf and Muddy Water have had similar in-game animations since the latter's introduction, with the only difference being the color.

Title: Bullet Seed (move)

Bullet Seed (Japanese: タネマシンガン Seed Machine Gun) is a damage-dealing Grass-type multistrike move introduced in Generation III. TM09 from Generation III to Generation IV, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Bullet Seed inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Bullet Seed may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Bide will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. Pokémon with Skill Link will always hit five times when using Bullet Seed unless it misses. Pokémon with Bulletproof are immune to Bullet Seed. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Bullet Seed's base power is 10 per strike. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Bullet Seed is a special move. Mirror Coat will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. Bullet Seed can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. Bullet Seed is now a physical move. Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. Bullet Seed's base power was increased from 10 to 25. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power is now 77.5. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Bullet Seed can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Rototiller was used in the prior turn. Bullet Seed will always hit 5 times. When used as a Plus Move, it will always hit 6 times. Bullet Seed inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Prior to Gates to Infinity, if a targeted Pokémon faints in middle of the attack, the remaining projectiles will be able to hit a new target, and are still executed if a Reviver Seed activates. Bullet Seed is Ivysaur's Neutral Special move. Using it causes seeds to shoot up from Ivysaur's bulb, dealing repeated damage to those caught in the flare. In Pokémon GO, Bullet Seed is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Bullet Seed is Greedent's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Belch. The user spits Berry seeds in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and decrease their movement speed for a short time. The more Oran Berries the user has stashed, the more damage this move deals. At level 13, this move's damage is increased. In No Stone Unturned!, Ash tried to teach his Rowlet Bullet Seed, despite Rowlet being unable to learn the move until Generation IX. Bullet Seed is the only Grass-type multistrike move.

Title: Aerial Ace (move)

Aerial Ace (Japanese: つばめがえし Swallow Return) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation III. TM40 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Aerial Ace inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Aerial Ace can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. •Description of the additional effect from 6★ EX prior to Version 2.18.5: "Additional Effects: The stat increase after a sync move is doubled once per battle." In Pokémon UNITE, Aerial Ace is Talonflame's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Fletchinder at level 5 and upgrading Peck into it instead of Flame Charge. The user dashes through a targeted enemy, damaging it. The user's next basic attack is boosted. At level 11, the move's damage is increased. In Magnificent Meditite & Really Riolu II, Platinum told Pearl's Chatot, Chatler, to use Aerial Ace, but the move was executed off-panel. This move is based on and named after Sasaki Kojirō's "Turning Swallow Cut" sword technique, so named due to its resemblance to the motion of a swallow's tail in flight, and is usually construed as a quick upward slash followed by a second one down the same direction, same as the move's animation.

Title: Icicle Spear (move)

Icicle Spear (Japanese: つららばり Icicle Needle) is a damage-dealing Ice-type multistrike move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Shellder, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Icicle Spear inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Icicle Spear may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Bide and Mirror Coat will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the user is holding a King's Rock, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Icicle Spear unless it misses. Due to being now classified as a physical move, Icicle Spear is affected by Counter instead of Mirror Coat. If the user is holding a Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Icicle Spear's base power was increased to 25. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power is now 77.5. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Icicle Spear shoots a spread of five icicles in front of the user, with the center icicle aimed at the target. Multiple icicles can hit the same target. Because Icicle Spear is classified as a long-range move, the user will move to its trainer's position before starting its wind-up; as such, it is more effective when used while the trainer is close to the target, allowing multiple icicles to hit. Icicle Spear inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (2% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pokémon GO, Icicle Spear is a Charged Attack that was made available on January 16, 2022. This move is unavailable to the player in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald and Pokémon Colosseum and XD without trading, as no Pokémon can learn it without breeding outside of Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen.

Title: Iron Defense (move)

Iron Defense redirects here. For the Pokémon Battle e card pack, see Iron Defense (Battle e). Iron Defense (Japanese: てっぺき Iron Wall) is a non-damaging Steel-type move introduced in Generation III. Iron Defense raises the user's Defense stat by two stages. If powered up by a Steelium Z into Z-Iron Defense, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Iron Defense's PP has been increased to 20, and it raises the user's defensive stats for five turns. Iron Defense raises the user's Defense by two stages. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Iron Defense could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Iron Defense could be seen as a move used by Boss Blastoise, Shieldon, Bastiodon, Bronzor. In Pokémon UNITE, Iron Defense is Aegislash's second starting move. The move envelops the user in a powerful protective force for 3s or after blocking one attack. If this move blocks an attack, increase boost count by 1. After reaching level 8, this move is replaced by either Wide Guard or Iron Head.

Title: Block (move)

If you were looking for the Bulbapedia policy on blocking, see Bulbapedia:Blocking policy. Block (Japanese: とおせんぼう Block) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Block prevents the target from switching out or fleeing (including via Teleport). It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. The effect only applies as long as the Pokémon that used it remains in battle. The affected Pokémon can still switch out via Baton Pass, but in that case, the Pokémon that switches in will now be affected. Affected Pokémon can also switch out with U-turn. Conversely, the Pokémon that used Block can switch out with Baton Pass and the effects of Block will still apply. Also, if the affected Pokémon is Roared at or hit with a Whirlwind, they will still be switched out. If a wild Pokémon uses Block on the player's Pokémon, the player will be unable to escape, unless the player's Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. If a Pokémon traps a target with Block and then switches with Baton Pass the target will no longer be trapped. Pokémon affected by Block can switch out with Volt Switch. Also, Dragon Tail and Circle Throw will force the affected Pokémon to switch out. Block no longer affects Ghost-type Pokémon. It will now hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Pokémon affected by Block can also switch out with Parting Shot and Flip Turn. Block can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Explosion, Memento, Perish Song, and Self-Destruct) to gain an extra three appeal points if they are used in the next turn. If powered up by Normalium Z into Z-Block, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Block inflicts the stuck (previously Leg Hold/Shadow Hold) status condition which prevents the target from moving (but may attack), or switch places with the team leader. This status lasts for 2-5/ 7turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon Ghost-type Pokémon cannot become stuck. In Pokémon UNITE, Block is Snorlax's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 upgrading Rest into it instead of Yawn. The user creates and holds a wall in a targeted direction for 4 seconds. Enemies that contact the wall are knocked back and stunned. The user cannot attack or use abilities while Blocking but can move slowly. While Blocking the user's Defense and Sp. Defense are increased by 25%. At level 13, the user takes less damage while this move is in effect. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it ignores accuracy and evasion checks.

Title: Howl (move)

Howl (Japanese: とおぼえ Howl) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Howl, the user's Attack stat rises another stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Howl. Howl raises the user and its allies' Attack stats by one stage. Howl is now a sound-based move. As such, it cannot affect allies with the Ability Soundproof. However, Howl always affects the user even it has Soundproof. Howl cannot affect allies if they are behind a substitute unless the user has the Ability Infiltrator. However, it is not blocked by protection moves (including Max Guard and Crafty Shield). Howl raises the user's Attack by one stage. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Howl could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Howl could be seen as a move used by Boss Poochyena and Rockruff. Howl is the only variation of Defense Curl that hasn't been used in the animated series yet. Howl is the only sound-based move that cannot hit Pokémon behind a substitute.

Title: Dragon Claw (move)

Dragon Claw (Japanese: ドラゴンクロー Dragon Claw) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation III. TM02 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, as well as in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Dragon Claw inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Dragon Claw can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Dragon Dance, Dragon Rage, or DragonBreath was used in the previous turn. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Dragon Claw's PP was changed from 15 to 10 and it has an increased critical hit ratio. Dragon Claw inflicts damage. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Dragon Claw hits adjacent enemies, has a base PP of 20, and a base accuracy of 90%. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragon Claw is Garchomp's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 as Gabite and upgrading Bulldoze into it instead of Earthquake. The user viciously claws everything in the designated area twice. The first attack deals damage and pushes enemies. The second attack deals increased damage, in a range slightly larger than the designated area. When using a Dragon Rush combo with this move, increase the slow to enemies. At level 13, the move's damage increases. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Jessie told her Seviper to use Dragon Claw, but since Seviper cannot learn the move, it couldn't execute it. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Pocket Monsters XY: The Legend of the Pokémon Dragon King Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder

Title: Frenzy Plant (move)

Frenzy Plant (Japanese: ハードプラント Hard Plant) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. It is TM155 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM160 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Along with Blast Burn and Hydro Cannon, Frenzy Plant is one of the ultimate moves of its type. All fully evolved Grass-type first partner Pokémon can learn this move. Frenzy Plant inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. Unless this attack misses, the user will always have to recharge. Frenzy Plant can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. Various Move Tutors will teach Frenzy Plant to a fully evolved Grass-type first partner Pokémon. From Generation III to VII, the Pokémon also needs a maximized friendship rating. The Move Tutors are: HGSS: an elderly man in the Move Deleter/Move Reminder's house in Blackthorn City. B2W2: a man outside the Pokémon World Tournament building. XY: a man in the southwestern house in Snowbelle City. ORAS: a man in the southeast of Mauville City's first floor. SMUSUM: a man on the second level of Hau'oli City's mall. Frenzy Plant inflicts damage. If the move hits the target successfully, the user is inflicted with the recoil status condition for 1 turn (prior to Gates to Infinity, this move inflicted the Paused status condition), preventing them from acting on the next turn. Since Frenzy Plant is exclusively a tutor move in main series, it is taught differently in Mystery Dungeon: In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Venusaur will attempt to learn Frenzy Plant at level 99 if it has at least 333 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after reaching level 99, Frenzy Plant can be relearned at the Gulpin Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, an eligible Pokémon will attempt to learn Frenzy Plant at level 72 if it has at least 300 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after level 72, Frenzy Plant can be relearned at Electivire Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, Serperior can be taught Frenzy Plant via special TM. The TM is obtained once Pokémon Paradise reaches Perfect Rank. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the move can be taught at Hawlucha's Slam School by paying 11,000 In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, the move can be taught at Gulpin Link Shop after completing the main story. In the American and European region releases of Pokémon Colosseum, this move was erroneously named Solid Plant, which is more aligned with its original Japanese name. Frenzy Plant is tied with Chloroblast for the highest base power of all Grass-type attacks, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Bloom Doom based on Frenzy Plant has the highest base power of all Grass-type moves.

Title: Bulk Up (move)

Bulk Up (Japanese: ビルドアップ Build Up) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced in Generation III. TM08 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM30 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Bulk Up raises the user's Attack stat and Defense stat by one stage each. If powered up by a Fightinium Z, the user's Attack stat is raised by another stage. Bulk Up's PP has been reduced to 10, and it raises the user's offensive and defensive stats for four turns. Bulk Up raises the user's Attack and Defense by one stage. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Bulk Up could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Bulk Up could be seen as a move used by Boss Gurdurr. Bulk Up is Machamp's second move as Machop. The user buffs themselves for 3 seconds increasing their attack by 15%. The user is unstoppable for the duration and gains a small amount of attack speed and movement speed. The user’s next basic attack is empowered. After evolving into Machoke at level 5, this move is replaced by either Dynamic Punch or Submission. This move's name is the same as the category of Grimmsnarl.

Title: Bounce (move)

Bounce (Japanese: とびはねる Bounce) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM52 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. The user bounces up high on the first turn, avoiding most moves. On the second turn, the user slams down onto the target, inflicting damage with a 30% chance of paralyzing it. The user is able to be hit by Gust, Twister, Thunder, and Sky Uppercut during the semi-invulnerable turn of Bounce, and will receive double damage from Gust and Twister. The user may also be hit during the semi-invulnerable turn if it was previously targeted by Lock-On or Mind Reader. Wild Pokémon can be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Bounce. A Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable stage of Bounce can also be hit if it is attacked by a Pokémon with No Guard, or has No Guard itself. If the user is hit by Gust or Twister during the semi-invulnerable turn, the move's power will be doubled rather than the damage dealt (resulting in virtually the same effect). Pokémon can no longer be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Bounce. If a Power Herb is held by the user, Bounce can be executed in one turn. Bounce can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If the user is hit by Gust or Twister during the semi-invulnerable turn, the damage dealt will be doubled rather than the move's power (resulting in virtually the same effect). Hurricane can hit during the semi-invulnerable stage of Bounce. Smack Down can hit during the semi-invulnerable stage of bounce, and will ground the user if it connects. Thousand Arrows can hit during the semi-vulnerable stage of Bounce. The user will then be knocked down in the same turn after being hit. The user cannot be targeted while airborne, granting full immunity to attacks until the user lands. Hurricane, Gust, Twister, and Thunder cannot hit a target that is airborne. Bounce gives the user the bouncing status on the first turn. While the user is in the air, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves (except moves such as Gust, Thunder, Twister and Sky Uppercut). Projectiles will also pass the user as if their tile was empty. On the second turn, the user attacks the enemy in front, possibly inflicting paralysis. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. Due to it being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Bounce cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. While the user is bouncing, the following situations will cancel their use of this move: The user's team is attacked by an opponent's sync move. The user's team performs a unity attack in a co-op battle. The user is attacked by an opponent's max move. (The user's ally being attacked by an opponent's max move does not count.) Even if Bounce is not fully executed, MP will still be deducted from it. Just like in the core series, the full execution of this move is about two-actions long. Only the bouncing half of this move will reduce the user's sync-move countdown by one—not the attacking half. If Bounce's user would take damage from weather or heal from their skill or status change, they only do so after they begin bouncing—not after this move's attack. These triggers happen while the set time of the user's bouncing passes. If the user's bouncing is the last action before their team's sync moves are ready and if any of these triggers happen, the sync moves of the user's allies will only be ready after the trigger(s) end. This sometimes results in a sync move of the user's team only being ready after the user stops bouncing and attacks. Initial wording: The user begins bouncing. After a set time, the user stops bouncing and attacks. Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The user begins bouncing. After a set time, the user stops bouncing and attacks. Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. No other actions can be taken while bouncing. Most moves used by opponents will not hit the user while it is bouncing. If the user is hit by a sync move while bouncing, it will stop bouncing. Description prior to Version 2.11.0 (from July 28, 2021): ...If the user is hit by a sync move while bouncing, it will stop bouncing. Description prior to Version 2.23.5 (from August 8, 2022): ...If the user is hit by a sync move or max move while bouncing, it will stop bouncing. In With a Spoink in Your Step II, Tate and Liza's two Spoink were mentioned to know Bounce, but they were never seen using the move. In All About Arceus VIII, Gold told his Politoed, Polibo, to use Bounce, but the move was executed off-panel. Bounce is the only Flying-type move that can cause paralysis. Despite being a Flying-type move, no Flying-type Pokémon could learn Bounce in its debut generation.

Title: Mud Shot (move)

Mud Shot (Japanese: マッドショット Mud Shot) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation III. Mud Shot inflicts damage and then lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage. Mud Shot can also be used as part of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining an extra appeal point if the move Sandstorm was used in the prior turn. Mud Shot inflicts damage and lowers the enemy's Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In Shock!! Chairman Rose's Plan, Sordward commanded his Golisopod to use Mud Shot, but the move was executed off-panel. In Generation III, Secret Power has the same animation as Mud Shot if used in a sandy terrain. From Generation V onwards, Secret Power has the same animation as Mud Shot if used in puddles. Mud Shot is the only variation of Icy Wind not to hit both opponents in a Double Battle.

Title: Poison Tail (move)

Poison Tail (Japanese: ポイズンテール Poison Tail) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation V, it was the signature move of Seviper, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM026 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Poison Tail deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It has a 10% chance of poisoning the target. Poison Tail can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Poison Tail inflicts damage and may leave the target poisoned. The move has increased critical-hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers series). Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Critical hits land more easily. Has a very small chance of leaving the target poisoned. Goomy and Sliggoo cannot learn Poison Tail through TM in Generation IX, despite learning it through breeding in Generations VI and VII.

Title: Covet (move)

Covet (Japanese: ほしがる Covet) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation III. Covet inflicts damage and steals the target's held item if it is holding any. If the target is not holding an item or the user is already holding an item, Covet cannot steal an item. Even if the user faints when using Covet (such as due to the target's Rough Skin), it still steals the target's held item. Covet cannot steal an item if the target has the Sticky Hold Ability, or if it hits a Pokémon's substitute. Held e-Reader Berries and Mail cannot be stolen. Covet can permanently steal items from both wild Pokémon and Trainer's Pokémon; however, wild Pokémon cannot steal the player's Pokémon's held items. In Link Battles, battle facilities (except the Battle Pyramid), and Secret Bases, stolen items are returned at the end of the battle (or the end of the challenge in the case of the Battle Pike). In Pokémon Colosseum and XD, when used by opponents, Covet does not permanently steal items. Covet now makes contact. If a Trainer's Pokémon steals an item from the player, it will be returned at the end of the battle. Items cannot be stolen from Pokémon with the Ability Multitype. A held Griseous Orb cannot be stolen. If the target's consumable held item is triggered by Covet (such as a Chilan Berry or Focus Sash), it will be consumed before it can be stolen. If the user faints when using Covet (such as due to the target's Rough Skin or Rocky Helmet), it cannot steal the target's held item. If Covet causes a Pokémon with the Sticky Hold Ability to faint, it can now steal its held item. Covet no longer steals a Trainer's Pokémon's items permanently; however, a wild Pokémon's item is still permanently stolen by the player. Covet can now steal a held Griseous Orb as long as neither the user nor the target is Giratina. Plates cannot be stolen if either the user or the target is Arceus (Multitype has no effect on Covet), and Drives cannot be stolen if either the user or the target is Genesect. Covet cannot steal a Mega Stone or Orb if either the user or the target could use it to Mega Evolve or undergo Primal Reversion, a Z-Crystal from any Pokémon, a memory if either the user or the target is Silvally, the Rusted Sword if either the user or the target is Zacian, the Rusted Shield if either the user or the target is Zamazenta, or a Booster Energy if either the user or the target is a Paradox Pokémon. If Covet's type is changed to Electric or Ice and the target is holding a Cell Battery or Snowball, respectively, the target's held item will activate and be consumed after Covet deals damage. Covet can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Bestow, Fling and Present to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. When used in a Max Raid Battle, no matter if the target is the raid boss or one of the player's own teammates, Covet fails entirely, without dealing damage. Covet deals damage and steals the enemy's held item if the user isn't holding one. If the target faints, Covet will not steal the held item (though the item will fall on the floor). In Super Mystery Dungeon, if an enemy successfully steals an item from the player, they will warp and become Terrified, therefore running away with the stolen item. In Pokémon UNITE, Covet is Greedent's second move. It is obtained by evolving from Skwovet at level 5 and upgrading Defense Curl into it instead of Stuff Cheeks. The user runs with all its might, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon it hits and throwing them. The user then becomes resistant to hindrances for a short time. While running, the user drops Berries from its body. If the user eats a dropped Berry, its movement speed is increased for a short time. The more Berries the user eats, the more its movement is increased. In addition, Tackle, Belch or Bullet seed can also be used while the user is running. Using this move will reset the cooldown of Tackle or Belch. At level 11, the frequency of Oran Berries and the move's damage are increased.

Title: Volt Tackle (move)

Volt Tackle redirects here. For the song titled after this move, see Volt Tackle (song). Volt Tackle (Japanese: ボルテッカー Volteccer) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation III. It is the signature move of Pikachu's evolutionary line. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Catastropika by Pikachu holding Pikanium Z. Volt Tackle inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ⅓ of the damage done to the target. Volt Tackle can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Charge was used in the previous turn. Volt Tackle is now a physical move and also now has a 10% chance of paralyzing the target. Volt Tackle can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. Volt Tackle's PP has been reduced to 5. It has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target for three turns, and it will also cure the user of drowsiness. When Mega Raichu X uses Volt Tackle, its Attack stat increases. From Pokémon Emerald onward, if either parent of a baby Pichu holds a Light Ball when the Egg is produced, the Pichu will know Volt Tackle when it hatches. However, Volt Tackle is not an Egg Move, and cannot be passed down by simply breeding with a parent that knows the move. The only way for Pichu to hatch knowing Volt Tackle is for one of the parents to hold a Light Ball. Volt Tackle can't be passed to another Pokémon with a Mirror Herb in a picnic, nor at the Nursery. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, a woman with three Pikachu in Konikoni City can teach Pikachu the move Volt Tackle after she gives the player Pikanium Z. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, a gentleman at Hano Grand Resort can teach Pikachu this move after the player receives Pikanium Z as the reward from a celebrity Pikachu, Chuuster (Japanese: チュウジロウ Chujirō), for defeating Reporter Rita. An Alolan Raichu that knew the move Volt Tackle in Generation VII and transferred in via Pokémon Bank and Pokémon HOME can be retaught the move using the Pokémon HOME move reminder functionality. This is the only way for Alolan Raichu to know the move in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. An Alolan Raichu knowing the move is blocked from online trades and can not be used in Battle Stadium. Volt Tackle deals damage and the user receives recoil damage. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, the recoil damage is equal to ⅛ of the user's maximum HP. From Gates to Infinity onward, Volt Tackle may now cause paralysis and the recoil damage is instead 20% of the user's max HP. Since Volt Tackle can only be learnt as an Egg Move in the core series games, it is taught differently in the Mystery Dungeon games: In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, Pichu can learn Volt Tackle at level 50 if it has at least 333 IQ points (7.5 stars). If this requirement is not met until after reaching level 50, Volt Tackle can be relearned at the Gulpin Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, where Egg Moves are commonly present, Pichu that hatch from Eggs may know Volt Tackle. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, Pichu, Pikachu, and Raichu can learn Volt Tackle by TM. The TM is obtained once Paradise reaches Perfect Rank. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Pichu, Pikachu, and Raichu can learn Volt Tackle at Hawlucha's Slam School by paying 10,000. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, Pichu, Pikachu, and Raichu can learn Volt Tackle at the Gulpin Link Shop by paying 11,000, after completing the main story. In Pokémon GO, Volt Tackle is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 5, 2024. Since Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Volt Tackle has been Pikachu's Final Smash. When used, instead of charging forward while covered in electricity, Pikachu will be enveloped by a blue ball of electricity and flies around. The ball does major damage and can even pass through platforms, though it is very hard to control. Despite it taking damage from Volt Tackle in the core series, Pikachu takes no damage from the move when used in the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U, Volt Tackle is led by a smaller orb of light the player controls, making it easier to track. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the returning fighter Pichu also gains Volt Tackle as its Final Smash; like Pichu's other electrical moves, it deals damage to it after use. Damaging Pichu makes this version of Volt Tackle more accurate to the Pokemon games. Like many other Final Smashes in Ultimate, Volt Tackle has been made fully automatic and faster, making it easier to execute and allowing players to return to fighting faster. "Pikachu, transformed into a ball of light that can slam into foes. It can also fly to chase down those who try to jump out of range. Sparks get stronger when you press the attack button. However, its increased inertia makes midair movement tough. If you get carried away flying, the effect will end, and you'll destroy yourself. Be careful it doesn't happen to you." This buddy move was known as B Volt Tackle prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon UNITE, Volt Tackle is Pikachu's second move obtained at level 6 by upgrading Electroweb into it instead of Thunderbolt. The user charges the targeted enemy, becoming unstoppable, damaging and throwing the target in the air for 1.4s. At level 13, its cooldown is reduced by 2s. Volt Tackle's Japanese name, ボルテッカー Volteccer, comes from an attack used by Pulseman, the protagonist of the Game Freak game of the same name. Both attacks are in reference to Tekkaman, whose signature attack is called Voltekka. In the Pokémon Adventures manga, when Volt Tackle first appeared in The Last Battle XIV, albeit in a much different fashion than most other canons, Gold named it Super Rising Thunder. In a future round, however, the move has its core series name and, unlike before, it is depicted more like a physical move than a special one.

Title: Magical Leaf (move)

Magical Leaf (Japanese: マジカルリーフ Magical Leaf) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM10 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM033 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Magical Leaf inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Magical Leaf can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Growth was used in the previous turn. In Pokémon GO, Magical Leaf is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 26, 2022. When used in very long grass in Generation III, Secret Power has the animation of Magical Leaf.

Title: Water Sport (move)

Water Sport (Japanese: みずあそび Water Game) is a non-damaging Water-type move introduced in Generation III. Water Sport reduces the base power of Fire-type moves by 50% on both sides in battle. The effects last until the user switches out. Water Sport can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Mud Sport, Refresh, and Water Gun to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 4 bonus appeal points if Mud Sport or Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Water Sport now reduces the base power of Fire-type moves by 67% (approximated as a factor of 1352/4096) on both sides in battle. Water Sport is now active for five turns, even if the user switches out. Water Sport can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Waterium Z into Z-Water Sport, the user's Special Defense stat rises one stage. Water Sport changes the floor status to Water Sport, which reduces the damage of Fire-type moves. In the Rescue Team and Explorers series, Water Sport lasts for 10-11 turns and halves damage taken from Fire-type moves. From Gates to Infinity, the status lasts 20 turns and weakens Fire-type moves by 30%. In Generation III, the status screen erroneously states that the move has 100% accuracy, even though it targets the field as a whole (thus it ignores accuracy and evasion checks).

Title: Calm Mind (move)

Calm Mind (Japanese: めいそう Meditation) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. TM04 from Generation III to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM33 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Calm Mind raises the user's Special Attack and Special Defense stats by one stage each. Calm Mind can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Confusion, Dream Eater, Future Sight, Light Screen, Luster Purge, Meditate, Mist Ball, Psybeam, Psychic, Psycho Boost, Psywave, and Reflect to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Baton Pass and Stored Power to give user an extra three appeal points if they are used in the next turn. If powered up by Psychium Z, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Calm Mind's PP has been reduced to 10, and it raises the user's offensive and defensive stats for four turns. Calm Mind raises the user's Sp. Attack and Sp. Defense by one stage each. Calm Mind appears as one of Gardevoir's Pokémon moves. Gardevoir charges up energy while meditating, powering up Stored Power depending on how many times Calm Mind was used, at a maximum of four shockwaves. Calm Mind also can be cancelled into Energy Ball, Dazzling Gleam, Psychic, and Teleport. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Calm Mind could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Calm Mind could be seen as a move used by Boss Lugia. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Raises the user's Sp. Atk and Sp. Def. In Pokémon UNITE, Calm Mind is Sylveon's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Baby-Doll Eyes into it instead of Draining Kiss. The user quietly focuses their mind and calms their spirit, increasing movement speed, Sp. Attack by 40% and Sp. Defense by 10% for a short time. At level 12, up to 3s after using this move, if the user is hit by an enemy's move, the damage is completely nullified and the user is granted a shield. In Leaping Past Lopunny, Buck told his Claydol to use Calm Mind, but the move was executed off-panel.

Title: Leaf Blade (move)

Leaf Blade (Japanese: リーフブレード Leaf Blade) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation III. Prior to Generation IV, it was the signature move of Grovyle and Sceptile. It was TR50 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Leaf Blade inflicts damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It has a base power of 70 in this generation. Leaf Blade's base power increased from 70 to 90. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Leaf Blade can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Leaf Blade's PP has been reduced to 10, and its power has been lowered to 85. Leaf Blade deals damage. This move has an increased critical hit ratio (50% in the Rescue Team series, 30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Prior to June 22, 2023, this sync move had no additional effect. Virizion was revealed to know Leaf Blade on the official website, but it was never shown using the move. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom In the Brazilian Portuguese dub of Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire, from Clamperl of Wisdom to From Cradle to Save, Leaf Blade is referred to as either Folha Navalha or some slight variation of it, a name that had been present in the Brazilian dub since Enter the Dragonite as the national name for Razor Leaf. Interestingly, Leaf Blade is referred to as Lâmina de Folha, its most fitting, and now official, name, from its animated series debut to forty-seven episodes later. It is currently unknown why this name would disappear from the dub until Odd Pokémon Out!.

Title: Dragon Dance (move)

If you were looking for the skill in Pokémon Shuffle, see Skill (Shuffle) → Dancing Dragons. Dragon Dance (Japanese: りゅうのまい Dragon Dance) is a non-damaging Dragon-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TR51 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM100 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Dragon Dance raises the user's Attack stat and Speed stat by one stage each. If powered up by a Dragonium Z into Z-Dragon Dance, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Dragon Dance can be used as the first move of a Pokémon Contest combination, causing Dragon Claw, Dragon Rage, and DragonBreath to score double the normal appeal if used in the next turn. It can also be used to finish a combination, with the user gaining 1 bonus appeal point if Dragon Rage or DragonBreath was used in the previous turn. Dragon Dance raises the user's Attack and Travel Speed by one stage each. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Dragon Dance could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Dragon Dance could be seen as a move used by Boss Dragonite. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragon Dance is Dragonite's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Dragonair at level 5 and upgrading Twister into it instead of Extreme Speed. The user dashes in a designated direction, alternating each use between a left arc, right arc and a direct dash. After using this move, the move grants a buff increasing attack speed of the next 3 basic attacks, increasing movement speed, increasing Attack by 8% (capping at 24%), as well as increasing the stage of Hyper Beam. This buff stacks up to 3 times, and the duration is reset to full on reuse. All stacks are removed after a few seconds. Basic attacks reduce the cooldown of this ability by 1s. At level 11, the move further increases the user's movement speed if there are enemies nearby when the dance ends. Before Clangorous Soul was introduced in Generation VIII, this move was the only Dragon-type status move.

Title: Rock Blast (move)

Rock Blast (Japanese: ロックブラスト Rock Blast) is a damage-dealing Rock-type multistrike move introduced in Generation III. It was TM54 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM076 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Rock Blast inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a 12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Rock Blast may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Rock Blast unless it misses. Rock Blast's accuracy increased from 80% to 90%. There is now a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 10% base miss chance) is now 69.8. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor, each strike will activate it. Pokémon with Bulletproof are immune to Rock Blast. Each strike will now also activate Stamina. Rock Blast will always hit 5 times. When used as a Plus Move, it will always hit 6 times. Rock Blast inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. The move's critical-hit rate is reduced (1% in the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pokémon GO, Rock Blast is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Rock Blast is the only Rock-type multistrike move.

Title: Shock Wave (move)

Shock Wave (Japanese: でんげきは Electrical Shock Wave) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation III. It was TM34 in Generation III, Generation IV, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Shock Wave inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Shock Wave can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 2 bonus appeal points if Charge was used in the previous turn. It is also part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. In Rayquaza Redemption I, Ruby's Kirlia, Rara, was revealed to know Shock Wave via Imprison, but she has never been shown using the move.

Title: Water Pulse (move)

Water Pulse (Japanese: みずのはどう Water Pulse) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation III. TM03 in Generations III and IV and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Water Pulse inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of confusing the target. It can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Water Pulse's power is increased by 50% when used by Pokémon with the Ability Mega Launcher. Water Pulse can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 3 bonus appeal points if Rain Dance was used in the previous turn. Water Pulse cannot confuse the target. Instead, it bypasses accuracy and evasion checks to always hit. Water Pulse deals damage and may leave the target confused. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of leaving the target confused. In Pokémon UNITE, Water Pulse is Azumarill's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Bubble into it instead of Play Rough. The move shoots a pulsing blast of water in front of the user. When the blast of water hits an enemy, decrease their movement speed for 2s and deal damage to all enemies in an area of effect around the initial target. The blast of water then automatically bounces to another target if one is available. Including the first target, the blast of water can bounce between up to three targets consecutively, and each hit behaves in the same way as the first. While the blast of water is traveling, the user can perform a short rolling dash in a designated direction. At level 13, the maximum number of targets that the blast of water can bounce between is increased by 2. In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Jessie told her Seviper to use Water Pulse, but since Seviper cannot learn the move, it couldn't execute it. In the preview for the unaired AG101, a Whiscash is seen using Water Pulse. In Analysis Versus Passion!, Sawyer told his Clawitzer to use Water Pulse, but it was unable to execute the move before Ash's Pikachu attacked it with Electro Ball. Wallace's Seaking, Charles, was revealed to know Water Pulse on the official website, but he has never been shown using the move. From Generation III onwards, Secret Power has the animation of Water Pulse if used on water. Water Pulse is the only Water-type move capable of inflicting confusion.

Title: Doom Desire (move)

Doom Desire (Japanese: はめつのねがい Doom Desire) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation III. It is the signature move of Jirachi. On the turn Doom Desire is selected, this attack will do nothing other than state that the user has chosen Doom Desire as its destiny. Two turns later, Doom Desire will do damage against the target. The damage dealt uses the Attack stat of the user and Defense stat of the target at the time of move selection (not at the time the attack actually hits; if the target is switched out, the attack will hit its replacement but the damage is based on the original target Pokémon). Damage dealt by Doom Desire does not have a type; it is not affected by type effectiveness, does not receive STAB, and can hit Pokémon with Wonder Guard. Doom Desire cannot land a critical hit. Doom Desire is not affected by protection moves or Endure. A Pokémon holding a Focus Band can survive Doom Desire. Doom Desire fails when used if the target is already set to be hit by Future Sight or a prior-selected Doom Desire. Doom Desire can hit the Pokémon that used the move. If Doom Desire misses, the miss will not occur until the third turn, and the game will display that the move "failed" rather than "missed". In Double Battles, if the intended target has already fainted by the time the attack is foreseen such that there is no target, Doom Desire will redirect the same as other moves do (e.g., target the other opponent instead). If there is no target at the targeted slot by the time the attack is due, Doom Desire will fail without further notice. Doom Desire has a base power of 120 and an accuracy of 85. Same as Generation III, but its damage is calculated using the user's Special Attack stat and the target's Special Defense instead. Its damage is not increased by Life Orb. A Pokémon holding a Focus Sash can survive Doom Desire. Doom Desire's power changed from 120 to 140, and its accuracy changed from 85% to 100%. Doom Desire now calculates its damage when it hits rather than when it is selected. Doom Desire uses the user's Special Attack and the hit Pokémon's Special Defense at the time damage is dealt. It now inflicts damage as a Steel-type move; therefore, it is affected by type effectiveness, can receive STAB, and will not necessarily hit through Wonder Guard. If the user has Normalize or was affected by Electrify when Doom Desire hits, it hits as a Normal- or Electric-type move respectively (regardless of whether this was the case when the move was used); however, it cannot be redirected by Lightning Rod even if it is an Electric-type move. Doom Desire can now land a critical hit. In battles with multiple opponents, Doom Desire may now target a slot without an active Pokémon. (If a Pokémon occupies the selected slot by the time the attack is due, Doom Desire will attack as intended.) If there is no target at the targeted slot by the time the attack is due, Doom Desire will still fail without further notice. A Pokémon can now endure Doom Desire with Endure or Sturdy, in addition to the Focus Sash and Focus Band. Doom Desire disappears with no message if it would hit the Pokémon that used the move. In Versions 1.0 to 1.3.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Doom Desire could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 2.0.1, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In the Rescue Team, Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Doom Desire is a status move which gives the user the Set Damage status condition for 3-4 turns. This status causes all of user's attacks to deal 35 / 30 damage, regardless of other multipliers. From Super Mystery Dungeon, Doom Desire is a damage-dealing move, which gives the user the Doom Desire status condition which lets the user charge the move for one turn. The user then unleashes the move on the next turn. While Doom Desire cannot be used directly by any sync pair, Tate (Summer 2023) & Jirachi can activate it after every other move with their skill 2 P-Moves: Doom Desire. It is treated as a Steel-type special move. A Corkscrew Crash based on Doom Desire and Searing Sunraze Smash have the highest base power of all Steel-type moves.

Title: Psycho Boost (move)

Psycho Boost (Japanese: サイコブースト Psycho Boost) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation III. It is the signature move of Deoxys. Psycho Boost inflicts damage and lowers the user's Special Attack stat by two stages. Psycho Boost can be used as the second move of a Pokémon Contest combination, with the user gaining 6 bonus appeal points if Calm Mind was used in the previous turn. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Psycho Boost could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Psycho Boost deals damage. The user's Special Attack is then decreased by two stages. In Pokémon GO, Psycho Boost is a Charged Attack that has been available since October 1, 2018. Sygna Suit Steven & Deoxys's passive skill Downside Up makes this move boost their Sp. Atk by two stat ranks after use, instead of lowering it. Sygna Suit Steven & Deoxys have the passive skill Expanded Sync in Attack Forme, which makes their sync move target all opponents. Psycho Boost has the same description texts as Overheat. This move is the last Generation III move in index number order. Unlike other similar moves, the power of Psycho Boost was not lowered to 130 in Generation VI. As Deoxys is unobtainable in Pokémon Sword and Shield, the only Pokémon that can legally know the move in those games is a purified Lugia transferred from Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. However, the move cannot be selected in battle, making the move unusable in Generation VIII until the release of Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, where the only Pokémon that can legally know the move is Deoxys as a result of movesets being altered in Pokémon HOME. A Shattered Psyche based on Psycho Boost or Prismatic Laser has the highest base power of all Psychic-type moves.

Title: Roost (move)

Roost (Japanese: はねやすめ Feather Rest) is a non-damaging Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM51 in Generation IV and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, TM19 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and TM50 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Roost restores up to 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded down. If a Flying-type Pokémon successfully uses Roost, until the end of the turn, its Flying type is ignored when it is hit by attacks. If the Pokémon has another type, only that type is considered; if the Pokémon is a pure Flying type, all attacks will be normally effective against it. Roost now restores 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded up. If a Flying-type Pokémon successfully uses Roost, it will now lose its Flying type until the end of the turn: If a dual-type Pokémon with Flying as one of its types uses Roost, it will lose its Flying type until the end of the turn (but will not have it replaced with the Normal type). If a pure Flying-type Pokémon successfully uses Roost, it will become Normal-type until the end of the turn. If a Pokémon is a Fire/Flying type that lost its Fire type due to Burn Up, using Roost causes it to become typeless until the end of the turn. If a pure Flying-type Pokémon that has been affected by Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat uses Roost, its Flying type will be replaced by Normal, in addition to retaining its Grass or Ghost type addition. If a Pokémon is ungrounded only due to its Flying type, successfully using Roost will make it grounded until the end of the turn (and therefore susceptible to effects such as terrain and Rototiller). If powered up by a Flyinium Z into Z-Roost, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Roost restores a portion of the user's HP, with the percentage (of the user's maximum HP) varying each game. If the user is part-Flying-type, it loses that type for the rest of the turn. This move is affected by Snatch. The move cannot be used on air tiles. Roost is the first Generation IV move in index number order.

Title: Gravity (move)

Gravity (Japanese: じゅうりょく Gravity) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM178 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Gravity causes the field to undergo intense gravity. This effect lasts 5 turns. It fails if used when Gravity is in effect. During intense gravity, the accuracy of all moves (except OHKO moves) is multiplied by 5/3 in Generation IV or 6840/4096 (approximately 1.67) in Generation V onward. Intense gravity causes all Pokémon on the field to become grounded. Grounded Pokémon lose their immunity to Ground-type moves due to their Flying type, Levitate Ability, effects of Magnet Rise or Telekinesis, or their held Air Balloon. Grounded Pokémon are now also vulnerable to Arena Trap and entry hazards; Poison-type Pokémon that are usually airborne will remove Toxic Spikes when switched in during the effects of Gravity. Grounded Pokémon also become affected by terrains. Intense gravity also prevents Pokémon from using the moves Bounce, Fly, Flying Press, High Jump Kick, Jump Kick, Magnet Rise, Sky Drop, Splash and Telekinesis. If a Pokémon is in the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly or Bounce when Gravity is used, that move is canceled immediately. If a Pokémon has no other usable moves besides the moves blocked by Gravity, it will use Struggle. Using Grav Apple under intense gravity has 50% increased power. In Generation V only, due to a glitch, if Gravity is used while two Pokémon are in the semi-invulnerable state of Sky Drop, Gravity will bring the user of Sky Drop down, but the target of Sky Drop will be stuck unable to move in the semi-invulnerable state until the effect of Gravity ends, the user of Sky Drop switches out or is knocked out, or the Pokémon affected by Sky Drop is knocked out. This can only occur in Double and Triple Battles. In later generations, both the user and the target are properly brought down. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Gravity, the user's Special Attack stat is raised by one stage. Gravity intensifies the dungeon's gravity which causes Flying-type Pokémon and those with Levitate to become grounded, losing their immunity to Ground-type moves. This effect also prevents the use of Bounce, Fly, Splash, Jump Kick, High Jump Kick and Magnet Rise, bringing Pokémon out of Fly and Bounce, and ending Magnet Rise's effect early. From Super Mystery Dungeon, the floor condition now increases the accuracy of moves like in the core series games, as well as disabling Telekinesis, Sky Drop and Flying Press, on top of the other moves. Additionally, Pokémon with flying mobility lose it. Although Orbeetle's G-Max Move, G-Max Gravitas, replicates the effects of Gravity, it is unable to learn the move.

Title: Miracle Eye (move)

Miracle Eye (Japanese: ミラクルアイ Miracle Eye) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. Miracle Eye causes accuracy checks against the target to ignore changes to the target's evasion stat stages if its evasion stat stage is greater than 0. If Miracle Eye's target is a Dark-type Pokémon, it also removes the target's immunity to Psychic-type moves. Miracle Eye's effect ends when the target switches out. Miracle Eye bypasses accuracy checks to always hit its target, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Miracle Eye will now fail if used against a Pokémon already under its effect. Miracle Eye can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing a one-hit knockout move to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Miracle Eye, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Miracle Eye targets the enemy in front and resets any positive evasion stat changes to 0. If the target is a Dark-type, it will also inflict the Miracle Eye status condition on them, removing their immunity to Psychic-type moves. This status condition lasts for the duration of the floor. In Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, the move description erroneously states that using Miracle Eye allows the user to hit a Ghost type with any type of move, most likely as result of copying it over from Foresight and Odor Sleuth, which is the effect of these moves. Miracle Eye may be a reference to nazar charms with eye-pattern motifs or the Hamsa, both used to ward off the "evil eye". Miracle Eye neutralises the Dark-type's (known in Japanese as the "Evil-type") immunity to Psychic-type moves, which may allude to spiritual talismans warding off the type's evil associations. Miracle Eye is the only move that removes the Dark-type's immunity to Psychic-type moves.

Title: Hammer Arm (move)

Hammer Arm (Japanese: アームハンマー Arm Hammer) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. Hammer Arm inflicts damage and lowers the user's Speed by one stage. Hammer Arm inflicts damage and reduces the user's Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the user's Speed. Hammer Arm has the same description text as Ice Hammer.

Title: Gyro Ball (move)

Gyro Ball (Japanese: ジャイロボール Gyro Ball) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is: TM74 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Gyro Ball inflicts more damage the slower the user is compared to the target. Therefore, the larger the relative difference between the user's and target's Speed stat, the greater the damage. The base power is calculated by the following formula: BasePower=min(150,25×CurrentSpeedtargetCurrentSpeeduser+1) The Speed values used in the calculation take all modifiers into account (including stat stages, paralysis, held items such as the Iron Ball, and Abilities such as Slush Rush). Effects that only modify movement order without affecting Speed (such as Trick Room and Stall) have no effect on Gyro Ball. If the user of Gyro Ball has a Speed stat that rounds down to 0, the stat will be treated as 1 in the power formula, to avoid having to divide by 0. The maximum base power that can be reached with Gyro Ball is 150, if the target's Speed is at least 5.96 times the user's Speed. If the user of Gyro Ball has a Speed stat that rounds down to 0, the move's power is set to 1, entirely ignoring the above formula. Gyro Ball inflicts damage based on Travel Speed. In the Explorers series, the final damage is doubled if the user is suffering from Half Speed status condition. In Gates to Infinity, the move deals 50% more damage if the user has a lower Travel Speed than the target. Despite the move's description, the effect does not gain in intensity. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, the Speed stat is used for damage calculation instead. In Pokémon GO, Gyro Ball is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Its power is doubled if the target's Speed has risen. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power is doubled when the target's Speed is raised. This move might be a reference to the Gyroball, a rare type of baseball pitch developed in Japan that uses a unique spinning motion to minimize horizontal and vertical break. Its Steel type likely alludes to its name, which is derived from the gyroscope, a metal device that uses the spin of its rings to stabilize itself in space. In Pokémon Conquest, Gyro Ball will always do 1 damage if the user is faster than the target. This happens due to how the move's damage is calculated: the target's Speed stat is divided by the user's, and this quotient is rounded down to use as a damage multiplier. A faster user than the target will give a multiplier of 0, causing the move's damage to become 0, finally adjusted to a minimum of 1.

Title: Healing Wish (move)

Healing Wish (Japanese: いやしのねがい Healing Wish) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. Healing Wish causes the user to faint, then immediately switches in the new Pokémon. The new Pokémon's HP is restored and it is cured of any status conditions upon being sent out. Healing Wish will fail if its Trainer has no other conscious Pokémon in their party or if used by a wild Pokémon. The receiving Pokémon is now sent out at the end of the turn rather than immediately sending it out. If powered up with a Psychium Z into Z-Healing Wish, the move will gain no additional effects. If the Pokémon sent out to replace the user already has full health and no status condition, Healing Wish's effect will not activate until a Pokémon is placed in that position (either by switching in or using Ally Switch). A pending Healing Wish will not activate if a Pokémon already in that position loses HP or gains a status condition; it will only activate when a new Pokémon is placed in that position. Each position can only have a single instance of Healing Wish pending (using it multiple times does not stack). Healing Wish can stack with Lunar Dance. If used in a Max Raid Battle or Tera Raid Battle, Healing Wish fails, and the user does not faint. Healing Wish targets teammates in the same room and fully restores their HP and any bad status conditions. The user's HP is then reduced to 1.

Title: Brine (move)

Brine (Japanese: しおみず Brine) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM55 in Generation IV and Generation VIII, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Brine inflicts damage, and its power doubles to 130 when the target is at or below 50% health. Brine deals double damage if the target's HP is at half or below. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The power is doubled if the target's HP is at half or below. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power is doubled when the target's remaining HP is at half or below. Brine's effect of becoming stronger when the opponent is low on HP might be inspired by the idiom rubbing salt into the wound, meaning to make a bad situation even worse. Brine is the only Water-type move introduced in Generation IV that doesn't have the word "aqua" in its name.

Title: Natural Gift (move)

Natural Gift (Japanese: しぜんのめぐみ Nature's Blessing) is a Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM83 in Generation IV. Natural Gift inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Natural Gift's power and type vary depending on the user's held Berry. Using Natural Gift consumes the held Berry, even if the move fails due to accuracy miss. The move will fail if the user is not holding a Berry, or if it cannot use its held Berry (due to Klutz, Magic Room, or Embargo). Natural Gift is unaffected by Normalize, Pixilate, Refrigerate, and Aerilate. However, it is affected by Ion Deluge (if the move would be Normal-type) and Electrify. If a Red Card forces the user to leave the battlefield, the Berry is not consumed. If Powder prevents the move from being executed, the Berry is not consumed. If Natural Gift cannot be fully executed due to heavy rain (for the Fire-type damage) or extremely harsh sunlight (for the Water-type damage), the Berry is not consumed. Consuming a berry via Natural Gift does not interact with Unnerve, Cheek Pouch, or Belch. The type and power of Natural Gift vary as follows. Natural Gift deals damage. The move's type and power will change if it holds a Seed or a Berry, though unlike the core series games, it can be used without an item. The item will not be consumed. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, holding a food item will increase the power of the move as well as changing its type. Oddly, the Oran Berry causes the move to become Fairy type, which differs from previous Mystery Dungeon games as well as the core series games. For the Cram-o-matic, every Berry uses the same type as the type the Natural Gift gets converted to with that Berry, and its value correlates to Natural Gift's power in Generation VII: 2 Cram-o-matic points: 80 power, except damage-reducing Berries and Berries that may cause confusion 4 Cram-o-matic points: 80 power, only damage-reducing Berries and Berries that may cause confusion

Title: Feint (move)

If you were looking for the other feinting attack, see Feint Attack (move). Feint (Japanese: フェイント Feint) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. Feint inflicts damage but only strikes a target that has used Protect or Detect during that turn, lifting the effects of Protect or Detect for the remainder of the turn. Feint cannot remove the effects of protecting moves if it misses or does not affect the target (such as if the target is Ghost-type). Feint has an increased priority of +2, so is used after Protect or Detect, but before other increased priority attacks. Feint can now inflict damage even if the target has not used Protect or Detect, and its power has changed from 50 to 30. Despite being an increased priority move, Feint will lift the effects of Wide Guard and Quick Guard for the remainder of the turn only if they are used on an opposing team. Feint is not blocked by an opponent's Quick Guard, but it is blocked by an ally's if it targets an ally. Feint will now lift the effects of Quick Guard and Wide Guard when used on allies, and it is no longer blocked by an ally's Quick Guard. Feint hits a target even if it is protected by Mat Block, Spiky Shield, King's Shield, Baneful Bunker, Obstruct, Silk Trap, or Burning Bulwark and removes that protection for the rest of the turn. Additionally, the user of Feint does not suffer the negative effects of these moves. Feint hits a target even if it is protected by Max Guard but does not remove the protection. Feint removes Crafty Shield and Mat Block from the target's team. Feint inflicts damage, and can hit through the Protect status condition and ends it early. In Pokémon UNITE, Feint is Absol's first move and Cinderace's second move. Absol starts with the move. The user dashes in an arc, damaging any Pokémon hit. The move deals damage as if all hit Pokémon have 0 Defense, and bypasses shields. At level 5 it is replaced by either Night Slash or Pursuit. Cinderace can obtain the move by reaching level 8 and upgrading Low Sweep into it instead of Flame Charge. The user dodges, increasing their movement speed and becoming briefly invincible. At level 13, the next 3 basic attacks after dodging restore HP.

Title: Pluck (move)

Pluck (Japanese: ついばむ Pick) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM88 in Generation IV to Generation V, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Pluck inflicts damage. If the target is holding a Berry, the user will eat the Berry and gain its effect. Pluck will not eat the target's Berry if it hits its substitute. Pluck will not consume the Berry of a target that has the Ability Sticky Hold. Berries like Liechi or Sitrus Berries will be eaten by the attacker, regardless of them meeting their consumption requirement upon taking damage from Pluck. Pluck can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If the user has the Ability Klutz or is affected by Embargo, it will consume the target's held Berry without gaining its effect. Pluck will eat the target's Coba and Jaboca Berries before the Berry can activate. The user will now receive the effects of the target's held Berry even if it has the Ability Klutz or is affected by Embargo. The effect of a Coba or Jaboca Berry will now activate before the Berry can be eaten. Pluck deals damage and consumes the target's edible item, such as a Seed, Apple, Max Elixir or Gummi. If Pluck is used on any member of the player's team, the enemy will pick an item from the Bag. This move is affected by Muzzled status condition.

Title: Tailwind (move)

Tailwind (Japanese: おいかぜ Tailwind) is a non-damaging Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM113 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Tailwind doubles the Speed stat of the user and all other Pokémon in the user's party for three turns. If powered up by a Flyinium Z into Z-Tailwind, the user's critical-hit rate is increased by two stages. Tailwind raises the Travel Speed of the user and teammates in the same room by one stage. This move is affected by Snatch. Togekiss uses Tailwind to boost the user's speed and recover some health. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Tailwind could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Tailwind could be seen as a move used by Boss Tornadus.

Title: Acupressure (move)

Acupressure (Japanese: つぼをつく Pressure Point Poke) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. Acupressure chooses one of the target's stats at random and raises it by two stages. It can raise either the target's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed, accuracy, or evasion stat but will not attempt to raise a stat that is already maximized, meaning that the move will fail if all stats are maximized. Acupressure will also fail if the target has a substitute. In this generation only, Acupressure can be stolen by Snatch. The move will apply to the user of Snatch regardless of the move's original target. Acupressure will no longer fail if the target is the user and the user is behind a substitute; it will still fail if targeting an ally behind a Substitute. Acupressure can no longer be stolen by Snatch. If a Pokémon selected Acupressure as its move, but when executing the move it is in a different position (due to shifting in a Triple Battle or Ally Switch), Acupressure will be used on the Pokémon currently in the targeted position (even if the user targeted itself initially); however, if the user now targets itself but did not initially, Acupressure fails. If the user's side of the field is protected by Crafty Shield, Acupressure will fail if executed on an ally but succeed if executed on the user. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Acupressure, the user's critical hit rate is increased by two stages. Acupressure randomly raises the Attack, Defense, Sp. Attack or Sp. Defense of the user and all teammates in the same room by two stages (picking randomly for each team member). The move will not raise a stat that is already at +10, and fails if all four stats are maxed out. No other move has the same range, the user or an adjacent ally, as Acupressure. It is the only move to have a unique range.

Title: Metal Burst (move)

Metal Burst (Japanese: メタルバースト Metal Burst) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. Metal Burst returns 1.5 times the damage dealt by the foe's last attack. Only the last damage taken will be counted, if the user is hit by a multi-hit move, only the damage from the final hit will be counted. Unlike Counter or Mirror Coat, Metal Burst does not require specifically physical or special damage sources and Metal Burst does not have decreased priority; if the user acts before it is hit by an opponent's damaging move, Metal Burst will fail. The move also fails if the user's substitute is hit instead. In battles involving multiple Pokémon, Metal Burst will hit the last opponent that dealt damage to the user, even if that opponent is not adjacent to the user. However, if the last Pokémon to hit the user faints before the user moves, the remaining enemy Pokémon will be hit instead, like with a regular single-target damaging move (using the damage taken from the move of the now-fainted Pokémon that had hit the user). Metal Burst cannot affect allied Pokémon. Metal Burst can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Encore, Taunt, or Torment was used in the prior turn. Metal Burst causes the user to give itself the Metal Burst status condition for 8-11 turns, causing any adjacent attacks to be reflected back at adjacent enemies for half the damage (prior to Gates to Infinity). From Gates to Infinity onwards, the user will reflect 3/4 of the move's damage back at the attacker. The status now lasts 6 turns. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): ...The more damage the user has taken, the greater the power of this move. This move's power scales based on how much HP the user loses while in their counterattacking posture. The more HP lost, the higher this move's power multiplier. The power multiplier resets when the user leaves this posture. Here is a table showing the specifics of this move: Metal Burst has the same description text as Comeuppance. Zamazenta (in its Hero of Many Battles form) is the only Pokémon to learn Metal Burst who is not Steel-type or associated with minerals such as rocks (Rhyhorn) or gems (Sableye). While its Crowned Shield form is Steel-type, Zamazenta does not need to be in that form to use Metal Burst.

Title: Close Combat (move)

Close Combat (Japanese: インファイト Infight) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. Close Combat inflicts damage and then lowers the user's Defense stat and Special Defense stat by one stage each. Close Combat's base power was reduced to 100, and it lowers the user's defensive stats for three turns. Close Combat aggressively tracks targets, unlike most other close-range moves. Should the target move out of Close Combat's attack range after Close Combat begins winding up, the user will "teleport" into range to ensure that damage is dealt (discounting the target being a Ghost-type). Close Combat inflicts damage, and reduces the user's Defense and Special Defense by one stage each. In Pokémon GO, Close Combat is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the user's Defense and Sp. Def. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Become Mega Gallade until the end of battle. Raises the user’s critical-hit rate. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until October 22, 2020, which is 161 days after its release date (on May 14, 2020). Description of 6★-EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents." In Pokémon UNITE, Close Combat is Machamp's first move, as well as Lucario's second move. Machamp can obtain the move by reaching level 7 as Machoke and upgrading Karate Chop into it instead of Cross Chop. The user unleashes a barrage of blows in a targeted direction, hitting multiple times and finishing with a single large strike. The user is unstoppable for the duration and can move while using Close Combat. At level 13, the attack deals additional damage if the target is affected by a status condition. Lucario can obtain the move by reaching level 7 and upgrading Meteor Mash into it instead of Bone Rush. The user rapidly punches, damaging enemies in the area in front of them 11 times over the duration. At level 13, the move's damage is increased. In Thieving and Boss Crabominable, Hala told his Hariyama to use Close Combat, but the move was executed off-panel.

Title: Payback (move)

Payback (Japanese: しっぺがえし Retribution) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM66 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and TM57 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Payback inflicts damage. Its power doubles to 100 if the user moves after the target, if the target switches out, or if the opponent uses an item. Payback's power no longer doubles if the target switches out. Payback gives the user the Counter status condition. With this status condition, the user will reflect any damage taken from physical moves (including the regular A button attack) back to any adjacent opponents equal to the damage received. Oddly in Explorers of Time and Darkness, though moves are assigned as Physical or Special in game, Payback will return damage from damaging moves from types previously assigned as physical prior to the Physical/Special split. The status lasts for 7-12 / 6 turns. In Pokémon GO, Payback is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 16, 2021.

Title: Assurance (move)

Assurance (Japanese: ダメおし Make Sure) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM58 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Assurance inflicts damage and will deal double damage if the target has already received damage on the turn it is used. This includes self-inflicted and indirect damage, such as damage from a Life Orb, recoil, crash damage, or hurting itself in confusion. Assurance deals double damage if the target's HP is at half or below. All Pokémon in front of the user will be hit by Assurance. When the user hits a blown-back foe, Assurance does more damage. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Going Ashore and Neighboring Akala Island, Sun mentioned that Cent, his Alolan Meowth, knows Assurance, but the battle was interrupted before he had a chance to tell him to use the move. The Japanese name of this move, ダメおし Dameoshi (Make Sure), if literally translated, can be read as "useless push", once the term dameoshi is the combination of the words ダメ dame (no good; useless; hopeless) and おし oshi (pushing). This might explain its move animations displaying hands pushing the target. In sumo wrestling, the term dameoshi refers to the act of pushing an opponent who was already defeated. This practice is not well regarded because it can cause serious injuries to a target who is unready once the result of the match has already been decided.

Title: Embargo (move)

Embargo (Japanese: さしおさえ Seize) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM63 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. For five turns, the target's held item has its effects negated and its Trainer cannot use items from the Bag on it. The effect wears off if the Pokémon switches out. Embargo does not negate item effects that affect prize money, experience, effort values, or friendship, such as those of the Amulet Coin, Lucky Egg, Power Weight, or Soothe Bell. The Speed drop from the Iron Ball, Macho Brace, and Power items (such as the Power Bracer) is not negated by Embargo. However, the grounding effect of the Iron Ball is negated. A Pokémon under the effect of Embargo cannot use Fling or Natural Gift. If the target of Fling is under the effect of Embargo, items thrown at it will not activate. If a Pokémon affected by Embargo uses Bug Bite or Pluck, it will consume the target's held Berry without gaining its effects. If a Pokémon affected by Embargo uses Judgment, it will be a Normal-type move. Embargo fails if used on a Pokémon with Multitype or a Pokémon holding a Griseous Orb. Embargo now negates the Speed drop from the Iron Ball, Macho Brace, and Power items (such as the Power Bracer). If the target of Fling is under the effect of Embargo, items thrown at it now activate as usual. If a Pokémon affected by Embargo uses Bug Bite or Pluck, it will now receive the effects of a consumed held Berry. If a Pokémon affected by Embargo uses Techno Blast or Multi-Attack, it will be a Normal-type move. Embargo can now be used successfully on a Pokémon with Multitype and Origin Forme Giratina. However, Embargo cannot negate form-changing effects of items. Embargo does not prevent the Pokémon from Mega Evolving with a Mega Stone, undergoing Primal Reversion with a Red Orb or Blue Orb, or using a Z-Move with a Z-Crystal. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Embargo, the user's Special Attack stat rises one stage. Embargo inflicts the Embargo status condition, preventing the target from using any items. This includes throwing items or eating edible items. However in the Explorers series, this does not prevent the effects of held items (for example, Mobile Scarf will still allow the user to travel in all kinds of terrain, and Seeds will still influence Natural Gift). In Super Mystery Dungeon, the user will also be unable to use held items such as Looplets. Embargo displays an animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution.

Title: Fling (move)

Fling (Japanese: なげつける Fling) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM56 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Fling inflicts damage; the power of the move is determined by the user's held item. Fling fails if the user has no held item, or if its held item is a TM, an Apricorn, a Gem, any type of Poké Ball, Mail, a Z-Crystal, an Ability Capsule, an Ability Patch, a Festival Ticket, the Red Orb, the Blue Orb, the Rusted Sword, or the Rusted Shield. Fling also fails if used by a Giratina holding the Griseous Orb, an Arceus holding a plate, a Genesect holding a drive, a Silvally holding a memory, a Pokémon holding a Mega Stone that allows it to Mega Evolve, a Pokémon with the Ability Protosynthesis or Quark Drive holding Booster Energy, or an Ogerpon holding the Cornerstone Mask, the Wellspring Mask, or the Hearthflame Mask. After using Fling, the item is consumed, even if the target was protected by a protection move. The power of Fling based on the held item is detailed in the following table. If the user holds a TR, Fling's power is equal to the power of the move the TR contains, unless the move does not list a specific power (i.e. it is a status move or has variable power with no default power), in which case it has 10 power. Due to this, TR71 (Leaf Storm) and TR43 (Overheat) match the Iron Ball and Big Nugget in producing the maximum possible Fling power of 130. If the user's held item can boost the power of moves (such as the Black Glasses or Life Orb), the power of Fling is boosted by the held item accordingly (if applicable). Because the user is no longer holding the item after using the move, the Life Orb does not reduce the user's HP when it boosts the power of Fling. If a Pokémon holding a Berry uses Fling, that Berry will activate for the target (even if its usual trigger condition is not satisfied). Additionally, some other items have special effects when a Pokémon holding them uses Fling: Embargo, Klutz (from Generation V onward), and Magic Room all prevent the usage of Fling. In Generation IV only, if the target of Fling is under the effect of Embargo and the user was holding an item with a special effect, the item's effect will not activate. If a Pokémon with Cud Chew is hit by Fling using a Berry, the Berry will reactivate at the end of the next turn. Fling can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Celebrate, Covet, Happy Hour, or Wish was used in the prior turn. In the Explorers series, Fling is a status move that sends the enemy in front flying across the room. If there is another enemy Pokémon in range, the target will collide, causing both Pokémon to take 10 HP damage. Despite being classified as a status move, it is only affected by Taunt in Explorers of Sky. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity onward, using Fling opens the inventory and allows the leader to choose an item to fling (excluding held items). It only works when an enemy is within a fan-shaped area up to 10 tiles in front; in hallways, the range is 2 tiles, or 5 starting in Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon. Like Gravelerocks, the thrown item will be flung in an arc, but the move cannot target Pokémon through walls, even when throwing rock items. Fling also ignores allies and is not affected by the Power-Pitching and Slip-Through Team Skills. Other Pokémon that use this move will fling their held item. The move is unaffected by Prankster. In Gates to Infinity, Fling will wake up sleeping-spawned Pokémon even if the move fails due to an obstruction. Fling is one of two moves with a 100% chance of causing flinching (if holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang), the other being Fake Out. Fling is the only Dark-type move able to cause paralysis (if holding a Light Ball), a burn (if holding a Flame Orb), or poisoning (if holding a Poison Barb or Toxic Orb). In the animated series, Fling can also be used to throw the remains of attacks, such as when Bianca's Emboar flung the remains of Trip's Conkeldurr's Stone Edge at it. It can also be used to throw the opponent.

Title: Psycho Shift (move)

Psycho Shift (Japanese: サイコシフト Psycho Shift) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. Psycho Shift cures any non-volatile status condition the user has and afflicts the target with it. It will not transfer volatile status conditions, such as confusion. It will fail if the target is immune to the status condition (such as via type, Ability, Safeguard, or by already having a status condition). If a badly poisoned Pokémon uses Psycho Shift, its target will be badly poisoned. Psycho Shift can be used to transfer sleep when used via Sleep Talk. As there is no way to use Psycho Shift while frozen, it is not possible to transfer this status condition. Psycho Shift will cure the user, then inflict the status condition on the opponent. Therefore, if Psycho Shift is used on a Pokémon with Synchronize, Synchronize will activate and afflict the user of Psycho Shift with that status condition again (if the user of Psycho Shift is susceptible to the status condition). Psycho Shift will now inflict the status condition on the target, then cure the user. Therefore, if Psycho Shift is used on a Pokémon with Synchronize, the user of Psycho Shift will already be afflicted with a status condition when Synchronize activates. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Psycho Shift, the user's Special Attack stat rises by two stages. Psycho Shift transfers the user's bad status conditions to the target in front. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Psycho Shift also cures sealed moves, but will not transfer them to the target. Psycho Shift is the only Psychic-type move capable of afflicting the target with burn, paralysis, or poison. Most of the Pokémon that learn this move are based on or related to birds.

Title: Trump Card (move)

Trump Card redirects here. For the Supporter card that appeared in the TCG, see Lysandre's Trump Card (Phantom Forces 99). Trump Card (Japanese: きりふだ Trump Card) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. Trump Card inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Trump Card's power depends on the move's remaining PP after use, powering up when its PP is lower. Trump Card's power is calculated as follows: Trump Card takes into account the PP lost from Spite and Pressure. However, Trump Card does not interact with Eerie Spell and G-Max Depletion (which are not available in the same games). Trump Card will always consider the current PP at the time of execution of the move, even in cases where PP is restored by Lunar Dance or a held Leppa Berry. When Trump Card is called by another move such as Metronome or Assist, it will instead use the PP of that move with the same chart applying. Trump Card inflicts damage. Its damage depends on the move's PP. In the Explorers series, Trump Card's damage is multiplied by 1.5×, 2×, and 2.5× at 70%, 50%, and 20% PP left, respectively. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the power of the move is increased approximately by 30%, 60%, 90%, and 120%, if the move has 4, 3, 2, or 1 PP, respectively. Most of Trump Card's animations depict it as slicing the opponent. This may be because its Japanese name, read in kanji, contains 切り kiri, meaning "cut".

Title: Heal Block (move)

Heal Block (Japanese: かいふくふうじ Recovery Block) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM097 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Heal Block restricts the targets from healing in certain ways for five turns. Affected Pokémon are unable to use status moves that heal the user immediately, HP-draining moves, Wish, Lunar Dance, Healing Wish, Heal Pulse, Floral Healing, or to target an ally with Pollen Puff. These Pokémon are also unable to be targeted by Heal Pulse, Floral Healing, or an ally's Pollen Puff, or healed by Wish (even if Wish was used successfully before the Heal Block). They can still use Present, Ingrain, Aqua Ring, and Grassy Terrain, but cannot be healed by the effects of these moves. If a Pokémon had already selected one of the blocked moves to use before being affected by Heal Block, it is prevented from using it and PP will not be deducted. If a Pokémon cannot use any moves when selecting a move to use due to Heal Block (e.g., due to knowing no other moves that have PP, Choice Band, etc.), it will use Struggle. Restricted moves can still be called by moves that call other moves (such as Metronome), but they are prevented from being used. A Pokémon affected by Heal Block is still able to use Leech Seed, causing the target to become seeded. However, Sappy Seed and Heal Block do not interact because they are not available in the same core series games. The seeded Pokémon still takes damage every turn as usual, regardless of the seeder being affected by Heal Block. As long as the user of Leech Seed (or the Pokémon who replaced it in the same spot) is affected by Heal Block, no HP will be restored, but it will still take damage if the seeded Pokémon has Liquid Ooze. Heal Block's effect can be transferred via Baton Pass. All Abilities and items which restore HP during battle work as usual. In this generation only, Heal Block cannot be reflected by Magic Bounce. If an affected Pokémon uses HP-draining moves, they still inflict damage but are unable to restore HP. The user still takes damage if the target has Liquid Ooze. Affected Pokémon can no longer be healed by Black Sludge, Leftovers, or Shell Bell. Affected Pokémon will no longer consume held HP-restoring Berries or Berry Juice. If an affected Pokémon consumes an HP-restoring Berry via Fling, Bug Bite, or Pluck, it will not have its HP restored. Affected Pokémon with the Ability Dry Skin or Water Absorb will take no damage from Water-type moves, but will not be healed by them either. Affected Pokémon with the Ability Volt Absorb will take no damage from Electric-type moves, but will not be healed by them either. Affected Pokémon with the Ability Dry Skin or Rain Dish are prevented from healing during rain. Affected Pokémon with the Ability Ice Body are prevented from healing during hail, but are not damaged by it either. Affected Pokémon with the ability Poison Heal will not be healed or damaged if they are poisoned. Affected Pokémon with the Ability Cheek Pouch will not be healed after eating a Berry. Heal Block will not prevent Pokémon with the Ability Regenerator from having their HP restored upon switching out. Affected Pokémon can no longer use HP-draining moves. Affected Pokémon can still restore HP using the Z-Power effects of status Z-Moves. Heal Block cannot prevent a Pokémon from using or being healed by any Z-Move, including moves like Z-Soft-Boiled and Z-Heal Pulse. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Heal Block, the user's Special Attack stat rises by two stages. Heal Block targets all enemies in the same room and inflicts the Heal Block status condition, preventing them from having their HP restored, including natural HP recovery. This status condition lasts for 5-7 / 6 turns. This move is affected by Magic Coat. Heal Block displays animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution. Although this move is unusable in Generation VIII and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, The Indigo Disk introduced the move Psychic Noise, which not only prevents healing but also deals damage.

Title: Wring Out (move)

Wring Out (Japanese: しぼりとる Wring Out) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. Wring Out deals damage. Its power is greater the more HP the target has. Its power varies between 1 and 121. It is calculated as: Its power now varies between 1 and 120. It is calculated as: Wring Out deals damage. Its power is increased the higher the enemy's current HP. In the Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Wring Out's final damage is multiplied by ½ if the enemy's HP is at 75-51%, 51/256 (~0.2×) when at 50-26% and 25/256 (~0.1×) when at 25% or lower. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the multiplier ranges from 1.0x to 0.0x based on the target's current HP percentage, dealing a minimum of 1 damage. Red's Weepinbell were revealed to know Wring Out on the official web site, but they were never shown using the move.

Title: Power Trick (move)

Power Trick (Japanese: パワートリック Power Trick) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. Power Trick switches the user's raw Attack stat with its raw Defense stat. Stat modifiers are not swapped. The effect of Power Trick may be Baton Passed to swap the recipient's stats. Using Power Trick again will swap the user's stats again, but will not prevent Baton Pass from passing the effect. Because Power Trick swaps the user's raw stats, a Pokémon that Transforms into another Pokémon that has swapped its stats will copy the target's swapped stats instead of its original stats. If a Pokémon uses Power Trick and then uses Transform, the swapped stats are overwritten and Power Trick's effect can no longer be Baton Passed. Similarly to transforming, if a Pokémon uses Power Trick and then levels up or undergoes a form change, the swapped stats are overwritten (even if the new form has identical base stats to the previous form). However, unlike with transforming, Power Trick's effect can still be Baton Passed as usual. Power Trick can now be stolen by Snatch. If a Pokémon uses Power Trick and then undergoes Mega Evolution, the swapped stats are overwritten. However, Power Trick's effect can still be Baton Passed as usual. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Power Trick, the user's Attack stat rises one stage. Power Trick swaps the user's Attack and Defense stat boosts (as well as the unique multipliers from Aurora Beam, Memento, Charm and Screech in the Explorers series).

Title: Gastro Acid (move)

Gastro Acid (Japanese: いえき Gastric Juice) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation IV. Gastro Acid suppresses the target's Ability while it remains in battle. Gastro Acid fails if the target's Ability is Multitype, Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Power Construct, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, As One, Zero to Hero, or Commander. Gastro Acid can be reflected with Magic Coat and Magic Bounce (but Gastro Acid will still suppress Magic Bounce if it is not reflected by it, such as if Gastro Acid is used by a Pokémon with Mold Breaker). Pickup and Honey Gather can still find an item after the battle even if suppressed. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Gastro Acid, the user's Speed stat rises one stage. Gastro Acid inflicts the Gastro Acid status condition for 6-8/ 21 turns, suppressing the effects of target's Abilities. This move is affected by Magic Coat and the Muzzled status condition. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Gastro Acid also destroys a random Emera from the target's held Looplet.

Title: Lucky Chant (move)

Lucky Chant (Japanese: おまじない Good Luck Charm) is a Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. Lucky Chant prevents opponents from landing critical hits on the user's party for five turns, even if the move would always result in a critical hit (e.g. Frost Breath). If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Lucky Chant, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. Lucky Chant targets all team members in the same room giving them the Lucky Chant status condition, preventing critical hits from landing on them. This status condition lasts for 8-15 / 21 turns. Lucky Chant displays animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution.

Title: Me First (move)

Me First (Japanese: さきどり Take in Advance) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. If the target has not made its move this turn, but has selected a damage-dealing move, Me First copies that move preemptively and increases the power by 50%. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the opponent is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Me First will fail if the target selected a non-damaging move, or if the target already executed its move this turn. If the target is about to recharge from a move like Frenzy Plant this turn, Me First will copy the move. If a consecutively executed move like Outrage is copied, it will force the user of Me First to use the move for several turns, but the 50% increase in power only applies to the first turn. Unlike other moves, if the target of Me First is a vacant slot or a Pokémon that already fainted before the Me First user's turn, Me First will fail instead of being redirected to an adjacent non-fainted opponent. In Generation V only, if a Pokémon holds a Choice item and uses Me First, it will not become locked into any move, and is free to select a different move on a later turn. In all other generations, it will become locked into Me First, rather than the move it copied (if any, and even if the Pokémon knows that move separately in one of its own move slots). The Assault Vest does not prevent a Pokémon from selecting Me First, the only status move for which this is the case. Now, when Pokémon holding a Choice item copy a consecutively executed move or Bide with Me First, that move will fail after the first turn, because it is locked into Me First and attempting to use a different move. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Me First, the user's Speed stat rises by two stages. Additionally, the copied move will become its corresponding Z-Move. Me First will fail if the target chose a Z-Move or any of the following moves. Moves that call other moves are considered to be the original status move (not the move it calls), so Me First will always fail if the target has selected one of those moves. Me First targets an enemy in front, and uses a random damaging move that the enemy knows; the move will fail if the target has none. The damage of the called move is boosted by 50% in the Explorers series (damage is also boosted in the Adventure Squad series). In link battles between players, the user of Me First turns to face its own Trainer during the "stealing" animation before executing the copied move normally.

Title: Copycat (move)

If you were looking for the NPC living in Saffron City, see Copycat (character). For the TCG card featuring said character, see Copycat (Expedition 138). Copycat (Japanese: まねっこ Imitate) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. Copycat causes the user to use the last move that was used in the battle (even if the last move was by the user). If no move has been made, Copycat fails. If the copied move's target is not the user, an appropriate target is randomly chosen. The last-used move is updated whenever any Pokémon attempts to use a move. If a move successfully executes (generally, if the text "<Pokémon> used <move>!" is shown), that move becomes the last-used move. This is regardless of the move's result — whether it hit or missed or its effect was successful or failed (such as a Light Screen that fails because the previous Light Screen has not expired). Some moves that require multiple turns to execute do not count as valid moves in all of their turns. If Copycat executes after a turn when a move was not considered valid, Copycat will fail. Charging moves: the initial turn does not count as a valid move. Recharging moves: the recharge turn does not count as a valid move. Bide: the final turn does not count as a valid move. If any move calls another, the calling move is counted as the last move used instead of the called move. However, this only applies to the turn when the calling move was selected to be used. If a called move requires multiple turns to execute in full (such as Bide, Dig, or Thrash), it may validly become the last-used move in subsequent turns. If a Pokémon tries to use a move but is prevented by a status condition or effect (such as sleep, paralysis, or flinching), the last-used move becomes invalid and Copycat will fail if it executes next. If any move successfully calls another, the called move now counts as the last move used instead of the calling move. The last move used is now unaffected if a Pokémon tries to use a move but is prevented by a status condition or effect. In other words, the last-used move remains what it was before the Pokémon's turn. Charging moves, recharging moves, and Bide no longer have invalid turns that will cause Copycat to fail. Instead, charging moves and Bide can be copied on any turn, while recharging moves are ignored on their recharge turn (the last move used remains whatever it was before the recharge message appeared). If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Copycat, the user's accuracy rises one stage. Additionally, if the move to be copied isn't a status move, then it will become its corresponding Z-Move. Copycat fails if the most recently used move is a Z-Move, regardless of whether Copycat was powered up into Z-Copycat or not. If the most recently used move is a Max Move, the user will copy the base move that was powered up. For example, if a Dynamax Pokémon used Max Guard by selecting a move slot that originally contained Trick Room, and the next Pokémon to move used Copycat, it would copy Trick Room, rather than copying Max Guard or failing entirely. Copycat will fail if any of the following moves is the last move used: Additionally, Copycat fails if the last move used was a Z-Move. Copycat copies the target's last used move. Not all moves can be copied, such as Encore, Sketch, Assist, Metronome, Mirror Move, or Mimic.

Title: Power Swap (move)

Power Swap (Japanese: パワースワップ Power Swap) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM60 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Power Swap switches the user's Attack stat stages and Special Attack stat stages with the target's Attack stat stages and Special Attack stat stages. Since this changes stat stages, the stat stages can be passed via Baton Pass. Power Swap bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Power Swap, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Power Swap switches the user's Attack stat stages and Special Attack stat stages with the target's Attack stat stages and Special Attack stat stages. The move will also swap the unique multipliers from Aurora Beam, Memento and Charm. In Pokémon UNITE, Power Swap is one of Mr. Mime's possible second moves. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and choosing to upgrade Light Screen into it instead of Barrier. Previously, its spot as a possible second move was taken by Guard Swap. Power Swap has the user create a link between itself and the Pokémon hit by it. While active, the link increases the user's movement speed and continually restores its HP. If the linked Pokémon is an ally, the link will cause the same effects it causes on the user on it and will increase the amount of damage it deals. If the linked Pokémon is an opposing one, the link will cause the opposite effects: reduced movement speed, decreased damage dealt, and will damage it over time. The link will disappear if the user and the linked Pokémon are too far away. By reaching level 13, Power Swap is upgraded into Power Swap+, further increasing the amount of damage dealt by allies and decreasing the amount dealt by opposing Pokémon.

Title: Guard Swap (move)

Guard Swap (Japanese: ガードスワップ Guard Swap) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM61 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Guard Swap switches the user's Defense stat stages and Special Defense stat stages with the target's Defense stat stages and Special Defense stat stages. Since this changes stat stages, the stat stages can be passed via Baton Pass. Guard Swap bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Guard Swap, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Guard Swap switches the user's Defense stat stages and Special Defense stat stages with the target's Defense stat stages and Special Defense stat stages. The move will also swap the unique multiplier from Screech. In Pokémon UNITE, Guard Swap was Mr. Mime's second move. It since has been replaced by Power Swap. It was obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Light Screen into it instead of Barrier. The user fires a beam, swapping base Defense and Sp. Defense with another Pokémon for as long as they stay in range or until another target is Guard Swapped. Swapping with an enemy slows and damages them over time while increasing the user's movement speed. Swapping with an ally increases the movement speed of that ally and the user. Damage ticks every .5s. At level 13, the move heals the user, plus an ally if tethered to them every .5s.

Title: Punishment (move)

Punishment (Japanese: おしおき Punishment) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. Punishment deals damage. It normally has a base power of 60, but gains 20 power for every increased stat stage the target has, up to a maximum of 200 base power in total (i.e. capping at 7 positive stat stages). Stats decreased below normal do not affect this move's power. For example, if the target has used Shell Smash once (which increases Attack, Special Attack, and Speed by two stages each; but decreases Defense and Special Defense by one stage each), it has a total of 6 increased stat stages, which causes Punishment to have a base power of 180. (The fact that Defense and Special Defense are lowered below normal has no effect on the base power.) Punishment inflicts damage. Its power increases by the number of stat boosts the target has (up to 10 boosts in the Explorers series), ignoring any Defense boosts the target has when calculating the damage. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, Murkrow is programmed to be able to learn Punishment through breeding, but no other Pokémon in the Flying Group can pass down Punishment as an Egg Move in those games. Vullaby and Mandibuzz are the only Flying Egg Group Pokémon that can learn Punishment, but they cannot pass down the move due to being female-only species.

Title: Last Resort (move)

The Best redirects here. For the Korean opening theme, see The Best (song). Last Resort (Japanese: とっておき The Best) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Extreme Evoboost by Eevee holding Eevium Z. Last Resort inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Last Resort will fail unless the Pokémon has used all of its other moves at least once while on the field. Using a move before switching out and back in does not count towards being able to use Last Resort. Last Resort will fail if it is the only move the user knows, or if the user does not know Last Resort (such as if it is called indirectly). Last Resort deals damage, but will fail if the user has no moves that have 0 PP. It will multiply damage by 1.5× and 2× if 2 or 3 moves are out of PP. In Pokémon GO, Last Resort is a Charged Attack that has been available since August 11, 2018.

Title: Worry Seed (move)

Worry Seed (Japanese: なやみのタネ Worry Seed) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. Worry Seed changes the target's Ability to Insomnia. If a Pokémon affected by Worry Seed is switched out, it regains its original Ability. Worry Seed can be used successfully even if the target's Ability is already Insomnia. Worry Seed fails if the target's Ability is Truant, Multitype, Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Power Construct, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, As One or Commander. Worry Seed also fails if the target is holding a Griseous Orb. With this effect, the target Pokémon cannot sleep and wakes up if already asleep. Worry Seed now displays the Pokémon's previous Ability before changing it. Worry Seed now fails if the target's Ability is already Insomnia. A target holding the Griseous Orb can now be affected by Worry Seed. Worry Seed can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Rototiller was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Worry Seed, the user's Speed stat rises one stage. Worry Seed can affect Hunger Switch, and Morpeko will not change forms while affected. In the Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Worry Seed inflicts the Sleepless status condition on the target for the rest of the floor. The move fails if the target has the Ability Truant. From Super Mystery Dungeon, Worry Seed changes the target's Ability to Insomnia. Worry Seed's name is a play on 悩みの種 Nayami no Tane; although the expression is roughly "cause of trouble", an overly literal translation can yield "Worry Seed". 種 Tane (seed) is written using katakana to emphasize the move literally involves a seed.

Title: Sucker Punch (move)

Sucker Punch (Japanese: ふいうち Surprise Attack) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. Sucker Punch has a power of 80. It has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. If Sucker Punch's target has selected a physical or special attack and has not yet had a chance to execute its move, Sucker Punch will damage the target; otherwise, Sucker Punch will fail. Sucker Punch only depends on the move the target has selected, and is not affected by any consideration of whether the attack can actually be executed, such as status conditions like sleep or freeze or Abilities like Truant. Sucker Punch will now succeed if the opponent is using Me First (despite the fact that Me First is a status move). Due to a glitch, in a Double Battle where the player who didn't initiate the challenge is down to their final Pokémon, that Pokémon's Sucker Punch originally failed when used against the opponent on their right, regardless of what move that Pokémon selected for the turn. With the release of the version 1.1 update to Sword and Shield, this glitch was fixed and Sucker Punch can now correctly hit Pokémon in that position. In Pokémon UNITE, Sucker Punch is Absol's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Slash into it instead of Psycho Cut. The user attacks a target Pokémon, slowing both it and the user. If the user is attacked, or the target attacks anything, hit does extra damage. At level 13, user's base attack speed is increased after a counter. Despite its name, Sucker Punch is not a punching move. It is the only move with this distinction. The term "sucker punch" refers to an unexpected or cheap shot at an opponent, akin to its Japanese name「ふいうち」, which translates to surprise attack. Thus, many Pokémon that do not possess arms can learn this move, and its base power is not increased by Iron Fist.

Title: Toxic Spikes (move)

Toxic Spikes (Japanese: どくびし Toxic Spikes) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation IV. Toxic Spikes sets an entry hazard around the target Pokémon. One layer of Toxic Spikes causes opposing Pokémon to acquire the poison status ailment upon switching in, while two or more layers causes opposing Pokémon to become badly poisoned. Toxic Spikes has no effect against Flying-, Poison-, or Steel-type Pokémon or Pokémon with the Ability Immunity, Levitate, Leaf Guard (during intense sunlight), or Magic Guard. If a Pokemon is under the affect of Magnet Rise, it will not be affected by Toxic Spikes. However, a Flying or Levitating Pokémon will be affected if it is switched in while holding an Iron Ball, while Gravity is in effect, or if Baton Passed an Ingrain. If a grounded Poison-type Pokémon is switched in, it will absorb Toxic Spikes and the effect of Toxic Spikes will end. The moves Rapid Spin and Defog remove the effect of Toxic Spikes; Rapid Spin removes Toxic Spikes set around the user of Rapid Spin while Defog removes Toxic Spikes set around the target of Defog. Toxic Spikes does not activate the Ability Synchronize unless a Pokémon on the field directly causes Synchronizing Pokémon to switch in, such as by using the moves Roar or Whirlwind. If a Pokémon is holding an Air Balloon, it will not be affected by Toxic Spikes, unless Gravity is in effect. A Poison-type Pokémon holding an Air Balloon will not absorb Toxic Spikes, unless Gravity is in effect. Toxic Spikes can now be reflected with Magic Coat. Magic Guard will not prevent poisoning status but will prevent poison damage. A Pokemon with Comatose will not be poisoned by Toxic Spikes. Toxic Spikes does not activate the Ability Synchronize at all, even if a Pokémon on the field directly causes Synchronizing Pokémon to switch in, such as by using a move like Roar or Dragon Tail. Toxic Spikes can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Circle Throw, Dragon Tail, Hex, Roar, Venom Drench, Venoshock and Whirlwind) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Toxic Spikes, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. A Pokemon holding Heavy-Duty Boots is immune to Toxic Spikes when entering battle. A grounded Poison-type Pokémon holding Heavy-Duty Boots can still remove Toxic Spikes on switching in. Toxic Spikes causes the user to create a Toxic Spikes trap underneath them, as long as it is a land tile that is neither stairs nor Kecleon Shop carpet. The trap also cannot be laid in hallways and the entrance of a room. Any Pokémon that triggers a Toxic Spikes trap will become poisoned and be damaged (10 HP damage in the Explorers series, 20 HP damage in Super Mystery Dungeon). Poison-type and Steel-type Pokémon will still be damaged from the trap though they will not be poisoned. Flying-type and levitating Pokémon will also be affected by the Toxic Spikes trap. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Toxic Spikes could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Toxic Spikes could be seen as a move used by Boss Mareanie. In Pokémon Battle Revolution, the positioning of the spikes change every time a different animation is played.

Title: Heart Swap (move)

Heart Swap (Japanese: ハートスワップ Heart Swap) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. Except for in Generation VII, it is one of the signature moves of Manaphy. Heart Swap switches the user's stat stages with the target's stat stages. Since this changes stat stages, the stat stages can be passed via Baton Pass. Heart Swap bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Heart Swap, the user's critical hit rate is increased by two stages. The boost to the critical hit rate is applied after the other stat stages are swapped. Heart Swap swaps any Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, accuracy and evasion stat boosts (as well as the unique stat multipliers from Screech, Charm, Memento and Aurora Beam in the Explorers and Adventures series). In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Manaphy uses Heart Swap when coming out of a Poké Ball. This switches the controls of the players of the two characters closest to Manaphy when it launches the attack. Damage meters are also swapped, and if a character is knocked out, the player controlling the character at that time loses a stock (instead of the player who originally controlled that character). After approximately 15-30 seconds, the controls will be returned to normal. Manaphy has a possibility of being able to swap four brawlers' hearts if all four are close enough to it.

Title: Aqua Ring (move)

Aqua Ring (Japanese: アクアリング Aqua Ring) is a non-damaging Water-type move introduced in Generation IV. The user surrounds itself with a veil of water, allowing it to restore 1/16 of its maximum HP (rounded down) at the end of every turn. Aqua Ring works regardless of the user's type. If the affected Pokémon is holding a Big Root, the amount of restored HP is increased by 30%. A Pokémon affected by Heal Block can still use Aqua Ring, but the veil of water will not restore the user's HP as long as Heal Block is in effect. If powered up by a Waterium Z into Z-Aqua Ring, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. In Generation IV only, Aqua Ring cannot be stolen by Snatch. It can be stolen by Snatch from Generation V onwards. The user gains the Aqua Ring status which heals the user over time. In Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky, the status lasts for 9-16 turns and the user will gain 8 HP every 4 turns. From Gates to Infinity, the status lasts for 6 turns and the user will gain 6 HP every 2 turns. The Pokémon pauses for about two seconds, then it restores HP by 2s and 3s. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Aqua Ring could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Aqua Ring could be seen as a move used by Boss Dewgong and Manaphy. As shown in Cilan Takes Flight! and An Amazing Aerial Battle!, Aqua Ring appears to have extra effects in the animated series, such as being able to heal the user's burns and block Electric-type attacks.

Title: Magnet Rise (move)

Magnet Rise (Japanese: でんじふゆう Electromagnetic Levitation) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation IV. The user becomes immune to Ground-type attacks for five turns. Like Flying-type Pokémon and Pokémon with Levitate, the user becomes ungrounded which makes it immune to various effects related to the ground. Magnet Rise fails if the user is under the effects of Ingrain and cannot be selected if Gravity is in effect. If the user is holding an Iron Ball, Magnet Rise can still be used, but the user remains on the ground until the item is removed from the user. Magnet Rise can now be stolen by Snatch. Magnet Rise is removed if the user is hit by Smack Down or Thousand Arrows. If used again, Magnet Rise fails. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Magnet Rise, the user's evasiveness is raised by one stage. Magnet Rise gives the user the Magnet Rise status condition, making them immune to Ground-type moves and giving flying movement type. This status lasts for 3-5 / 10 turns. In Pokémon Pokopia, Magnet Rise is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Magnemite in Withered Wasteland, following the game credits. It allows Ditto to transform into a Magnemite and freely hover in the air. Ditto's PP constantly depletes while transformed. Magnet Rise not only allows Ditto to pick up and place objects, unlike other transformations, but also provides much more freedom in how to do so than Ditto's human form. Objects can be placed via Spit Out one by one or in squares of four or nine, whether vertically or horizontally, or even replace preexisting objects. Broken objects are picked up as-is, even those which would only be destroyed by Rock Smash or Cut, and are instantly stored in the bag. Magnet Rise displays animation when it ends in Pokémon Battle Revolution. Magnet Rise can cause some Pokémon, like Electrode, to have no weaknesses due to only being weak to the Ground type. In Generation IV, the Porygon evolutionary line can learn Magnet Rise via level-up, but not via Move Tutor.

Title: Flare Blitz (move)

Flare Blitz (Japanese: フレアドライブ Flare Drive) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IV. Flare Blitz inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ⅓ of the damage done to the target. This move has a 10% chance of burning the target. If the user is frozen, Flare Blitz will thaw the user out, then inflict damage on the target. Flare Blitz's PP has been reduced to 5, and its base power has been lowered to 100. It also cures the user of frostbite. Flare Blitz deals damage, and may leave the target with a burn. The user receives recoil damage equal to ⅛ of the user's maximum HP in the Explorers series. From Gates to Infinity, the recoil damage is instead 20% of the user's max HP. Blue (Classic) & Charizard take no recoil damage from using this move due to their passive skill Recoil Removal 9. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Removes the frozen condition from the user. The user also takes 25% of the damage it dealt to the target. Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. Flare Blitz is Charizard's side special move, replacing Rock Smash which became its down special move following Charizard becoming an independent fighter. When used, Charizard cloaks itself in flames and corkscrews forward, dealing significant damage upon impact. Like in the main games, Charizard takes recoil damage when using this move. Flare Blitz remains as Charizard's side special move, being much stronger than in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U. In Pokémon UNITE, Flare Blitz is Charizard's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 as Charmeleon and upgrading Fire Spin into it instead of Fire Blast. The user charges forward, shielding itself, damaging and knocking back the targeted enemy. At level 13 or higher, the move also slows down the enemies for a short while after being thrown. Pocket Monsters Diamond and Pearl: Regigigas Major Capture Operation!! In Leaping Past Lopunny, Marley told her Arcanine to use Flare Blitz, but the move was executed off-panel. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In Generation IV, Flare Blitz was the only Fire-type Smart move. This no longer applies in Generation VI, where it is instead a Cool move. Flare Blitz is the only Fire-type move that causes recoil damage.

Title: Force Palm (move)

Force Palm (Japanese: はっけい Force Discharge) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. Force Palm inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Force Palm can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex and Smelling Salts to give extra three appeal points if either of them is used in the next turn. Force Palm deals damage, and may leave leave the target paralyzed. Force Palm is Lucario's side special. It can be used as both a long-range attack and a command grab depending on the distance of the opponent. In Pokémon GO, Force Palm is a Fast Attack that has been available since July 27, 2024. The Japanese name of this move is based on a term used in Chinese martial arts, especially involving internal energies and use of explosive force. In Japanese, the term fajin/hakkei often translates to "release internal power". Force Palm is the only Fighting-type move capable of causing paralysis that is accessible to the player, as the only other option, Combat Torque, is exclusive to the Revavroom in Team Star's Caph Squad's Starmobile.

Title: Aura Sphere (move)

Aura Sphere (Japanese: はどうだん Wave Bomb) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TR56 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM112 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Aura Sphere inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It can hit non-adjacent targets in Triple Battles. Aura Sphere's power was lowered from 90 to 80. Additionally, its power is boosted by 50% if the user has Mega Launcher, and Pokémon with Bulletproof are immune to it. Aura Sphere is Lucario's neutral special. Like most of its moves, Aura Sphere is more powerful if Lucario has taken more damage. If the opponent runs into Lucario while it is charging the sphere, the opponent also takes damage. In Pokémon GO, Aura Sphere is a Charged Attack that has been available since December 11, 2019. In Pokémon Rumble Blast, the user creates a blue ball that homes in on the nearest Pokémon. This buddy move was known as B Aura Sphere prior to version 2.38.0. In Exit Empoleon, Dahlia's Togekiss was mentioned to know Aura Sphere, but it was never seen using the move. Aura Sphere bears resemblances both in visuals and in its Japanese name (はどうだん Hadōdan) to the Hadouken attack in the Street Fighter video game series. In Pokémon X and Y, a camera clipping glitch occurs when the player uses Aura Sphere against some of Drasna's Pokémon.

Title: Rock Polish (move)

Rock Polish (Japanese: ロックカット Rock Cut) is a non-damaging Rock-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM69 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Rock Polish raises the user's Speed stat by two stages. Rock Polish is a part of Contest Spectacular combination and using it will cause Baton Pass and Electro Ball to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Rockium Z into Z-Rock Polish, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Rock Polish raises the user's Travel Speed by two stages. This move is affected by Snatch.

Title: Poison Jab (move)

Poison Jab (Japanese: どくづき Poison Stab) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM84 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM26 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Poison Jab inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of poisoning the target. Poison Jab inflicts damage, and may leave be the target poisoned. Sygna Suit Giovanni & Nidoking's passive skill Giovanni's Cunning makes their use of this move never miss. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target poisoned. In Trial on a Golden Scale!, one of Nito's henchmen told his Conkeldurr to use Poison Jab, but it was defeated by Quillon's Urshifu before the move could be executed. Poison Jab was the first Generation IV move seen in the animated series.

Title: Dark Pulse (move)

Dark Pulse (Japanese: あくのはどう Evil Pulse) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM79 in Generation IV and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM97 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM20 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Dark Pulse inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of causing the target to flinch. Dark Pulse can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Dark Pulse's power is increased by 50% when used by a Pokémon with the Ability Mega Launcher. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Dark Pulse's PP was lowered from 15 to 10, and the move can no longer cause flinching. Instead, it bypasses accuracy and evasion checks to always hit. Dark Pulse deals damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of making the target flinch. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until July 5, 2022, which is 1041 days after its release date (on August 29, 2019). Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Power of sync move increases by 50%." Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the zone is Dark Zone. Description prior to Version 2.23.0 (from July 27, 2022): This attack's power increases when the zone is Dark Zone.

Title: Night Slash (move)

Night Slash (Japanese: つじぎり Crossroad Killing) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM034 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Night Slash deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Night Slash can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Night Slash inflicts damage. The move has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). This buddy move was known as B Night Slash prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon UNITE, Night Slash is Absol's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 5 and upgrading Feint into it instead of Pursuit. The user ashes in an arc, damaging and slowing the first Pokémon hit. If the user hits, it can be activated again for a brief period of time – allowing the user to dash, dealing damage to all Pokémon hit. At level 11, the move heals the user heals on hit, and if the damage is a critical hit, the heal doubles Absol's Unite Move, Midnight Slash, is similar to Night Slash. In Jumping Rocket Ship!, Meowth claimed to have learned Night Slash, but he has never been seen using the move, claiming that it's too scary to be used by him. In Classroom Training!, Jeremiah told his Skuntank to use Night Slash, but due to it being incapacitated by a Vine Whip attack from James's Carnivine, it was unable to execute the move. In Stunning Staravia & Stinky Skuntank II, a Skuntank belonging to a Team Galactic Grunt was about to use Night Slash on Paka's Burmy, but thanks to Pearl's warning, Burmy was able to stop and counter the attack before it could be executed. The Japanese name 「つじぎり」 Tsujigiri (lit. "Crossroad Killing") refers to a way in which some samurai would test new swords in feudal Japan. This was by hiding in wait by a road (typically a crossroads, thus its literal translation) and waiting for an unsuspecting commoner (i.e. lower class, and so with far fewer rights than the samurai class) to pass by. He would then strike to kill, and in this way learn how well his new sword could cut.

Title: Aqua Tail (move)

Aqua Tail (Japanese: アクアテール Aqua Tail) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IV. Aqua Tail deals damage and has no secondary effect. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The more the user's Defense is raised, the greater the power of this move. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until June 6, 2022, which is 1012 days after its release date (on August 29, 2019). In Pokémon UNITE, Aqua Tail is Azumarill's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Marill at level 5 and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Whirlpool. The move increases the speed and area of effect of the next three basic attacks for 5s. If these basic attacks hit from a distance, they also deal increased damage, restore HP, and can ignore the Defense stat and shield effects of enemies hit. Using Aqua Tail will overwrite any active Play Rough attack change. At level 11, after activating this move, the next three basic attacks will also reduce the cooldown of all moves by .5s when they hit an enemy from a distance.

Title: Seed Bomb (move)

Seed Bomb (Japanese: タネばくだん Seed Bomb) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. Seed Bomb inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. It does not affect targets with Bulletproof. Seed Bomb can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Rototiller was used in the prior turn. Seed Bomb is now a multistrike move with 35 power that fires four seeds in front of the user, sweeping from left to right, that explode when they hit the ground or a target. In Pokémon UNITE, Seed Bomb is Venusaur's first move as Bulbasaur. The user hurls a large seed to the designated location, damaging all enemies in the radius. Upon evolving into Ivysaur at level 5, it is replaced by either Sludge Bomb or Giga Drain.

Title: Air Slash (move)

Air Slash (Japanese: エアスラッシュ Air Slash) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM95 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM065 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Air Slash inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Air Slash is no longer affected by King's Rock. It can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Air Slash's PP was reduced from 20 to 15. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Air Slash's PP has been reduced to 10. It also lowers the target's action speed. Air Slash deals damage and can cause the target to flinch. In Pokémon GO, Air Slash is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Air Slash is Cramorant's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 4 and upgrading Feather Dance into it instead of Hurricane. The user shoots many blades of air while moving backwards, dealing damage to enemies within the cone. This move's cooldown is reduced for every blade that hits. At level 11, each blade also heals the user on hit. In Exit Empoleon, Dahlia's Togekiss was mentioned to know Air Slash, but it was never seen using the move. Despite its name and description, Air Slash is not a wind move.

Title: Bug Buzz (move)

Bug Buzz (Japanese: むしのさざめき Insect Noise) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM62 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Bug Buzz does damage and has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Bug Buzz can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Bug Buzz's base power has been lowered to 80. It has a 20% chance of lowering the target's defensive stats for three turns. Bug Buzz deals damage to all adjacent enemies, and may lower their Sp. Defense by one stage. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): Sync move targets all opponents. Despite the descriptions of this move stating that the usage of wings is required, Pokémon that lack wings can still learn this attack. However, in Generation IV, when this move was first introduced, all Pokémon that could learn this move did have wings.

Title: Dragon Pulse (move)

Dragon Pulse redirects here. For the energy from White—Victini and Zekrom and Black—Victini and Reshiram known as "Dragon Pulse" in Japanese, see Dragon Force. Dragon Pulse (Japanese: りゅうのはどう Dragon Pulse) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM59 in Generation IV and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM34 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Dragon Pulse inflicts damage and can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Dragon Pulse's base power is reduced from 90 to 85. Additionally, its power is boosted by 50% if the user has the Ability Mega Launcher. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, the move bypasses accuracy checks to always hit. A Poipole that knows this move will evolve into Naganadel when leveled up. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Dragon Pulse is one of the attacks Rayquaza can use when it is fought, fired in the form of red and white energy balls of electricity. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragon Pulse is Duraludon's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Laser Focus into it instead of Flash Cannon. The user charges power before dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect. User's movement speed is decreased while charging, but the longer power is charged, the wider the move's area of effect becomes and the more damage it deals. At level 11, the move restores 8% of user's HP if it knocks out an enemy player.

Title: Dragon Rush (move)

Dragon Rush (Japanese: ドラゴンダイブ Dragon Dive) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation IV. Dragon Rush inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of causing the target to flinch. If the target has used Minimize, Dragon Rush now deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Dragon Rush behaves similarly to Heat Crash and Heavy Slam causing the user to leap high up into the air (briefly avoiding moves that pass through their position), before crashing back down on the target. This is also similar to Fly and Bounce, though the user remains airborne for a much shorter time. Dragon Rush deals damage, and may cause the target to flinch. In Gates to Infinity, when Dragon Rush is used by a Gigantic Pokémon, the move has an extended range, being able to attack enemies in the line of sight of the user. It also has a base PP of 20 and base accuracy of 90%. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of making the target flinch. Iris (Alt.) & Hydreigon's passive skill Piercing Gaze makes their use of this move never miss. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Dragon Rush is a custom move for Charizard, replacing Flare Blitz. When used, Charizard will dash at the opponent while spinning. When the move makes contact, it will carry the opponent while repeatedly damaging them. Unlike Flare Blitz and Blast Burn, Dragon Rush will not cause Charizard to damage itself when used. Mega Charizard X uses the same move when the A button is pressed, except it can be used in many different directions. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragon Rush is Garchomp's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Gabite at level 5 and upgrading Sand Attack into it instead of Dig. The user jumps back, and briefly channels before diving forward, dragging all enemies within a small radius to the designated area and reducing damage taken by 35%, then deals damage in a radius. The user can use Dragon Claw during the first half of the channel to provide two more hits and replace the radial damage at the end of the move with a damaging stun and slow. At level 11, the user becomes unstoppable during this move. In Italian, the Lake of Outrage is named after this move.

Title: Power Gem (move)

Power Gem (Japanese: パワージェム Power Gem) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation IV. Power Gem inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Despite not being able to learn it in Generation VI, Diancie is seen using Power Gem on X and Y's official website. However, since the battle takes place in a cave, it is possible the move Diancie used was actually Nature Power.

Title: Drain Punch (move)

Drain Punch (Japanese: ドレインパンチ Drain Punch) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM60 in Generation IV and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Drain Punch inflicts damage, and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP. If this attack deals 1 HP of damage, 1 HP will be restored to the user. If HP is restored to the user when its current HP is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal to its maximum HP. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Drain Punch has 5 PP and a base power of 60 in this generation Drain Punch's base PP is raised to 10 and the power is increased from 60 to 75. Drain Punch cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block or Psychic Noise. Drain Punch inflicts damage and 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP, including excess damage. In Adventure Squad only, the move heals by 20% of dealt damage instead. In Gates to Infinity only, the user will heal based on how much HP the target lost, and excess damage is not accounted for. In Pokémon GO, Drain Punch is a Charged Attack that was made available on April 23, 2022. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. HP restored is equal to 10% of the damage dealt, rounded down. Shroomish and Togekiss are able to learn Drain Punch despite not having any hands, although their evolutionary relatives do. Drain Punch is the only Fighting-type HP-draining move.

Title: Vacuum Wave (move)

Vacuum Wave (Japanese: しんくうは Vacuum Wave) is a damage dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM184 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM150 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Vacuum Wave inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. This move's Japanese name, しんくうは shinkūha, is a reference to a ninja technique ubiquitous in manga, anime, and other fiction commonly known in English as vacuum wave. A popular example of this is the Naruto series or Megami Tensei franchise. Despite being able to learn it by level up in these games, Scyther cannot learn this move by Move Tutor in Pokémon Platinum, HeartGold, or SoulSilver. Vacuum Wave is the only variation of Quick Attack to be a special move.

Title: Focus Blast (move)

Focus Blast (Japanese: きあいだま Fighting Spirit Bullet) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM52 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Focus Blast does damage and has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage. It does not affect Pokémon with Bulletproof. Focus Blast inflicts damage and may lower the target's Sp. Defense by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Focus Blast is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. Focus Blast is the only special Fighting-type move that has an accuracy lower than 100%. In the pre-release material of the Japanese versions of Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, Focus Blast had a different animation: instead of "spreading" when it touched the opponent, it disintegrated. Focus Blast is the only special variant of Blizzard that was not lowered to 110 power in Generation VI. In an early trailer of Pokémon X and Y, Focus Blast's animation had a red background. In the final version, the background is blue.

Title: Energy Ball (move)

Energy Ball (Japanese: エナジーボール Energy Ball) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM53 in Generations IV through Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Energy Ball damages the opponent and has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage. Energy Ball's power was increased from 80 to 90. Additionally, it does not affect targets with Bulletproof. Energy Ball's base power has been lowered back to 80. It also has a 20% chance of lowering the target's defensive stats for three turns. Energy Ball inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Sp. Defense by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. In the animated series, Energy Ball's appearance is strikingly similar to Zap Cannon, Hidden Power, and Electro Ball.

Title: Brave Bird (move)

Brave Bird (Japanese: ブレイブバード Brave Bird) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TR66 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM164 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Brave Bird inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ⅓ of the damage done to the target. If the user inflicts no damage (such as if Disguise takes the damage), they do not take recoil damage. Brave Bird can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Brave Bird's PP has been reduced to 5, and its base power has been lowered to 100. Brave Bird deals damage and the user receives recoil damage. Recoil is equal to ⅛ of the user's maximum HP in the Explorers and Adventure series, and 20% of maximum HP from Gates to Infinity onwards. When used by a gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Brave Bird has an increased base PP of 20, but a lower base accuracy of 90%. In Pokémon GO, Brave Bird is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Skyla & Unfezant and Grimsley & Honchkrow take no recoil damage from using this move due to their passive skill Recoil Removal 9. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents." Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Power of sync move increases by 50%." Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The more the target's Attack is lowered, the greater the power of this move. In Pokémon UNITE, Brave Bird is Talonflame's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Fletchinder at level 7 and upgrading Acrobatics into it instead of Fly. The user dives at the targeted area, taking 5% of remaining HP as recoil damage and damaging all enemies in the area. If the user uses a boosted basic attack on an enemy hit by Brave Bird within 4s, the cooldown of Flame Charge or Aerial Ace is reset. The cooldown of Flame Charge and Aerial Ace can only be reset once per target hit by Brave Bird. At level 13, the user takes 15% less damage for 5s when this move hits. Sky Attack and Brave Bird share similar in-game animations in Generation IV and V; the only major difference is that the former has a blue aura, and the latter has a red aura. This was reversed in the animated series up until Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. In the Japanese version, there are even more similarities with Sky Attack being named "God Bird." In the animated series and Pokémon Adventures, Pokémon are shown with their wings spread out when Brave Bird connects, but the in-game descriptions state that the user tucks in its wings. Brave Bird is the only Flying-type move that causes recoil damage. Except for Mew, which can learn any move via TM or TRs, the Zubat evolutionary line is the only one able to learn this move despite not being based on birds.

Title: Earth Power (move)

Earth Power (Japanese: だいちのちから Earth Power) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation IV. Earth Power inflicts damage, and has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense stat by one stage. Earth Power's base power has been lowered to 80. It also has a 20% chance of lowering the target's defensive stats for three turns. Earth Power generates an explosion from the ground under the target, and can strike other targets close enough to the primary one. As Earth Power generates its attack from the ground, a target too high above it will not take damage. Earth Power deals damage to all enemies in the room. It may lower the target's Sp. Defense by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Earth Power is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 17, 2019. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (since June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. Earth Power is the only Move Tutor move whose Pokémon compatibility changed between games of the same generation, as Sunkern and Sunflora are able to learn Earth Power in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, but not Pokémon Platinum.

Title: Switcheroo (move)

Switcheroo redirects here. For the facility involving the Battle Agency, see Festival Plaza. Switcheroo (Japanese: すりかえ Secret Switch) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. The user switches held items with the target. If only one of them is holding an item, the item is moved to the other. The target has Sticky Hold (even if it has no held item). a Mega Stone, if either Pokémon could use it to Mega Evolve a colored orb, if either Pokémon could use it to undergo Primal Reversion a Booster Energy, if either Pokémon is a Paradox Pokémon (excluding Koraidon, Miraidon, Gouging Fire, Raging Bolt, Iron Boulder and Iron Crown) a Wellspring Mask, Hearthflame Mask, or Cornerstone Mask, if either Pokémon is Ogerpon In Link Battles, battle facilities, Secret Bases, and the Trainer House, items stolen will be returned at the end of the battle. In these generations, Switcheroo fails if either Pokémon has Multitype or either Pokémon is holding a Griseous Orb. Switcheroo no longer switches a Trainer's Pokémon's items permanently; however, items switched in wild battles are permanently switched. Switcheroo can now exchange a Griseous Orb, but still fails if either Pokémon holds a Griseous Orb and either Pokémon is Giratina. Switcheroo can now exchange items with a Pokémon that has Multitype, but still fails if either Pokémon holds a Plate and either Pokémon is Arceus. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Switcheroo, the user's Speed is raised two stages, then the move itself fails after obtaining the Z-Power since it is not possible to exchange a Z-Crystal. Switcheroo will always fail when used in a Max Raid Battle or a Tera Raid Battle, regardless of the items or target. (It works as normal against Dynamax Pokémon in other battles.) In Pokémon Sword and Shield, due to a presumed glitch in accounting for the removal of colored orbs, Switcheroo would fail in versions 1.2.0 through 1.3.1 if it was used by or against Groudon or Kyogre and either the user or the target was not holding an item. This behavior was corrected in version 1.3.2. Switcheroo swaps the user's and the target's held items. Prior to Super Mystery Dungeon, this move will fail if at least one of the Pokémon is not holding an item. From Super Mystery Dungeon, the move will still succeed even if either the user or the target does not have an item. In Generation IX, Switcheroo has the same animation as Trick.

Title: Giga Impact (move)

Giga Impact (Japanese: ギガインパクト Giga Impact) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM68 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move, Pulverizing Pancake, by Snorlax holding Snorlium Z. Giga Impact deals damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. Unless this attack misses, the user will always have to recharge. If the user has Truant, the recharge and "loafing around" take place on the same turn. Giga Impact's base power has been lowered to 120. Instead of forcing the user to recharge, using Giga Impact lowers the user's action speed. Giga Impact inflicts damage. If the move hit successfully, the user is inflicted with the recoil status condition (Paused prior to Gates to Infinity) for 1 turn. This status prevents the user from taking any actions. In Pokémon GO, Giga Impact is a Charged Attack that has been available since November 1, 2019. This is a Fairy-type move when used by Lisia (New Year's 2023) & Rapidash, Volo & Togepi, and Adaman (Palentine's 2026) & Sylveon due to their passive skills Fairy Shift, Piqued Curiosity, and Change It Up!, respectively. This is a Flying-type move when used by Liza (Summer 2023) & Celesteela due to their passive skill Flying Shift. In addition to being Flying-type, this also never misses when used by Lance & Charizard due to their passive skill Dragon's Ascent. This is a Dragon-type move, costs only two move gauge slots to use, and never misses when used by Arc Suit Lance & Dragonite due to their passive skill The Caped Dragon Master. This is a Psychic-type move and costs only three move gauge slots to use when used by Hilda (Champion) & Iron Leaves due to their passive skill Future-Honed Strike. In Pulling Out the Pokémon Base Pepper!, Oluolu's Snorlax was confirmed to know Giga Impact through its use of Pulverizing Pancake. However, it has never been seen using it. Cynthia's Garchomp was revealed to know Giga Impact on the official website, but she has never been shown using the move. In Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Sapphire told her Donphan, Phado, to use Giga Impact, but the move was executed off-panel. Most Pokémon that can learn Hyper Beam or Giga Impact through TM are also capable of learning the other. Giga Impact can be learned via TM by many Pokémon that were fully evolved in earlier generations but gained an evolution by the time the move was introduced in Generation IV, such as Porygon or Seadra.

Title: Nasty Plot (move)

Nasty Plot (Japanese: わるだくみ Wiles) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM63 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Nasty Plot raises the user's Special Attack stat by two stages. Nasty Plot is a part of Contest Spectacular combination and using it will cause Baton Pass and Stored Power to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Nasty Plot, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Nasty Plot raises the user's offensive stats for five turns. It also increases the user's action speed. Nasty Plot raises the user's Sp. Atk by two stages.

Title: Bullet Punch (move)

Bullet Punch (Japanese: バレットパンチ Bullet Punch) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. Bullet Punch inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Bullet Punch's PP has been reduced to 20. It also increases the user's action speed. Like all other moves that previously possessed priority, Bullet Punch causes the user to dash forward to make damaging contact with the target (although terrain may interfere with doing so). During the dash, the user is intangible and will ignore projectiles and hazards that they pass through.

Title: Avalanche (move)

Avalanche redirects here. For the location in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, see Mt. Avalanche. Avalanche (Japanese: ゆきなだれ Avalanche) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM72 in Generation IV and Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and TM64 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. It is TM046 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Avalanche deals damage and is a decreased priority move, causing the user to attack after other Pokémon that are using ordinary priority moves. If the target had already damaged the user in the same turn, Avalanche's power is doubled to 120. Avalanche gives the user the Bide status, where the user cannot move, attack, or use any items. The status lasts for 4 turns / 3 turns, and any damage received during this time will be dealt back at 2× / 1.5× to the enemy in front. Avalanche cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. In Pokémon GO, Avalanche is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The user gets ready to counterattack. Using this move again will cause the user to attack the target. No other actions can be taken while ready to counterattack. If the user is attacked with a move while ready to counterattack, the user then attacks the target with double that power. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until December 25, 2021, which is 849 days after its release date (on August 29, 2019). Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5: "Additional Effects: Power of sync move increases by 50%." Description prior to Version 2.20.0: This move's power increases during a hailstorm. In Pokémon UNITE, Avalanche is Alolan Ninetales's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Alolan Vulpix at level 4 and upgrading Powder Snow into it instead of Dazzling Gleam. The user attacks with a gust of chilly ice toward the designated direction. The ice damages enemies and forms a wall that can't be walked through. After a short time this wall melts and collapses, further damaging enemies in a radius around the wall. At level 11 or higher, the move decreases the movement speed of enemies for a short time when it hits. Due to the effect of Snow Warning, Avalanche slings snow and contributes to Alolan Ninetales freezing opposing Pokémon. Due to being introduced at different times, Avalanche (Alud) and Rock Slide (Avalancha) have Spanish game version names that would be more accurate if swapped around. Despite attacking from a distance, Avalanche is a move that makes contact. In Generations IV and V, Secret Power has the animation of Avalanche when used on snow.

Title: Ice Shard (move)

Ice Shard (Japanese: こおりのつぶて Ice Pebble) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation IV. Ice Shard inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Ice Shard's PP has been reduced to 20. It also increases the user's action speed. In Pokémon UNITE, Ice Shard is Mamoswine's first move as Swinub. The user hurls 3 chunks of ice at the designated location, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. If an enemy is hit by all three chunks, they're left frozen for a short time. After evolving into Piloswine at level 5, this move is replaced by either Icicle Crash or Ice Fang.

Title: Shadow Claw (move)

Shadow Claw (Japanese: シャドークロー Shadow Claw) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM65 from Generation IV through Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Generation VIII. In Generation IX, it is TM061. Shadow Claw deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Shadow Claw can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Shadow Claw deals damage. The move has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). In Pokémon UNITE, Shadow Claw is Aegislash's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Doublade at level 5 and upgrading Shadow Sneak into it instead of Sacred Sword. The user slashes with its blade twice in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies hit. Follow up with a final rising slash that deals damage to enemies hit and throw them. Boost count increases by 1 when at least one of the three slashes hits. At level 11, the move increases the user's critical hit rate by 20% for a short time. Shadow Claw is the only move that retained its TM number between Generation VII and Generation VIII.

Title: Thunder Fang (move)

Thunder Fang (Japanese: かみなりのキバ Thunder Fang) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation IV. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Ice Fang and Fire Fang, having similar names and effects. Thunder Fang deals damage and has a 10% chance of paralyzing the opponent. It also has an independent 10% chance of causing the target to flinch, if the user attacks before the target. Thunder Fang can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. Thunder Fang is no longer affected by King's Rock. Thunder Fang has a 20% chance of paralyzing the target. It also lowers the target's action speed. Thunder Fang inflicts damage and may paralyze or flinch the enemy. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon GO, Thunder Fang is a Fast Attack that has been available since September 27, 2019. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of making the target flinch or leaving the target paralyzed.

Title: Ice Fang (move)

Ice Fang (Japanese: こおりのキバ Ice Fang) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation IV. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Fire Fang and Thunder Fang, having similar names and effects. Ice Fang deals damage and has a 10% chance of freezing the opponent. It also has an independent 10% chance of causing the target to flinch, if the user attacks before the target. Ice Fang has a 20% chance of leaving the target with frostbite. It also lowers the target's action speed. Ice Fang deals damage and may leave the enemy frozen and/or flinching. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In Pokémon GO, Ice Fang is a Fast Attack that has been available since September 27, 2019. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of making the target flinch or leaving the target frozen. In Pokémon UNITE, Ice Fang is Mamoswine's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Piloswine at level 5 and upgrading Ice Shard into it instead of Icicle Crash. The user uses cold-infused fangs to throw the opposing Pokémon closest to the user, dealing damage and leaving them frozen for a short time. The user can then designate a direction to slam the thrown Pokémon forward or backward, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and leaving them frozen for a short time. At level 11, the area of effect in which enemies are left frozen after the slam attack is increased. Ice Fang is the only Ice-type move not to be Beautiful.

Title: Fire Fang (move)

If you were looking for the EX Dragon theme deck, see FireFang (TCG). Fire Fang (Japanese: ほのおのキバ Flame Fang) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IV. It can be thought of as a counterpart to Ice Fang and Thunder Fang, having similar names and effects. Fire Fang deals damage and has a 10% chance of burning the opponent. It also has an independent 10% chance of causing the target to flinch, if the user attacks before the target. Due to a programming error, Fire Fang is always able to hit through Wonder Guard, even if the target does not have a weakness to Fire-type moves. Fire Fang deals damage, and may inflict a burn and/or flinch the target. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, Fire Fang is a custom move for Charizard, replacing Flamethrower. When used, Charizard will release a small stream of flames from its mouth. When the move is released, Charizard will bite down and create a small explosion in front of it. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of making the target flinch. Has a very small chance of leaving the target burned. Fire Fang is the only Fire-type move capable of making the target flinch.

Title: Shadow Sneak (move)

Shadow Sneak (Japanese: かげうち Shadow Strike) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation IV. Shadow Sneak inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Shadow Sneak's PP has been reduced to 20. It also increases the user's action speed. Shadow Sneak is Greninja's side special. It can be charged to move a further distance. Greninja can move around while charging this attack. In Pokémon GO, Shadow Sneak is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Shadow Sneak is Aegislash's first move and Decidueye's second move. Aegislash starts with the move as Honedge. The user casts a shadow in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies hit. After the shadow hits an enemy or travels its maximum distance, the user warps to the shadow's location, dealing damage to nearby enemies and increase boost count by 1. After evolving into Doublade at level 5, this move is replaced by either Sacred Sword or Shadow Claw. Decidueye can obtain the move by reaching level 8 and upgrading Astonish into it instead of Leaf Storm. The user creates a shadow that takes hold of one enemy in the area of effect, dealing damage and decreasing their movement speed by 30%, decreasing their Defense by 60%, and increasing the user's movement speed by 70% for 3s. At level 13, the Defense decrease is now 80%.

Title: Mud Bomb (move)

Mud Bomb (Japanese: どろばくだん Mud Bomb) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation IV. Mud Bomb deals damage and has a 30% chance of lowering the foe's accuracy by one stage. Mud Bomb's PP has been increased to 15. It also obscures the user for three turns. Mud Bomb deals damage and may lower the enemy's accuracy by one stage. Pokémon Omega Ruby Crimson Passion and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire Indigo Wisdom

Title: Psycho Cut (move)

Psycho Cut (Japanese: サイコカッター Psycho Cutter) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM69 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Psycho Cut deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Psycho Cut can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Psycho Cut inflicts damage. The move has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Cresselia appears on the Spear Pillar stage, often shooting Psycho Cuts around the field and sometimes shooting one large Psycho Cut as if it were a boomerang, hitting anyone that touches it. This buddy move was known as B Psycho Cut prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon UNITE, Psycho Cut is Absol's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Slash into it instead of Sucker Punch. The user throws a wide slash in front, damaging, debuffing, and slowing the Pokémon hit. This debuff applies extra damage for the next 3 times the user hits the debuffed Pokémon with an auto attack or a Psycho Cut. At level 13, the user's movement speed is increased near debuffed enemies. In Chasing to the Finish!, Gary commanded his Hatterene to use Psycho Cut. However, the move was used off-screen. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ Psycho Cut is the only physical Psychic-type move that does not make contact, outside of Z-Moves and Max Moves.

Title: Zen Headbutt (move)

Zen Headbutt (Japanese: しねんのずつき Thought Headbutt) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TR69 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM059 in Generation IX. Zen Headbutt inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of causing the target to flinch. Zen Headbutt's PP has been lowered to 10, and it lowers the target's action speed. Zen Headbutt inflicts damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of making the target flinch.

Title: Mirror Shot (move)

Mirror Shot (Japanese: ミラーショット Mirror Shot) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. Mirror Shot inflicts damage and has a 30% chance to lower the target's accuracy by one stage. Mirror Shot inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's accuracy by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Mirror Shot is a Charged Attack that has been available since December 11, 2019.

Title: Flash Cannon (move)

Flash Cannon (Japanese: ラスターカノン Luster Cannon) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM91 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM54 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Flash Cannon does damage and has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense by one stage. Flash Cannon has a 20% chance of lowering the target's defensive stats for three turns. Flash Cannon inflicts damage and may reduce the target's Sp. Defense by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Sp. Def. In Pokémon UNITE, Flash Cannon is Duraludon's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Laser Focus into it instead of Dragon Pulse. The user ruptures the ground in the designated direction; dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. Afterward, the user goes into "Cannon Mode" rooting them for 6s or if a basic attack is not made for 2.5s. While in Cannon Mode, basic attacks have longer range and deal increased damage. Stealth Rock, Dragon Tail, and boosted attacks can be used while in this mode and boosted attacks decrease the movement speed of enemies hit for a short time. At level 11, enemies in the ruptured ground's area of effect are also unable to act for 1s.

Title: Rock Climb (move)

Rock Climb (Japanese: ロッククライム Rock Climb) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was HM08 in Generation IV. It is TM100 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Rock Climb inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of confusing the opponent. Rock Climb is usable and functions as it did in previous generations. In certain games, Rock Climb requires a specific badge to use outside of battle; the Earth Badge or Icicle Badge. Rock Climb can no longer be used outside of battle. Rock Climb is a field move in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, usable via the Pokétch's Hidden Moves app, which summons a wild Bibarel to use the move. Rock Climb can no longer be used outside of battle. Rock Climb deals damage and may leave the target confused. Rock Climb and Rock Smash are the only moves to have the word rock in their name and not be Rock-type. Coincidentally, both have been HM moves at some point. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, the Gligar and Zigzagoon evolutionary lines, as well as Bidoof, cannot learn Rock Climb, despite being able to learn this move by breeding in previous generations.

Title: Defog (move)

This article is about the move Defog. For the field move Demist, see Field Move. Defog (Japanese: きりばらい Fog Wipe) is a non-damaging Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was HM05 in Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, and it was TM97 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Defog cannot be used outside of battle without the Fen Badge in Diamond and Pearl and the Relic Badge in Platinum. Defog lowers the target's evasion one stage, even if the target is behind a substitute. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Defog clears away any fog on the field, as well as Light Screen, Reflect, Safeguard, Mist, Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Stealth Rock on the target's side of the field. Defog can now be reflected with Magic Coat and no longer lowers the evasion of a Pokémon behind a substitute. Defog now clears away Spikes, Toxic Spikes, Stealth Rock, and Sticky Web on both the user's and target's side of the field. In addition to Light Screen, Reflect, Safeguard, and Mist, it also clears away Aurora Veil from the target's side of the field only. If powered up by a Flyinium Z into Z-Defog, the user's accuracy is raised by one stage. Defog now also clears terrains and the effects of G-Max Steelsurge. In certain games, Defog requires a specific badge to use outside of battle; the Fen Badge or Relic Badge. Defog clears away fog from the area. The effect lasts until the player leaves the area. HeartGold and SoulSilver to Sword and Shield, and Generation IX Defog lowers the evasiveness of all enemies in the room by one stage. In the Explorers and Adventure Squad series, it will also clear away any Mist, Safeguard, Reflect or Light Screen status conditions they might have, as well as foggy weather from the floor if present. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Clears the entire field of terrain effects. Clears all field effects from the opponents' field of play. Lowers the target's evasiveness. Description prior to Version 2.16.1 (from December 27, 2021): Clears the entire field of terrain effects. Clears all field effects from the opponents' field of play. Lowers the target's evasiveness by one stat rank. Description prior to Version 2.23.5 (from August 8, 2022): Clears the entire field of terrain and zone effects. Clears all field effects from the opponents' field of play. Lowers the target's evasiveness by one stat rank. In Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum, the Bag sprite for the HM containing Defog is mistakenly that of a Water-type HM, rather than a Flying-type one. Like Flash was in Generations I, II, and III, Defog is not critical to the completion of the game, as a player can traverse foggy areas without using the move. However, unlike with dark caves requiring Flash to light them, foggy areas affect battles within them. In the animated series, Gust and Whirlwind have sometimes been used in a similar manner to Defog. If a player teaches a Pokémon the move Defog by HM in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum, and then trades it to Pokémon HeartGold or SoulSilver, the Pokémon can be freely imported to Pokémon Black or White via the Poké Transfer, due to Defog not being needed outside of battle in HeartGold and SoulSilver. The same can be done with Whirlpool by transferring a Pokémon that learned it by HM in HeartGold or SoulSilver to Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum. Despite being able to learn Defog in previous generations, Charizard, Ledian, the Torchic evolutionary line, Seedot, Nuzleaf, Volbeat, Illumise, the Swablu evolutionary line, Castform, Chimecho, Rayquaza, Carnivine, and Rotom are all unable to learn Defog in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Kartana's ability to learn Defog might be a reference to origami pinwheels, as Kartana itself is based on origami.

Title: Trick Room (move)

Trick Room redirects here. For the Festival Plaza facility, see Festival Plaza → Haunted houses. Trick Room (Japanese: トリックルーム Trick Room) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM92 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Trick Room reverses the move order within each priority bracket so that Pokémon with a lower Speed stat attack first, while those with a higher Speed stat will attack last. Individual brackets are still maintained; moves in higher priority brackets still work before moves in lower ones regardless of Trick Room. This effect lasts for five turns, and using Trick Room counts as the first turn. Similar to Magic Room and Wonder Room, using Trick Room while it is already in effect will end it immediately. Effects that alter the order of specific priority brackets override Trick Room. Therefore, Pokémon holding Full Incense or Lagging Tail and Pokémon with Stall will go last in their priority bracket regardless of their Speed stat. Pokémon activating Quick Claw will go first in their priority bracket. Trick Room has a priority of -7, so will be used after all moves with a normal priority. From Generation V onwards, due to the way Trick Room affects Speed calculation, a quirk occurs when a Pokémon reaches effective Speed value between 1809 and 8192. The Speed is specifically calculated as such: As such, Pokémon with effective Speed of 1808 will have it reduced to 0, while one with effective Speed of 1 will have it increased to 1807. However, at 1809, the modulo part of the function will return 8191, causing it to move first even inside Trick Room. This value after that will decrease as expected, causing Pokémon with effective Speed of 1809 to be faster than Pokémon below and above that value, and Pokémon at effective Speed of 8193 to be as fast as Pokémon with effective Speed of 1 (although reaching such high Speed values requires situations incredibly unlikely to occur in regular gameplay). If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Trick Room, the user's accuracy is raised by one stage. In the Explorers and Adventure Squad series, Trick Room targets all Pokémon on the floor and randomly increases or decreases their Movement Speed by one stage (even if already at maximum or minimum). From Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity onward, Trick Room reverses any changes to Travel Speed. The Trick Room dungeon status lasts until the player's team progresses to the next floor. It will not affect the permanent Travel Speed boost of opposing Kecleon. Unlike the main series games, using Trick Room again does not end its effect. Trick Room has a special animation effect in Pokémon Battle Revolution. During this effect, a sphere of blinking and fading purple squares surround the battle area. Will's room in HeartGold and SoulSilver has a similar animation. It also has an animation when it ends or is cancelled out. In HeartGold, SoulSilver, and Platinum, a roulette choice in the Battle Arcade may result in giving a battle the Trick Room effect. Trick Room has the lowest priority of all moves. It shared this trait with Magic Room and Wonder Room in Generation V. In Fairy-Type Trickery!, Trick Room is shown to be breakable if attacked directly, something not present in the games.

Title: Draco Meteor (move)

Draco Meteor (Japanese: りゅうせいぐん Meteor Shower) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM169 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM054 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Draco Meteor inflicts damage and lowers the user's Special Attack by two stages. Draco Meteor's power has been lowered to 110, and it now lowers the user's offensive stats for three turns. Various Move Tutors will teach Draco Meteor to a Dragon-type Pokémon. From Generation IV to VII, the Pokémon also needs a maximized friendship rating. It can be taught to Arceus while it is holding the Draco Plate and to Silvally while it is holding the Dragon Memory. However, in Pokémon Sword and Shield and Pokémon Legends: Arceus, any form of Arceus or Silvally will be allowed to learn the move. The move cannot be taught to Pokémon that only become Dragon types via Mega Evolution, Ultra Burst, Terastallization, or Abilities such as Protean and Libero, as their Dragon type cannot be accessed outside of battle. The Move Tutors are: DPPtBDSP: Grandma Wilma in her house on Route 210. SMUSUM: a female Ace Trainer in the Pokémon Center in Seafolk Village. SwSh: an elderly man in the Hero's Bath in Circhester. Draco Meteor inflicts damage on enemies in the room. The user's Sp. Attack is then reduced by two stages. Whereas Draco Meteor was exclusively a tutor move in main series prior to Generation IX, it is taught differently in Mystery Dungeon: In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, all available Dragon-type Pokémon can learn Draco Meteor at level 72 if it has at least 300 IQ points. If this requirement is not met until after level 72, Draco Meteor can be relearned at Electivire Link Shop. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity, all Dragon-type Pokémon can learn Draco Meteor by TM. The TM is obtained once Paradise reaches Perfect Rank. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, once the player finishes the epilogue's story arc, all Dragon-type Pokémon can learn Draco Meteor at Hawlucha's Slam School at a price of 11,000. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX, the move can be taught at Gulpin Link Shop after completing the main story at a price of 11,000. In Pokémon GO, Draco Meteor is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 9, 2018. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (released on June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the user's Sp. Atk. Steven (Anniversary 2021) & Rayquaza's passive skill Downside Up makes this move boost their Sp. Atk by two stat ranks after use, instead of lowering it. Drasna & Dragalge's passive skill Team Sp. Atk ↓ Immunity and Ryuki & Turtonator's passive skill Dauntless both prevent this move from lowering their Sp. Atk after use. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until July 29, 2022, which was 911 days after its release date (on January 30, 2020). Zinnia & Rayquaza's power boost is only accessible through the villain event Team Aqua's Stormy Seas. Even the Dragon Zone, which powers up Dragon-type attacks, must not be present for this attack's condition to be fulfilled. Main text prior to Version 2.16.1 (released on December 27, 2021): Become Mega Altaria until the end of battle. This move's power increases if there are no field effects on the opponents' field of play and also no effects on the entire field of play, including weather or terrain effects. 6★ EX effect's description prior to Version 2.18.5 (released on March 15, 2022): Additional Effects: Power of sync move increases by 50%. Main text from Version 2.16.1 to Version 2.20.0 (released on April 27, 2022): Become Mega Altaria until the end of battle. This move's power increases when there are no field effects on the opponents' field of play and also no effects on the entire field of play, including weather, terrain, or zone effects. In November 2005, prior to the release of Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, it was announced that, in the following year, the January issue of Japanese magazine CoroCoro Comics would run a contest in which fans could propose name ideas for a new Dragon-type move. In May of the same year, りゅうせいぐん Ryūseigun, later localized as Draco Meteor, was announced as the winner. The りゅう ryū on its Japanese name can be read as "dragon", a likely inspiration for the move's Dragon type. The name Draco Meteor is likely a reference to the draconids, a meteor shower named after the constellation Draco (Latin for dragon), where they seemingly come from. In Pokémon Masters EX, Miracle Idol Draco Meteor is the only Dragon-type attack that is less powerful in a Dragon Zone (1.5× damage) than outside of it (2× damage if no field effects are present).

Title: Discharge (move)

Discharge (Japanese: ほうでん Electrical Discharge) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM039 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Discharge damages all Pokémon except the user in Double Battles and has a 30% chance of paralyzing each of them. In Triple Battles, Discharge damages all adjacent Pokémon. Discharge can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. Discharge deals damage on enemies in the same room. It may inflict paralysis. This move never misses when used by Iono & Kilowattrel due to their passive skill Piercing Gaze. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of leaving the target paralyzed. In Pokémon UNITE, Discharge is Zeraora's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 8 and upgrading Slash into it instead of Wild Charge. The user emits an electric aura, damaging all enemies within the aura and granting a shield to the user when it hits. Any paralyzed enemies within the area of effect are pulled towards the user when the move ends, damaging and stunning them. At level 14, the move also slows down enemies. Ghetsis's Eelektross was revealed to know Discharge on the official website, but it has never shown using the move. This move's name is the same as the category of Manectric.

Title: Lava Plume (move)

Lava Plume (Japanese: ふんえん Volcanic Plume) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IV. Lava Plume damages all adjacent Pokémon in Double and Triple Battles. It also has a 30% chance of burning each of them. Lava Plume will destroy round rocks found in the background of battles. Lava Plume deals damage to nearby enemies and may leave them with a burn. Mela commanded her Torkoal to use Lava Plume in PASV16, but it was interrupted by Violet's Clodsire's Mud Shot. Since Generation VI, Lava Plume has the same description text as Searing Shot.

Title: Leaf Storm (move)

Leaf Storm (Japanese: リーフストーム Leaf Storm) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TR71 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM159 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Leaf Storm deals damage, and lowers the user's Special Attack by two stages. Leaf Storm's power has been lowered to 110. It lowers the user's offensive stats for three turns. Leaf Storm deals damage and reduces the user's Special Attack by two stages. In Pokémon GO, Leaf Storm is a Charged Attack that was made available on April 12, 2021. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the user's Sp. Atk. In Pokémon UNITE, Leaf Storm is Decidueye's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 8 and upgrading Astonish into it instead of Shadow Sneak. The user creates a tempest of sharp leaves, dealing damage to enemies it hits and decreases their movement speed by 30% for a short time. At point-blank range, it also shoves and stuns enemies hit. At level 13, the movement speed reduction's duration is increased. Prior to Generation VI, Leaf Storm was the only Grass-type Cute move. In Pokémon Black and White, School Kid Ann on Route 12 has a Sandy Cloak Wormadam that knows Leaf Storm, despite it being a move that Sandy Cloak Wormadam cannot learn by any means; it is instead learned by Plant Cloak Wormadam. Instead of Leaf Storm, the Sandy Cloak Wormadam should know Fissure.

Title: Power Whip (move)

Power Whip (Japanese: パワーウィップ Power Whip) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TR72 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Power Whip inflicts damage and has no secondary effect.

Title: Rock Wrecker (move)

Rock Wrecker (Japanese: がんせきほう Rock Cannon) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation IV. In Generation IV and Generation IX, it is the signature move of Rhyperior. Rock Wrecker inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. Unless this attack misses, the user will always have to recharge. Pokémon with the Bulletproof Ability are immune to Rock Wrecker. Rock Wrecker inflicts damage. If the move hit successfully, the user is inflicted with the recoil status condition (Paused prior to Gates to Infinity) for 1 turn. This status prevents the user from taking any actions. In Pokémon GO, Rock Wrecker is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 22, 2020. Rock Wrecker is tied with Head Smash for having the highest base power of all Rock-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Continental Crush based on either of them has the highest base power of all Rock-type moves.

Title: Cross Poison (move)

Cross Poison (Japanese: クロスポイズン Cross Poison) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM73 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Cross Poison deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It has a 10% chance of poisoning the opponent. Cross Poison can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Cross Poison deals damage, and may poison the target. It has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Critical hits land more easily. Has a very small chance of leaving the target poisoned. This buddy move was known as B Cross Poison prior to version 2.38.0. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. Emma & Crobat's passive skill Critical Sync makes their use of this move always become a critical hit, except in certain circumstances. Cross Poison is the only move in its variation to have a secondary effect.

Title: Gunk Shot (move)

Gunk Shot (Japanese: ダストシュート Dust Shoot) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation IV. Gunk Shot deals damage and has a 30% chance of poisoning the target. Gunk Shot deals damage and may leave the target poisoned. In Camping It Up!, it was revealed by Dawn's Pokédex that the Grimer that she used at the Pokémon Summer Academy knew Gunk Shot. However, it was never seen using the move. Gunk Shot is tied with Belch for having the highest base power of all Poison-type moves, excluding Venoshock used on a poisoned target and Z-Moves. An Acid Downpour based on either of them has the highest base power of all Poison-type moves.

Title: Iron Head (move)

Iron Head (Japanese: アイアンヘッド Iron Head) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. Iron Head inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. If Zacian or Zamazenta know Iron Head while entering battle in their Crowned Sword or Crowned Shield forms, Iron Head will become Behemoth Blade or Behemoth Bash, respectively, for the duration of the battle. Iron Head's PP has been reduced to 10. It also lowers the target's action speed. Irone Head inflicts damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. Zacian and Zamazenta must know Iron Head in order to change into their Crowned Sword and Crowned Shield forms. When changing forms, Iron Head becomes Behemoth Blade and Behemoth Bash, respectively. Description Prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch. In Pokémon UNITE, Iron Head is Aegislash's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 8 and upgrading Iron Defense into it instead of Wide Guard. The user dashes in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies hit. Also increases boost count by 1, and protects the user with a special shield for a short time afterward. This shield doesn't protect from hindrances, but it can nullify damage. When the shield blocks an attack, it disappears and boost count is increased by 1. At level 13, if an attack is blocked with this move, the user gains +10% Attack for a short time. In Sword and Shield: The Legends Awaken!, Zacian and Zamazenta were both confirmed to know Iron Head through their use of Behemoth Blade and Behemoth Bash, respectively. However, they have never been seen using it. In Fwoom!! Goodbye, Galar, Zacian and Zamazenta were both confirmed to know Iron Head through their use of Behemoth Blade and Behemoth Bash, respectively. However, they have never been seen using it.

Title: Magnet Bomb (move)

Magnet Bomb (Japanese: マグネットボム Magnet Bomb) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM126 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Magnet Bomb inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Magnet Bomb does not affect targets with Bulletproof.

Title: Stone Edge (move)

Stone Edge (Japanese: ストーンエッジ Stone Edge) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM71 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, it can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Splintered Stormshards by Lycanroc holding Lycanium Z. Stone Edge deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Stone Edge can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Stone Edge's projectiles erupt from the ground. If an intended target(s) is too high in the air, Stone Edge will not make contact. Stone Edge deals damage. This move has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). After Mega Evolving, Hilda (Special Costume) & Diancie's passive skill Fuel Economy 1 makes this move cost only two move gauge slots to use.

Title: Captivate (move)

Captivate (Japanese: ゆうわく Allure) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. It was TM78 in Generation IV. Captivate lowers the Special Attack stat of the target by two stages, if it is the opposite gender of the user. It targets all adjacent opponents. Gender-unknown Pokémon (such as Magnemite) and Pokémon with the Ability Oblivious are unaffected by this move. It always fails if the user is a gender-unknown Pokémon. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Captivate, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by two stages. Captivate lowers the enemy's Sp. Attack by 2 stages. Prior to Gates to Infinity, this move will only work if the user is the opposite gender of the target, but this mechanic has subsequently been removed. Mew is the only Pokémon of unknown gender that can learn this move: Mew is able to learn any TM, and can learn it by TM78 in Generation IV. It is likely that Nincada cannot learn Captivate because all moves a Nincada has are transferred to a shed-off Shedinja when it evolves into Ninjask, thus giving the gender-unknown Shedinja a useless move. The same is the case with Attract.

Title: Stealth Rock (move)

Stealth Rock (Japanese: ステルスロック Stealth Rock) is a non-damaging Rock-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM76 in Generation IV and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. TM56 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Stealth Rock sets an entry hazard around the target Pokémon. Pokémon on the target's field receive damage upon switching in. The amount of damage inflicted upon switching in is affected by the effectiveness of Rock against the target, starting at 1/8 of the target's maximum HP at normal effectiveness. Stealth Rock does not stack. It does not damage Pokémon with the Ability Magic Guard. Rapid Spin removes Stealth Rock from the user's side of the field if it affects its target; Defog removes the effect of Stealth Rock from the target's side of the field if it affects its target. The damage is taken from the victim's maximum HP, and follows: The damage is rounded down, but if the calculation returns zero, it will do 1 HP damage. As Castform transforms after entry hazards take effect, Castform only takes 12.5% damage, regardless of the weather. Stealth Rock is unaffected by strong winds. In an Inverse Battle, Stealth Rock uses the inverted weakness and resistance to Rock to calculate damage. Stealth Rock can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Circle Throw, Dragon Tail, Roar, and Whirlwind to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Any Pokémon that appear after calling for help during SOS Battles are subject to Stealth Rock. If powered up by a Rockium Z into Z-Stealth Rock, it will raise the user's Defense stat by one stage. Using G-Max Stonesurge and Stone Axe will set up Stealth Rock on the target's side of the field. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Stealth Rock is a physical move that deals direct damage with a base power of 40. It also leaves the target with splinters for 4 turns (Strong Style), 2 turns (Agile Style), or 3 turns (otherwise). Stealth Rock spawns floating stones in front of the user. Enemy Pokémon touching the stones take damage equal to ⌊RockEffectiveness×MaxHP8⌋, though not less than 1. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Stealth Rock is a damage-dealing move, so Rock-type Pokémon receive STAB when using it. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Stealth Rock is a damage-dealing move, so Rock-type Pokémon receive STAB when using it. Stealth Rock causes the user to create a Stealth Rock trap underneath them, as long as it is a land tile that is neither stairs nor Kecleon Shop carpet. The trap also cannot be laid in hallways and the entrance of a room. In the Explorers series, any Pokémon that triggers a Stealth Rock receives damage equal to 12.5% of their maximum HP, regardless of the type matchup. Rock-type Pokémon are immune. In Gates to Infinity, damage is now affected by type and Rock-types are not immune. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the damage ranges from 7.4% of the user's max HP (if both the user's types resist the Rock-type), 8.4% (one type resists the Rock-type), 9.6% (neutral damage from the Rock-type), 11.4% (weak against Rock-type), and 13.6% (both types weak against the Rock-type). In Pokémon UNITE, Stealth Rock is Crustle's and Duraludon's second move. Crustle can obtain the move by reaching level 6 and upgrading Fury Cutter into it instead of X-Scissor. The user aims and creates a radius in which rocks hit enemies 8 times. Each hit applies a stack of a debuff which causes subsequent hits to deal 15% more damage. Additional damage from this debuff is always rounded up. Stealth Rock can critically hit, however, the user's base critical hit chance is 0%. At level 13, this attack hits two more times. Duraludon can obtain the move by reaching level 7 and upgrading Metal Claw into it instead of Dragon Tail. The user hurls a stone at the designated area, creating an invisible field of stones for 60s or until triggered. The field deals damage over time to enemies in the area of effect and decreases their movement speed by 15% for 2s. If the hurled stone hits an enemy before the designated area, the field will instead be centered on where the stone hit that Pokémon. Once an enemy takes damage from the field, it will become visible to all enemies. If an enemy takes damage from this move 4 times, that enemy becomes unable to move for 1s. After this move is used, the user's next basic attack becomes a boosted attack. A maximum of 2 uses can be kept in reserve for this move. There is a 1.1s cooldown between uses. A maximum of 3 Stealth Rocks may be on the game field at one time, but 3 more can still be kept in reserve. At level 13, this move can store an extra use in reserve.

Title: Grass Knot (move)

Grass Knot (Japanese: くさむすび Grass Knot) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV that deals varying damage. TM86 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Grass Knot doesn't have a standard base power; rather, its damage is calculated based on the weight of the target. Grass Knot's power is calculated as follows (note that the game uses weight in kilograms instead of pounds for all the cutoffs). In games where height and weight are variable between members of the same species, Grass Knot ignores those variations and considers only the base weight given to the target's species in the Pokédex. Grass Knot will fail if it is used on a Dynamaxed target. Grass Knot deals damage depending on the weight of the target. The heavier the target, the greater the damage dealt. In the Explorers and Adventure Sqaud series, the damage calculation is as follows. In Pokémon GO, Grass Knot is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017.

Title: Chatter (move)

Chatter (Japanese: おしゃべり Chatter) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Chatot. Chatter inflicts damage and can confuse the target. In Generations IV and V, the player can record audio on this move by using it as a field move, which affects its chance of inflicting confusion. If Chatter has recorded audio (via its field move functionality), that audio will play for the move's sound effect instead of Chatot's regular cry. Chatter can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If Chatter has no audio data, the chance of confusion is 1%. If it has recorded audio, its chance of inflicting confusion is 1%, 11% or 31% (depending on the recording). Chatter will always have a 0% chance to confuse if used by a Pokémon other than Chatot. The odds of confusion are not affected by Serene Grace, but are affected by Shield Dust. If Chatter has no audio data, the chance of confusion is now 0%. If it has recorded audio, its chance of inflicting confusion is 0% or 10% (depending on the recording). The confusion odds are affected by Shield Dust, Serene Grace, Sheer Force, and the combined effect of Water Pledge and Fire Pledge. Chatter deals damage and now always confuses the target. Chatter can no longer be used outside of battle to record sound. Despite the removal of its field move functionality, Chatter still cannot be copied by Sketch; however, it can be copied by Mirror Move. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, Chatter cannot be selected in a battle. In Generations IV and V, Chatter can be used as a field move to record audio using the Nintendo DS's microphone. This audio will then play as Chatot's cry, as well as when Chatot uses Chatter. Audio recorded for Chatter gets distorted, possibly as a failsafe to prevent inappropriate language from being played back. If all Chatots are removed from the player's party, such as by depositing them into the PC or trading them to another player, the recorded audio will be reset to Chatot's default cry. In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver only, due to an oversight, depositing Chatot into the PC will not cause its cry to be reset. It will only be reset if the player trades, deposits a Pokémon into the daycare, or offers a Pokémon for trade on the GTS, and afterwards does not have a Chatot in their party. In Generation IV and V, the chance of inflicting confusion depends on the volume of the recording. Generally, the higher the volume of the recording is, the higher the chance of confusion. The recording is stored as a 1000-byte structure within the game as a 4-bit PCM (pulse-code modulation) recording. When a sound is recorded, 1984 8-bit samples of microphone input are taken at roughly 2000 samples per second. 16 zero bytes are appended onto the end of this recording to create a 2000 byte 8-bit PCM recording, which is then downsized to a 4-bit PCM recording via a translation table: To pack two 4-bit samples into a byte, the first sample takes up the lower four bits and the second sample takes up the upper four bits. Now, depending on the value of the 16th byte in the 1000-byte 4-bit PCM recording (corresponding to the 31st and 32nd samples from the original), the chance of confusion is as follows: The volume level roughly corresponding to the specific values are given in the table. Note that since the sample is near the beginning of the recording, it is not necessary to maintain a high volume throughout the recording. If Chatter has no audio data, the chance of confusion is 0%. Generation V games record 8000 8-bit samples at 8000 samples per second for its recordings, and convert every fourth sample taken from these, starting with the first sample, to the 1000-byte 4-bit PCM recording in the same manner as that of Generation IV. However, instead of one byte determining the confusion odds, the exclusive or of three bytes, the 100th, 500th, and 700th bytes (corresponding to the 397th, 401st, 1997th, 2001st, 2797th and 2801st samples of the original recording), are taken. The odds of confusion are calculated as follows: Thus, it is necessary to maintain medium or high volume in roughly the first quarter-second for the maximum odds of confusion. Chatter deals damage and may leave the target confused. From Super Mystery Dungeon, it always inflicts confusion on the targets it hits. Chatter is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Being a sound-based move, it is blocked by Soundproof. Chatter is one of only a few moves in the core series that can not be Sketched. This is presumably because, as a field move, if Chatter is used by a Pokémon other than Chatot, that Pokémon's cry will not be temporarily changed to the recorded version even if audio is recorded. This is because recording audio via Chatter is programmed to switch Chatter's user to its alternative cry, and only Chatot is programmed to have its alternative cry read from the audio data. Despite all of this, Chatter still cannot be Sketched even in Generations VI, VII and VIII, where vocals can no longer be recorded. Prior to the discontinuation of Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, Chatot was banned from the Pokémon Global Battle Union, presumably because of Chatter being abused to record vulgar words and phrases. This abuse is also presumably the reason for the ability to record audio for the move being removed, starting with Generation VI. In Pokémon X and Y, Chatter's description mentions the field move functionality, despite the fact Chatter could no longer be used for recording sound. This was rectified starting in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. Chatter is the only non-HM field move in the original Pokémon Diamond and Pearl to not be a field move in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl.

Title: Judgment (move)

Judgment (Japanese: さばきのつぶて Judgment Pebble) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Arceus and varies in type depending on the Plate held by the user. Judgment inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. The type of Judgment depends on the type of Plate held by the user, being Normal-type if there is no held Plate. If Magic Room is in effect, Judgment's type will always be Normal regardless of the Plate held. Judgment is unaffected by Normalize, Pixilate, Refrigerate, and Aerilate. However, it is affected by Ion Deluge (if the move would be Normal-type) and Electrify. Judgment's type is unaffected by Z-Crystals held by the user, remaining a Normal-type move. Judgment is programmed into Pokémon Sword and Shield, but cannot be selected in a battle as no available Pokémon can learn it. However, it can be called by Metronome. It has no animation, so the game will crash if battle effects are enabled. Judgment works like it did in previous generations. Judgment's PP was reduced to 5. Judgment's type is now determined by which Plate Arceus last interacted with, and thus the move will match Arceus's current type. When used by another Pokémon through Mimic, Judgment will always be Normal-type regardless of what type it was when copied by Mimic. Unlike in other games, Judgment's animation is slightly different depending on which of the eighteen types it is currently using. The move's function drastically changes if the last plate Arceus interacted with is the Legend Plate. In battle, Arceus gains the ability to change type when using Judgment, based on the selected opponent's type. While selecting a move, Judgment displays the type that it will become against the selected opponent, if used that turn. This is similar to Unown's signature move Hidden Power. Judgment will become a type that is super effective against the target, prioritizing any double weaknesses of dual-type targets. If multiple types are equally effective, Judgment will change to a type that best resists the target's primary type, prioritizing immunities, regardless of what the target's secondary type may be. Since Palkia’s primary type is Water, Judgment will always become Dragon. Since Giratina’s primary type is Ghost, Judgment will always become Dark. Although Fairy is immune to their secondary Dragon typing, it does not resist Water or Ghost. If multiple types are still equally valid, Judgment will change to the type that best resists the target's secondary type, if any. Otherwise one type is chosen at random. This calculation is done on each turn, so if there are multiple valid types, Judgment's type may vary between them each turn. At the start of battle Arceus will be a Normal type. Upon using Judgment, Arceus will first transform into whatever type Judgment has chosen, and then use the move. This means Judgment will always receive a same-type attack bonus. Arceus will transform even if Judgment misses the opponent. Arceus will not transform however, if the move could not be executed due to its paralysis or drowsy status condition. Arceus will also revert back into a Normal type at the end of battle. The following table indicates which type Judgment will become based on every possible type combination. Note that some type combinations have multiple possible outputs, which Judgment selects between randomly. Since Judgment's type only depends on the held Plate, its type will not be changed if the user Terastallizes into a type different to the Plate's type. While neither Arceus nor Judgment are legitimately obtainable prior to WiiWare games, the move still exists in Explorers of Time, Darkness and Sky data—in the Japanese versions its original name of さばきのつぶて has been retained, while in the English versions it was replaced with the placeholder name of $$$. Both languages only include the same placeholder as its description. Since Plates do not exist, it instead uses the user's primary type. In the WiiWare games, Judgment's type depends on the version of the game played. In Keep Going! Blazing Adventure Squad, it is a Fire-type move; in Let's Go! Stormy Adventure Squad, it is a Water-type move; and in Go For It! Light Adventure Squad, it is an Electric-type move. This is due to the absence of Plates and to the fact that Arceus instead takes the type represented by each version. The move is unobtainable and has only dummy data in Gates to Infinity as Arceus does not appear in the game. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Judgment deals damage as if it were the same type as the user. Again due to the absence of Plates, this will almost always be Normal-type damage. However, Judgment will change to Water-type if the user's type is changed with Soak (but not if a type is added to the user due to Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat). In Pokémon Rumble Rush, Judgment's type varies for each Arceus obtained. In the English dub of Arceus and the Jewel of Life, Arceus consistently says the word "Justice" whenever using this move. Judgment and Revelation Dance have the only battle mechanics affected by the order of a Pokémon's types (not counting a glitch affecting Present in Gold and Silver). During the boss battle against Arceus in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can use Judgment several times in a row.

Title: Bug Bite (move)

Bug Bite (Japanese: むしくい Bug Bite) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM182 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Bug Bite inflicts damage. If the target is holding a Berry, the user will eat the Berry and gain its effect. Bug Bite will not eat the target's Berry if it hits its substitute. Bug Bite will not consume the Berry of a target that has the Ability Sticky Hold. Berries like Liechi or Sitrus Berries will be eaten by the attacker, regardless of them meeting their consumption requirement upon taking damage from Bug Bite. If the user has the Ability Klutz or is affected by Embargo, it will consume the target's held Berry without gaining its effect. Bug Bite will eat the target's Jaboca and Tanga Berries before the Berry can activate. The user will now receive the effects of the target's held Berry even if it has the Ability Klutz or is affected by Embargo. The effect of a Jaboca or Tanga Berry will now activate before the Berry can be eaten. Bug Bite will fail when used in a Max Raid Battle. Bug Bite inflicts damage. It will consume the target's food item if present, such as a Seed or Apple. If Bug Bite is used on any member of the player's team, the enemy will pick an item from the Bag. This move is affected by the Muzzled status condition. Despite its name, Bug Bite is not a biting move and does not receive a power boost when used by a Pokémon with Strong Jaw.

Title: Charge Beam (move)

Charge Beam (Japanese: チャージビーム Charge Beam) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation IV. TM57 from Generation IV to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Charge Beam deals damage and has a 70% chance of raising the user's Special Attack by one stage. Due to a glitch, if the user has Serene Grace and is under the effects of the rainbow from the combination of Fire Pledge and Water Pledge, the additional effect chance is calculated as 280%, which overflows and becomes 24%. Charge Beam can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. The glitch in which Charge Beam's additional effect chance overflows has been fixed. Charge Beam inflicts damage, and may also raise the user's Sp. Attack by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Charge Beam is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Charge Beam is the only move with a 70% chance of a secondary effect happening.

Title: Wood Hammer (move)

Wood Hammer (Japanese: ウッドハンマー Wood Hammer) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. Wood Hammer inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 33% of the damage done to the target. Wood Hammer's PP has been reduced to 5, and its power has been lowered to 100. Wood Hammer deals damage, and the user receives recoil damage. In the Explorers series, the recoil damage is equal to ⅛ of the user's maximum HP. From Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, the recoil damage is instead 20% of the user's max HP. In Pokémon UNITE, Wood Hammer is Trevenant's first move. It is obtained by evolving at level 5 and upgrading Will-O-Wisp into it instead of Curse. The user pulls back its arms and attacks, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and pulls them in front of the user, leaving them unable to act for .5s. If this attack deals damage to at least one enemy, a follow-up attack will be available for 5s. This follow-up attack slams down a giant wooden hammer in front of the user, dealing damage to any enemy it hits, and leaving them unable to act for .6s. The lower the user's HP, the longer the enemy will be left unable to act. Every time this move is used, it consumes 10% of the user's current HP. At level 11, enemies hit by the second hammer have their damage reduced by 20% for 3s.

Title: Aqua Jet (move)

Aqua Jet (Japanese: アクアジェット Aqua Jet) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IV. Aqua Jet inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Like all other moves that previously possessed priority, Aqua Jet causes the user to dash forward to make damaging contact with the target (although terrain may interfere with doing so). During the dash, the user is intangible and will not make contact with projectiles and hazards that they pass through. Crashdown Aqua Jet: Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target is flinching. In Mine Mayhem, Black's Tirtouga, Costa, was told to use Aqua Jet, but he ignored the command. Since its introduction in Generation IV, Aqua Jet has had the same description text as Quick Attack.

Title: Attack Order (move)

Attack Order (Japanese: こうげきしれい Attack Order) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is one of the signature moves of Vespiquen, alongside Defend Order and Heal Order. Attack Order deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Attack Order can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Attack Order inflicts damage and has an increased critical-hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). While Attack Order has never made a proper animated series debut, it was used by a Vespiquen in the Professor Oak's Big Pokémon Encyclopedia segment for DP047.

Title: Defend Order (move)

Defend Order (Japanese: ぼうぎょしれい Defense Order) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is one of the signature moves of Vespiquen, alongside Attack Order and Heal Order. Defend Order increases the user's Defense and Special Defense stats by one stage each. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Defend Order, the user's Defense stat rises by another stage. Defend Order raises the user's Defense and Sp. Defense by one stage each.

Title: Heal Order (move)

Heal Order (Japanese: かいふくしれい Recovery Order) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is one of the signature moves of Vespiquen, alongside Attack Order and Defend Order. Heal Order restores up to 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded down. Heal Order now restores 50% of the user's maximum HP, rounded up. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Heal Order, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In the Explorers series, Heal Order restores 25% of the user's max HP. In the Adventure Squad series, the move always restores 40 HP regardless of user's max HP. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the move restores 40% of user's max HP. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Heal Order could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Heal Order could be seen as a move used by Boss Vespiquen. In Vexing Vespiquen & Unmanageable Mothim I, a Roughneck tried to tell his Vespiquen to use Heal Order, but Vespiquen's grubs were too confused to execute the command. In Generation VIII and IX, Heal Order is the only one of Vespiquen's signature moves that cannot be used in a battle.

Title: Head Smash (move)

Head Smash (Japanese: もろはのずつき Double-Edged Headbutt) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation IV. Head Smash inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ½ of the damage done to the target. Head Smash inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 25% / 30% of their maximum HP Diantha & Tyrantrum and Perrin & Growlithe take no recoil damage from using this move due to their passive skills Recoil Removal 9 and Sure Hit & Recoil Removal, respectively. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In HeartGold and SoulSilver's game data, Nosepass can learn Head Smash via breeding, but no Pokémon that could learn it at the time were in Nosepass's Egg Group, Mineral, making it impossible to pass down the move without the use of the Rage glitch. This learnset data was then removed in Generation V, but brought back in Generation IX where it can also learn the move from Sudowoodo, which could learn the move since Generation VII. Head Smash is tied with Rock Wrecker for the highest base power of all Rock-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Continental Crush based on either of them has the highest base power of all Rock-type moves. Head Smash is the only Rock-type move that causes recoil damage. It also has the highest base power of all recoil moves.

Title: Double Hit (move)

Double Hit (Japanese: ダブルアタック Double Attack) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM132 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Double Hit inflicts damage, hitting twice per use. Each strike has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Double Hit will hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate twice. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. Double Hit is now a status move with 10 PP that causes the user to become Primed, causing its attack moves to deal 50% more damage. It also increases the user's action speed. An Aipom that knows this move will evolve into Ambipom when leveled up. Double Hit damages the enemy twice. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pokémon UNITE, Double Hit is one of Scizor's possible second moves. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and choosing to upgrade Quick Attack into it instead of Swords Dance. Double Hit has the user jump in the designated direction, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon it hits during the jump and applying a mark on them. After hitting opposing Pokémon, it jumps again in the designated direction. When the user lands, its next basic attack becomes a boosted attack, and the user charges at an opposing Pokémon. If the user knocks out a marked opposing Pokémon, all of the user's move cooldowns are reset. By reaching level 13, Double Hit is upgraded into Double Hit+, and the move's cooldown is reduced.

Title: Spacial Rend (move)

Spacial Rend (Japanese: あくうせつだん Subspace Tear) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Palkia. Spacial Rend deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Spacial Rend can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Spacial Rend could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it can be selected and functions as it did in previous generations. Spacial Rend's base power was reduced to 90. If used by Origin Forme Palkia, Spacial Rend's animation, base power, accuracy, and critical-hit ratio are changed. Spacial Rend deals damage to all enemies in the room. The move has an increased critical hit ratio (30% in the Explorers and Adventure Squad series). Palkia is available in a special mission. Palkia's Spacial Rend distorts Almia, causing many strange things to happen, such as people warping when they pass through doors and fishermen fishing on sand or lava. While being captured, Palkia uses Spacial Rend to warp the capture location at timed intervals, causing effects such as flames or ice spurting from the ground. In Pokémon GO, Spacial Rend is a Charged Attack that was available on February 24, 2024. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle can extend the radius of players' reach for finding wild Pokémon. It costs 5,000 Stardust and 5 Palkia Candy and lasts for 10 minutes. When summoned, Palkia uses Spacial Rend to flip the stage perspective temporarily. The attack can also damage fighters that make contact. When used in strong style by Origin Forme Palkia, Spacial Rend has the highest base critical hit rate of all moves, at +3. Spacial Rend is the only signature move of the Pokémon of myth that has its base power reduced when used by one of the member's Origin Formes. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Palkia's Spacial Rend animation changes depending if it's on its standard or Origin Forme. During Origin Forme Palkia and Arceus's boss battles in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, both can use a charged, undodgeable version of Spacial Rend, but this attack can be cancelled by hitting them with Space and Mysterious Balms respectively, eventually stunning them.

Title: Lunar Dance (move)

Lunar Dance (Japanese: みかづきのまい Crescent Moon Dance) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is one of the signature moves of Cresselia. Lunar Dance causes the user to faint, but restores the HP and PP of the Pokémon that is sent out to take its place as well as removing all status conditions (except fainting). If the user moves before the opponent, the restored Pokémon is then sent out before the end of its turn. The receiving Pokémon is now sent out at the end of the turn after all other Pokémon have moved. If powered up with a Psychium Z into Z-Lunar Dance, the move will gain no additional effects. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Lunar Dance could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable. If the Pokémon sent out to replace the user already has full health, no status condition, and full PP, Lunar Dance's effect will not activate until a Pokémon is placed in that position (either by switching in or using Ally Switch). A pending Lunar Dance will not activate if a Pokémon already in that position loses HP, gains a status condition, or loses PP; it will only activate when a new Pokémon is placed in that position. Each position can only have a single instance of Lunar Dance pending (using it multiple times does not stack). Lunar Dance can stack with Healing Wish. If used in a Max Raid Battle or Tera Raid Battle, Lunar Dance fails, and the user does not faint. Lunar Dance targets all other team members in the same room, restoring their HP (to max HP), PP, and curing them of bad status conditions. The user's HP is reduced to 1 after using the move. In the Explorers and Adventure Sqaud series, the PP will be fully restored, however from Super Mystery Dungeon, the PP is only restored by 5.

Title: Crush Grip (move)

Crush Grip (Japanese: にぎりつぶす Grip Crush) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Regigigas. Crush Grip deals damage. Its power is greater the more HP the target has. Its power varies between 1 and 121. It is calculated as: Its power now varies between 1 and 120. It is calculated as: In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Crush Grip could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Crush Grip deals damage. Its power is increased the higher the enemy's current HP. In the Explorers and Adventure Squad series, the damage dealt is multiplied by ½ if the enemy's HP is at 51-75%, 51/256 (~0.2×) when at 26-50% and 25/256 (~0.1×) when at 25% or lower. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the multiplier ranges from 1.0x to 0.0x based on the target's current HP percentage, dealing a minimum of 1 damage.

Title: Magma Storm (move)

Magma Storm (Japanese: マグマストーム Magma Storm) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Heatran. Magma Storm deals damage and binds the target for two to five turns. A bound target cannot switch out or flee, and takes damage equal to 1/16 of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a bound Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. If a Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball, it can flee even when bound (but still cannot switch out); if a Pokémon has a Shed Shell, it can switch out even when bound (but cannot flee). A Pokémon can only be bound by one move at a time, and the effect disappears if the user is no longer on the field. If the user of Magma Storm is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 5 turns. Magma Storm has an accuracy of 70% and a base power of 120. Magma Storm now traps the target for four to five turns. If the user of Magma Storm is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will be 7 turns. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the target takes damage equal to 1/8 of its maximum HP instead of 1/16. A Pokémon bound by Magma Storm now takes damage equal to 1/8 of its maximum HP at the end of each turn. If the user is holding a Binding Band, the target takes damage equal to 1/6 of its maximum HP instead. Ghost-type Pokémon cannot be trapped by Magma Storm. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Magma Storm could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Magma Storm's power has been lowered to 90. It will always burn the target. Magma Storm deals damage and may inflict the Constriction status condition on the enemy which renders the enemy unable to move (though it may attack) and lose 5 HP every two turns. This status lasts for 4-6 turns. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the move may instead inflict the Magma Storm status condition for 6 turns, which renders the enemy unable to move (though it may attack) and lose 10 HP every two turns. In Pokémon GO, Magma Storm is a Charged Attack that has been available since June 29, 2023. Magma Storm has the highest power of all binding moves.

Title: Dark Void (move)

This article is about the move Dark Void. For the Field Move Dark Power, see Field Move (Ranger). Dark Void (Japanese: ダークホール Dark Hole) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Darkrai. Dark Void puts all adjacent foes to sleep, with an accuracy of 80% for each Pokémon. Targets with Insomnia or Vital Spirit as their Ability or under the effects of Sweet Veil are unaffected by Dark Void. If sleep clause is active in Pokémon Battle Revolution in a Double Battle, Dark Void will only put one foe to sleep and will fail on the other Pokémon. Dark Void can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Dream Eater, Hex, Nightmare and Wake-Up Slap) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Dark Void's accuracy was reduced to 50% for each Pokémon. Dark Void can now only be successfully used by Darkrai (or a Pokémon that has transformed into Darkrai). Despite this, Dark Void is still selectable by Metronome, even though Darkrai cannot use Metronome. If this move is used by any other Pokémon (including via moves that call other moves), the move will fail, displaying the battle text "But <Pokémon> can't use the move!". Dark Void will not fail when reflected by Magic Bounce. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Dark Void, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Dark Void's accuracy was raised to 90%, and lowers the user's action priority. It makes the target drowsy and lowers its defensive stats. Like all other moves in this game, it targets only one Pokémon. In Versions 1.0 to 1.3.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Dark Void could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 2.0.1, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Dark Void is a Special move with 60 power that inflicts damage, makes targets drowsy, and restores HP to the user equal to 50% of the damage dealt. Dark Void inflicts double damage to targets that are already drowsy. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Dark Void is a special move, so Darkrai receives STAB when using it. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Dark Void could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Dark Void could be seen as a move used by Boss Darkrai. Note: Status conditions caused by this move apply to each target hit. Since Generation VII (excluding Pokémon Legends: Arceus), Dark Void has the lowest accuracy of all status moves, signature moves, and Dark-type moves. In The Rise of Darkrai, when using Dark Void for the second and third times, Darkrai exclaims the move's name. This does not happen in the original Japanese version. In the Brazilian Portuguese dub, probably due to an oversight, Darkrai says "Dark Void" when using the move for the third time instead of a localized name.

Title: Seed Flare (move)

Seed Flare (Japanese: シードフレア Seed Flare) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Shaymin. Seed Flare inflicts damage and has a 40% chance of lowering the target's Special Defense stat by two stages. Seed Flare inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Special Defense by two stages. In Pokémon GO, Seed Flare is a Charged Attack that was made available on June 4, 2022. In Giratina and the Sky Warrior, Nurse Joy describes Seed Flare as a process in which Shaymin purifies the polluted air it inhales in its body and then expels it in the form of light and water.

Title: Ominous Wind (move)

Ominous Wind (Japanese: あやしいかぜ Ominous Wind) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is TM119 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Ominous Wind inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of raising the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. Ominous Wind's PP has been increased from 5 to 15. It has a 20% chance of raising the user's offensive and defensive stats. Ominous Wind deals damage to all enemies in the same room, and may raise the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense and Travel Speed by one stage. In the Explorers series, the move's secondary effect will activate for each enemy hit; each boost will be applied immediately after it is triggered. Secondary effect: 2 Attack and Defense → 1 Attack and Defense Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of raising the user's Attack, Defense, Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Speed. Prior to Generation VI, this move and Heat Wave had the same in-game animation, the only difference being the color. Ominous Wind is the only Ghost-type Beautiful move.

Title: Shadow Force (move)

Shadow Force (Japanese: シャドーダイブ Shadow Dive) is a Ghost-type move introduced in Generation IV. It is the signature move of Giratina. Shadow Force causes the user to "vanish instantly" on the turn it is selected, rendering it semi-invulnerable, and then reappear the next turn to cause damage. Shadow Force hits the target even if it is protected by a protection move, and removes the effects of protection moves from the target for the remainder of the turn; if it hits an opponent that is protected by protection move that affects its whole side of the field, it removes the protection move from the opponent's entire side of the field (even if the protection move would not affect Shadow Force, such as Wide Guard). Shadow Force cannot remove the effects of protecting moves if it does not affect the target (such as if the target is Normal-type). If the user falls asleep due to Yawn during the semi-invulnerable turn, the move will be cancelled before it hits. In addition, a foe who has just used Lock-On or Mind Reader can still strike through Shadow Force, as well as if the Ability No Guard is possessed by the foe or the user of Shadow Force. Wild Pokémon cannot be caught during the semi-invulnerable stage of Shadow Force. If a Power Herb is held by the user, Shadow Force can be executed in one turn. If the target has used Minimize, Shadow Force now deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If Shadow Force hits a target that is protected by protection move that affects its whole side of the field, it removes the protection move from that entire side of the field (even if the protection move does not affect Shadow Force, such as Wide Guard), regardless of whether the target is an opponent or an ally. If Shadow Force hits a Pokémon protected by a move with a negative effect (such as Spiky Shield), the user will not suffer the negative effect of the protection move. Shadow Force no longer bypasses accuracy checks nor deals double its regular damage if the target has used Minimize. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Shadow Force could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Shadow Force cannot bypass Max Guard nor lift its effects. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Shadow Force is now used in a single turn. It lowers the user's action speed and obscures the user. If used by Origin Forme Giratina, Shadow Force's animation, base power, and accuracy are changed. If the Origin Forme Giratina is Shiny, the game will crash during the move animation. The user gains the Shadow Force status on the first turn. On this turn, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves and projectiles will pass the user as if their tile was empty. On the second turn, the user attacks enemy in the front. The move breaks through the enemy's Protect, Wide Guard, or Quick Guard to damage the enemy. In the Explorers and Adventure Squad series, this move's damage is doubled at the end of damage calculation. Being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Shadow Force cannot be used in a Pokémon Tower in the Adventure Squad series. In co-op battles, the presence will also fade upon its user performing a unity attack. In Pokémon GO, Shadow Force is a Charged Attack that has been available since October 20, 2022. Shadow Force has the highest power of all moves with a semi-invulnerable turn. Shadow Force is the last Generation IV move in index number order. Shadow Force is the only non-Dragon-type signature move of the Pokémon of myth, as well as the only one that is not Special. In his rematch in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, Psychic Corbin uses a Banette that knows Shadow Force, which Banette cannot legally learn. It was likely intended to be Phantom Force, a similar move which Banette can know. During Arceus's boss battle in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, it can use Shadow Force.

Title: Hone Claws (move)

Hone Claws (Japanese: つめとぎ Claw Sharpen) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM01 in Generations V and VI. Hone Claws raises the user's Attack and accuracy by one stage each. Hone Claws can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Baton Pass and Stored Power to give the user an extra three appeal points if they are used in the next turn. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Hone Claws, the user's Attack stat rises by another stage. Hone Claws raises the user's Attack and accuracy by one stage each. Hone Claws, much like all other status moves, can only be used by opposing Pokémon and never by any caught Pokémon. Hone Claws can be seen as a move used by Boss Liepard. Hone Claws is one of Meowscarada's starting moves. It is a Dash move, can be learned at level 1 or 3, has a cooldown of 8 seconds, and is upgraded into Double Team or Trailblaze at level 7. Hone Claws has the user sharpen its claws while moving, increasing the speed and damage of its next three basic attacks Hone Claws is the first Generation V move in index number order.

Title: Wide Guard (move)

Wide Guard (Japanese: ワイドガード Wide Guard) is a non-damaging Rock-type move introduced in Generation V. Wide Guard protects all Pokémon on the user's side of the field for the rest of that turn from moves that can target multiple Pokémon, even those used by an ally that strike all Pokémon on the field (such as Earthquake and Surf). Wide Guard will block these moves even in Single Battles. The protection granted by Wide Guard goes on until the end of the turn even if the user faints during the turn. If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. If a damaging Z-Move that targets multiple Pokémon targets a Pokémon protected by Wide Guard, the Z-Move will bypass Wide Guard but only do 25% of the original damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will remove the effects of Wide Guard. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Wide Guard. Moves that are unaffected by protection are listed here. This move has +3 priority, so it will be executed before most other moves. In Generation V only, the chance that Wide Guard will succeed drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is multiplied by 1/2. Also in Generation V, if a Pokémon uses Feint or Shadow Force to attack its own ally who is protected by Wide Guard, Wide Guard will not be dispelled. In Generations V and VI, Wide Guard could not block status moves that target multiple Pokémon. Due to an oversight, in version 1.0 of Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, Wide Guard reduces the damage of all damaging Z-Moves, rather than just damaging Z-Moves that target multiple Pokémon; this was fixed in version 1.1 of Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. (There are no damaging Z-Moves that target multiple Pokémon in Pokémon Sun and Moon.) If powered up by a Rockium Z into Z-Wide Guard, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. The user gives itself and teammates in the same room the Wide Guard status condition for one turn. This status protects Pokémon from wide-ranging moves. The Pokémon can still take damage from items or explosions. The chance of the move failing rises if the user's most recently used move was Wide Guard or a move that evades enemies' attacks (such as Protect or Endure). Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): ...Nullifies moves that target all allies when hit by such a move while in this defensive posture. In Pokémon UNITE, Wide Guard is Aegislash's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 8 and upgrading Iron Defense into it instead of Iron Head. The user focuses in place for a short time to create a great shield on them. When this shield appears, boost count increases by 1, granting a shield to the user and shoves enemies in front. While this shield is active, enemy player attacks increase boost count by 1 for each different enemy player (capping at 4). When this move ends, shove enemies in front of the user once again and slow them for 2s. At level 13, the move's cooldown is reduced. In the Brazilian Portuguese version of Pokémon UNITE, this move received two different localized names: Vasta Proteção and Defesa Aberta, the latter only being seen after Aegislash reaches level 13 and upgrades the move into Wide Guard+.

Title: Guard Split (move)

Guard Split (Japanese: ガードシェア Guard Share) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. Guard Split averages the user's Defense and Special Defense stats with those of the target Pokémon. Both the user's and the target's stat changes are ignored when calculating the average. Guard Split bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Stats changes, as well as Assault Vest, Eviolite and other Defense/Special Defense increasing effects, all use the Pokémon’s altered stats rather than its original stats in calculation. Once switched out, the Pokémon’s altered stats return to normal. When used on or by a Pokémon with altered stats, Guard Split uses the Pokémon’s altered stats rather than the original to calculate the new average. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Guard Split, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Guard Split will fail if used in a Tera Raid Battle (on Boss and allies alike). Guard Split averages the user's Defense and Special Defense stats with those of the target Pokémon. In Giant Chasm, Gorm told his Cofagrigus to use Guard Split, but the move was executed off-panel.

Title: Power Split (move)

Power Split (Japanese: パワーシェア Power Share) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. Power Split averages the user's Attack and Special Attack stats with those of the target Pokémon. Power Split will ignore both the user and the target's stat changes when calculating the average. Power Split bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Power Split, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Power Split will fail if used in a Tera Raid Battle (on Boss and allies alike). Power Split averages the user's Attack and Special Attack stats with those of the target Pokémon.

Title: Wonder Room (move)

Wonder Room (Japanese: ワンダールーム Wonder Room) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM71 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Wonder Room swaps the Defense and Special Defense of all Pokémon, but stat changes remain on their respective stat. This effect lasts for five turns. Similar to Magic Room and Trick Room, using Wonder Room while it is already in effect will end it immediately. Wonder Room has a priority of -7, so will be used after all moves with a normal priority. Wonder Room now has a priority of 0. Wonder Room can affect which stat is modified by Beast Boost. It also swaps the roles of Sword of Ruin and Beads of Ruin. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Wonder Room, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. The Wonder Room floor status switches Defense and Sp. Def stats of all Pokémon on the floor. The floor status lasts 20 turns. The effect also disappears if Wonder Room is used while the status is already in effect. In Generation V, Wonder Room had the lowest priority of all moves, along with Trick Room and Magic Room.

Title: Psyshock (move)

Psyshock (Japanese: サイコショック Psycho Shock) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM03 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Psyshock inflicts damage. Psyshock uses the target's Defense instead of its Special Defense to calculate damage. Otherwise, it is considered a special move: it uses the user's Special Attack, activates Mirror Coat and Maranga Berry (not Counter or Kee Berry), has its damage reduced by Light Screen (not Reflect), etc. It does not activate Toxic Debris. Psyshock deals damage. The damage is determined by the enemy's Defense stat rather than the Sp. Def stat. In Pokémon UNITE, Psyshock is Espeon's first move and Gardevoir's second move. Espeon can obtain the move by evolving from Eevee at level 4 and upgrading Swift into it instead of Stored Power. The user materializes psychic projectiles and hurls them at a designated location; dealing damage to enemies hit by the projectiles and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. Orbs start in a horizontal line perpendicular to the user's facing. Orbs continue to fly in the direction once past the target location up until the maximum range of the move. Targets hit by all five projectiles are stunned. When one enemy is hit by a projectile, subsequent projectiles deal 70% less damage. At level 10, the projectiles become faster. Gardevoir can obtain the move by evolving into Kirlia at level 5 and upgrading Teleport into it instead of Future Sight. The user channels three attacks at the targeted area, damaging enemies. Psyshock's cooldown is reduced each time it hits an enemy. At level 11, each hit of Psyshock also increases the damage of the next hit. Psyshock is an attack that has appeared as the translated name of ねんりき Nenriki on many English trading cards in the Pokémon Trading Card Game since Generation I (starting with Base Set Abra), long before its actualization as a move in Generation V. Its effect induces paralysis. Since the introduction of Psyshock, ねんりき Nenriki was translated as Psy Bolt, to match ちょうねんりき Chōnenriki being translated as Super Psy Bolt. Out of the three moves that deal physical damage despite being special-based, Psyshock is the only one that is not a signature move. Psyshock has the same description text as Psystrike. In Conquest, this move has the same description as in Generation V of the core series, including the mention of it dealing physical damage. However, the split of physical and special damage does not exist in Conquest - there is only one attack stat and one defense stat, so all damage is in the same, single category.

Title: Venoshock (move)

Venoshock (Japanese: ベノムショック Venom Shock) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM09 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, TM74 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM045 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Venoshock inflicts damage. Its power is doubled to 130 if the target is poisoned. Venoshock can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving an extra three points if any of the moves Poison Gas, Poison Powder, Toxic or Toxic Spikes was used in the prior turn. Venoshock's power is doubled if the target has any status condition. Venoshock deals double damage against poisoned enemies. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Its power is doubled if the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power is doubled when the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. In Teary!! The Voice of the Master, Allister's Gengar was revealed to know Venoshock, but it was never seen using the move. Venoshock has the highest base power of all Poison-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, but only if the target is poisoned.

Title: Autotomize (move)

Autotomize (Japanese: ボディパージ Body Purge) is a non-damaging Steel-type move introduced in Generation V. Autotomize raises the user's Speed stat by two stages and (if the user successfully changes its Speed) decreases its weight by 220 lbs. (100 kg). If the user successfully changes its weight, the message "<Pokémon> became nimble!" is displayed. Autotomize cannot decrease the user's weight below the minimum 0.2 lbs (0.1 kg); if the user's weight would drop below the minimum, it becomes the minimum instead. Weight loss from Autotomize stacks, so using it multiple times will continue to decrease the user's weight accordingly until it reaches the minimum weight. Autotomize's weight reduction cannot be transferred by Baton Pass or removed by Haze. A Pokémon's weight is reset if it changes form (from Generation VI onward), switches out or faints, or the battle ends. Autotomize can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination and using it will cause Baton Pass and Electro Ball to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Steelium Z into Z-Autotomize, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Autotomize raises the user's Travel Speed by two stages. It also gives the user the Autotomize status, which causes the user to become lighter. Moves that are affected by weight (such as Low Kick and Heat Crash) will be affected by this status. Autotomize refers to autotomy, the ability of certain animals to deliberately shed parts of their own body, usually to escape from a predator. It is common amongst reptiles and salamanders, as well as various invertebrates.

Title: Rage Powder (move)

Rage Powder (Japanese: いかりのこな Rage Powder) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation V. Rage Powder has a priority of +3 and makes the user the center of attention, forcing opposing Pokémon to use their moves on the user rather than the intended target (even if it was a friendly target, unless it is a move that cannot target an opponent such as Acupressure or Helping Hand) for the rest of the turn. If a move cannot target the center of attention, it will be used on its intended target. It does not affect allies. If the center of attention faints, switches out, or is taken into the air by Sky Drop, it no longer draws moves. In Triple Battles, Rage Powder will draw the attacks of all opponents in the field, but it can only draw attacks from non-adjacent opponents if they use a long-range move. Rage Powder can draw moves with a charging turn (such as Fly and Solar Beam) if it is used on the turn the move would hit, but it cannot draw Sky Drop. Rage Powder draws Electric- and Water-type moves even if a Pokémon with Lightning Rod or Storm Drain is on the field. If another Pokémon on the same team is already the center of attention, the first user takes priority; if the first user is outside of range or stops being the center of attention, the attack will be drawn to the next center of attention. Rage Powder has no effect on moves which hit multiple Pokémon in a battle. While it can be used in Single Battles, it has no effect. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, Stalwart, Propeller Tail, and Pokémon holding the Safety Goggles are now immune to Rage Powder, such that their attacks are not diverted by it. Snipe Shot ignores Rage Powder and hits the intended target. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Rage Powder, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Rage Powder causes the user the gain the decoy status condition. With this, the user will be preferentially attacked by enemies. Moves that target multiple enemies, such as Ominous Wind (but not moves like Magnitude which target both allies and enemies), will target only the decoy if possible. The decoy is still able to move in any direction, but CPU-controlled decoys move randomly. This status lasts for 6 turns, and will also disappear if a new decoy appears.

Title: Telekinesis (move)

Telekinesis (Japanese: テレキネシス Telekinesis) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM19 in Generation V. Telekinesis raises its target into the air for three turns. This makes all moves used against the target (with the exception of one-hit knockout moves) bypass accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In addition, the target will be immune to Ground-type moves and ungrounded. If a Pokémon under the effect of Telekinesis is affected by Ingrain or holds an Iron Ball, it becomes grounded (i.e. it becomes vulnerable to Ground-type moves, etc.), but the effect to make moves targeting it ignore accuracy checks still applies. If a Pokémon under the effect of Telekinesis is hit by Smack Down or Thousand Arrows, the effect of Telekinesis disappears. If Gravity comes into effect, the effect of Telekinesis disappears from all Pokémon. The move Telekinesis cannot affect a Pokémon under the effect of Ingrain, Smack Down, or Thousand Arrows. While Gravity is in effect, Telekinesis cannot be selected. Mega Gengar, Diglett, Dugtrio, Sandygast, and Palossand cannot be affected by the move Telekinesis, but a Pokémon transformed into one of these Pokémon can be affected. If Mega Gengar is affected by Telekinesis before Mega Evolving or receives the effect via Baton Pass, the effect disappears; the other four will retain the effect if they obtain it via Baton Pass. Telekinesis itself also bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Telekinesis, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Telekinesis inflicts the Telekinesis status condition on the target in front. With this status, the affected Pokémon cannot move and its evasiveness is reduced, however it will not take any damage from Ground-type moves. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Makes the target unable to evade moves. In Pokémon UNITE, Telekinesis is Slowbro's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Slack Off into it instead of Amnesia. The user shoots a beam, causing the first enemy hit to float in the air and restoring some of the user's Oblivious health. The user can reactivate the ability to pull the enemy to them, but otherwise cannot act for the duration. At level 13, the range and speed of the beam are increased.

Title: Magic Room (move)

Magic Room (Japanese: マジックルーム Magic Room) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM72 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Magic Room suppresses the effect of all items held by the Pokémon on the field. This effect lasts for five turns. Using Magic Room while it is already in effect will remove the effects of Magic Room immediately. Items regain their effects as soon as Magic Room ends. Magic Room prohibits the use of items through Natural Gift and Fling; however, it does not suppress the effect of Berries consumed through Pluck or Bug Bite. Magic Room does not affect effects that move items, such as Trick and Pickpocket. If a Pokémon uses Judgment, Techno Blast, or Multi-Attack while Magic Room is in effect, it will be a Normal-type move. Magic Room does not negate item effects that affect prize money, experience, effort values, or friendship, such as those of the Amulet Coin, Lucky Egg, Power Weight, or Soothe Bell. However, it does negate the Speed drop from the Macho Brace and Power items (such as the Power Weight). Magic Room cannot negate form-changing effects of items. If a Pokémon is already locked into a move due to a held Choice item (Choice Scarf, Choice Specs, Choice Band), if the held Choice item is removed while its effect is negated, the Pokémon will be affected by the Choice item lock glitch. Magic Room has a priority of -7 in this generation, so it will be used after all moves with a normal priority. Magic Room does not prevent Pokémon from Mega Evolving with a Mega Stone, undergoing Primal Reversion with a Red Orb or Blue Orb, undergoing Ultra Burst with Ultranecrozium Z, or using a Z-Move with a Z-Crystal. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Magic Room, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Magic Room does not cause Poltergeist or Teatime to fail. The Magic Room floor status prevents the use, eating and throwing of items. The floor status lasts 20 turns. The effect also disappears if Magic Room is used while the status is already in effect. In Generation V, Magic Room had the lowest priority of all moves, along with Trick Room and Wonder Room.

Title: Smack Down (move)

Smack Down (Japanese: うちおとす Knock Down) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM23 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and is TM179 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Smack Down inflicts damage and grounds the target if it was ungrounded. Specifically, if the target is Flying-type, has the Ability Levitate, or is under the effect of Magnet Rise or Telekinesis, Smack Down applies its effect to that Pokémon, causing that target to become grounded (vulnerable to Ground-type moves and affected by terrain and Arena Trap) until that target switches out. Smack Down also removes the effects of Magnet Rise and Telekinesis. The effect of Smack Down is not applied if it hits the target's substitute or if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop, holds an Iron Ball, or is under the effect of Gravity or Ingrain. Magnet Rise fails if used by a Pokémon under the effect of Smack Down; the move Telekinesis cannot affect a Pokémon under the effect of Smack Down. The Air Balloon does not apply if the Pokémon is under the effect of Smack Down. Smack Down can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly, Bounce, and Sky Drop. If it hits a Pokémon that is using Fly or Bounce, it will knock it down, cancelling the move; if it hits a Pokémon using or affected by Sky Drop, it will not be knocked down. A Pokémon under the effect of Smack Down can still use these moves on subsequent turns. Smack Down can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Entrainment, Hold Hands or Play Nice was used in the prior turn. Smack Down inflicts damage. If the enemy is Flying-type, has the Ability Levitate, or is under the effect of Magnet Rise or Telekinesis, it will be grounded, which allows Ground-type moves to hit it. The enemy will also be unable to move in the air (for example, unable to move over water tiles). This move can also hit enemies during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly, Bounce, and Sky Drop. The grounded status condition lasts for 10 turns. In Pokémon GO, Smack Down is a Fast Attack that has been available since June 16, 2018. The English name of this move may be an homage to former professional wrestler and actor Dwayne Johnson, who is associated with the coining of the word smackdown, and shares his ring name, The Rock, with the type of the move.

Title: Storm Throw (move)

Storm Throw (Japanese: やまあらし Mountain Storm) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM137 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Storm Throw inflicts damage and will always result in a critical hit unless the target has Battle Armor, Shell Armor, or is under the effects of Lucky Chant. Storm Throw's power changed from 40 to 60, coinciding with critical hits now dealing 1.5× damage instead of 2× damage. Storm Throw can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Entrainment, Hold Hands, or Play Nice was used in the prior turn. Storm Throw is usable and functions as it did in previous generations. Storm Throw inflicts damage. This move has an increase critical hit ratio. Prior to Generation IX, all Pokémon capable of learning Storm Throw were capable of having the Ability Mold Breaker, which will negate the protection from critical hits normally provided by Battle Armor and Shell Armor. This made Lucky Chant the only guaranteed way to prevent Storm Throw from getting a critical hit.

Title: Flame Burst (move)

Flame Burst (Japanese: はじけるほのお Flame Burst) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. Flame Burst deals damage to the target, then inflicts damage to up to two Pokémon adjacent to that target (including the user if targeting an ally) equal to 1/16 of their respective maximum HP. Except in Battle Royals, the extra damage is dealt to the up to two Pokémon that are both allied with and adjacent to the target; in Battle Royals, the extra damage is dealt to the other two opposing Pokémon. The extra damage is not inflicted if the target was not affected by Flame Burst (such as due to Flame Burst missing, Flash Fire, or being protected). The extra damage is effect damage, so it does not interact with Abilities such as Flash Fire or Color Change on the damaged Pokémon, and is not affected by protection moves and Endure, the Focus Sash or Focus Band, Wonder Guard, Substitute, Destiny Bond, or Telepathy. However, due to being effect damage, it is prevented by Magic Guard. This damage cannot miss. Flame Burst inflicts damage and any enemies adjacent to the target will be dealt 10 HP damage. Flame Burst appears as one of Chandelure's Pokémon moves. Chandelure turns away from the opponent and fires an arcing projectile that proceeds to explode in a giant circle in the air. If charged, the projectile goes further, exploding on contact with the ground instead. In Pokémon UNITE, Flame Burst is Charizard's first move as Charmander. The user attacks with a bursting flame forward, exploding on the first enemy hit, dealing damage and burning enemies in a small radius. The user gains a small movement speed bonus when hitting an enemy. The burn lasts 4s and reduces enemy Attack by 5%. Upon evolving into Charmeleon at level 5, it is replaced by either Flamethrower or Fire Punch. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ In Pokémon Conquest, the AI is remarkably flawed in its usage of Flame Burst, effectively ignoring the difference between the move's main damage and effect damage. Excluding signature moves and Z-Moves, Flame Burst is the only Fire-type move to not be usable in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Sludge Wave (move)

Sludge Wave (Japanese: ヘドロウェーブ Sludge Wave) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation V. It is: TM34 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Sludge Wave inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of poisoning the target. Sludge Wave will hit all Pokémon in Double Battles and all adjacent Pokémon in Triple Battles. Sludge Wave generates its damaging area around the user, similar to Bulldoze and Earthquake. Sludge Wave deals damage and may leave the target poisoned. The chance of applying a status condition with these moves is calculated for each target individually. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target poisoned. The Sludge Wave animation from Generation VII onwards resembles the Surf animation from Generation VI.

Title: Quiver Dance (move)

Quiver Dance (Japanese: ちょうのまい Butterfly Dance) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation V. It can be thought of as a special-oriented counterpart to Victory Dance. Quiver Dance raises the user's Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed stats by one stage each. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Quiver Dance, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Quiver Dance raises the user's Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Travel Speed by one stage each. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder

Title: Heavy Slam (move)

Heavy Slam (Japanese: ヘビーボンバー Heavy Bomber) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TR79 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM121 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Heavy Slam deals damage. Its power depends on the weight of both the user and the target; the lighter the target is in comparison to the user, the greater the power: If the target has used Minimize, Heavy Slam now deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Heavy Slam behaves similarly to Heat Crash, Fly and Bounce, causing the user to leap high up into the air (briefly avoiding moves that pass through their position), before crashing back down on the target. If used against the Hyperrogue Ange Floette flowers, Heavy Slam will always have a base power of 120. Heavy Slam deals damage. Its power depends on the weight of both the user and the target; the lighter the target is in comparison to the user, the greater the power. In Pokémon GO, Heavy Slam is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Heavy Slam is Snorlax's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 5 and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Flail. The user jumps to target location, dealing damage and throwing enemies within the landing radius into the air briefly. At level 11, the move's damage is increased. In A Timeless Encounter!, an Alolan Golem using Heavy Slam is depicted as an image on Professor Kukui's "Book of Pokémon Super Moves". The heaviest Pokémon capable of learning Heavy Slam is a Copperajah with the Heavy Metal Ability, giving it an effective weight of 2866 lbs., followed by Celesteela, which weighs 2204.4 lbs.. With a weight of 2.2 lbs., Flapple is the lightest Pokémon that can have this move.

Title: Synchronoise (move)

Synchronoise (Japanese: シンクロノイズ Synchro Noise) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. Synchronoise damages all adjacent Pokémon that share at least one type with the user. If the user has multiple types, any Pokémon that has any of those types will be damaged. Synchronoise's power changed from 70 to 120, and its PP changed from 15 to 10. Synchronoise can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Reflect Type was used in the prior turn. Synchronoise will never be effective if the user has no types (i.e. if a pure Fire type uses Burn Up), even if an adjacent Pokémon also has no types. Synchronoise deals damage to nearby enemies that share at least one type with the user. Synchronoise is a Charged Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since August 3, 2019. The English name of this move is a combination of the English words synchronize and noise, of which the Japanese and Korean names are transliterations. The German, Italian, Brazilian Portuguese, and Spanish names translate it instead. Due to the nature of this move and the Dark type's immunity to Psychic-type moves, pure Dark-type Pokémon (of which only Umbreon can naturally know the move) cannot use this move successfully under normal circumstances. Despite having "noise" in its name, Synchronoise is not a sound-based move.

Title: Electro Ball (move)

Electro Ball (Japanese: エレキボール Elecball) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TR80 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM072 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Electro Ball inflicts more damage the faster the user is compared to the target. The Speed values used take all modifiers into account (including stat stages, paralysis, held items such as the Iron Ball, and Abilities such as Slush Rush). Electro Ball has no effect on Pokémon with Bulletproof. Electro Ball can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if a certain move (Agility, Autotomize, Calm Mind, Charge, Rock Polish, or Shell Smash) was used in the prior turn. Electro Ball inflicts damage depending on the user and target's Speed stats; if the user's Speed is higher, the move deals 50% more damage. In Gates to Infinity, as the Speed stat does not exist, Travel Speed is used instead. Despite the move's description, the effect does not gain in intensity. In Pokémon UNITE, Electro Ball is Pikachu's first move obtained at level 4 by upgrading Thunder Shock into it instead of Thunder. The user hurls an electric orb at the targeted enemy, damaging and slowing down all enemies in a small radius around the target upon impact by paralyzing them. The move deals bonus damage based on the enemy's missing HP. At level 11, its damage is increased. In To Catch a Pokémon Smuggler!, Officer Jenny mentioned that her Manectric knew Electro Ball, but it was never seen using the move. Electro Ball can have the highest base power of any Electric-type move (150), excluding Z-Moves.

Title: Soak (move)

This article is about the move Soak. For the Field Move in Pokémon Ranger games, see Soak (Field Move). Soak (Japanese: みずびたし Flood) is a non-damaging Water-type move introduced in Generation V. Soak changes the target's type to pure Water-type. The effect lasts as long as the target remains in battle; however, changing form or transforming overrides the effect. Soak succeeds even if the target is already a pure Water-type Pokémon. Soak fails if used on a substitute or a Pokémon with Multitype. If used on a pure Water-type Pokémon, Soak's animation will still play, but the game will now state that the move has failed. Soak fails if used on a Pokémon with RKS System. Soak can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Rain Dance was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Waterium Z into Z-Soak, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. If used on Mimikyu that has its Disguise up, it loses its Water typing if the disguise is broken. Soak changes the target's type to pure Water-type. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Soak could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Soak could be seen as a move used by Boss Pyukumuku. Although the move itself hasn't been used in the animated series, getting wet has been shown to neutralize the Ground type's immunity to Electric in a couple of occasions, first with Brock's Onix in Showdown in Pewter City and later with Pryce's Piloswine in Nice Pryce, Baby! and Hapu's Mudsdale in A Grand Debut!. In the last instance, getting wet was directly mentioned to mimic Soak's effect. All Pokémon capable of knowing Soak are either a Water-type or in one of the Water Egg Groups.

Title: Flame Charge (move)

Flame Charge (Japanese: ニトロチャージ Nitro Charge) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. TM43 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Flame Charge inflicts damage and raises the user's Speed by one stage. Flame Charge inflicts damage and may increase the user's Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Raises the user's Speed. In Pokémon UNITE, Flame Charge is Talonflame's first move and Cinderace's second move. Talonflame can obtain it by evolving into Fletchinder at level 5 and replacing Peck with it instead of Aerial Ace. The user dashes forward, damaging enemies in its path. The user gains a speed boost after the dash. At level 11, for a short time after this move hits, the user's abilities and basic attacks partially ignore the enemies Defense for the next 3s (capped at 0) and enemies hit are slowed by 30% for 5s. Cinderace can obtain it by reaching level 8 and replacing Low Sweep with it instead of Feint. The user charges forward, damaging all enemies hit. At level 13, the next boosted attack after this move ends also slows enemies hit for a short time. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder In The Party Crasher and Guzma the Destroyer, Gladion's Type: Null was mentioned to know Flame Charge, but the move was used off-panel.

Title: Coil (move)

Coil redirects here. For the Pokémon named Coil in Japanese, see Magnemite (Pokémon). Coil (Japanese: とぐろをまく Coil Up) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation V. Coil raises the user's Attack, Defense, and accuracy stats by one stage each. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Coil, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Coil raises the user's Attack, Defense, and accuracy. This move, along with Hone Claws and Acupressure, are the only moves that raise the accuracy stat. Fitting for its name, most Pokémon that can learn this move have a serpentine body.

Title: Low Sweep (move)

If you were looking for the move that is known as Low Kick in English, see Low Kick. Low Sweep (Japanese: ローキック Low Kick) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. TM47 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM27 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Low Sweep inflicts damage and lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage. Low Sweep deals damage and reduces the enemy's Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. In Pokémon UNITE, Low Sweep is Cinderace's second move. The user makes a swift low sweep in the designated direction, damaging any enemy it hits. After reaching level 8, this move is replaced by either Flame Charge or Feint. Low Sweep appears to be inspired by various martial arts (such as Muay Thai or the MMA umbrella) that feature kicks to the opponent's legs in an effort to reduce the target's balance and mobility. The reduction of the target's speed upon a successful hit is a clear reference to the real-life aftermath of such kicks, where participants in a fight are often seen visibly hobbled while walking. In contrast, Low Kick's Japanese name (けたぐり Ketaguri, meaning "pulling inside ankle sweep") refers to a sumo technique that brings down the target, which is explicitly meant to bring a target down to the ground (which brings you victory in a sumo match if successful), hence Low Kick's mechanic of dealing damage according to a target's weight.

Title: Acid Spray (move)

Acid Spray (Japanese: アシッドボム Acid Bomb) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM013 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM112 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Acid Spray inflicts damage and lowers the target's Special Defense by two stages. It has no effect on Pokémon with the Bulletproof ability. Acid Spray deals damage and reduces the target's Sp. Defense by two stages. In Pokémon GO, Acid Spray is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 19, 2019.

Title: Foul Play (move)

Foul Play (Japanese: イカサマ Foul Play) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation V. TM21 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Foul Play inflicts damage. It uses the target's Attack stat to calculate damage instead of the user's. The target's Attack stat stage-modifiers are applied (rather than the user's), but otherwise the user's Attack modifiers are used (including held item, Ability, and burn). For example, the user's Huge Power or held Choice Band will increase the stat used in calculation, whereas the target's will not. Foul Play deals damage based on the enemy's Attack stat instead of the user's. In Pokémon GO, Foul Play is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Foul Play is Umbreon's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Umbreon at level 4 and upgrading Swift into it instead of Mean Look. The user charges, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon it hits and decreasing their movement speed. If the charge hits an opposing Pokémon, this move can be used again. If this move is used again, the user deals damage to opposing Pokémon it hits, decreasing their movement speed, and shoving them. The second stage of this move deals increased damage based on the Attack of the opposing Pokémon hit in the first stage. The higher their Attack, the higher the damage. At level 10, the user's next basic attack after using this move becomes a boosted attack. While Foul Play is not usable in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, it is mentioned during Side Mission 175: "Romance avec Purrloin" as "the move that Purrloin surprisingly can't learn on its own".

Title: Simple Beam (move)

Simple Beam (Japanese: シンプルビーム Simple Beam) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. Simple Beam changes the target's Ability to Simple. If a Pokémon affected by Simple Beam is switched out, it regains its original Ability. Simple Beam fails if the target's Ability is Simple, Truant, Multitype, Zen Mode (Generation VII onward), Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Power Construct, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, or As One. With Simple as its Ability, if the Pokémon's stat stages would be increased or decreased, the amount they would change by is doubled. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Simple Beam, the user's Special Attack stat rises one stage.

Title: Entrainment (move)

Entrainment (Japanese: なかまづくり Befriend) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. Entrainment changes the target's Ability to match the user's. If a Pokémon affected by Entrainment is switched out, it regains its original Ability. If both Pokémon have the same Ability, Entrainment will fail. Entrainment fails if the target's Ability is Truant, Multitype, Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Power Construct, Ice Face, Gulp Missile, As One, Zero to Hero, Commander, Orichalcum Pulse, or Hadron Engine. Entrainment fails if the user's Ability is Trace, Forecast, Flower Gift, Zen Mode, Illusion, Imposter, Power of Alchemy, Receiver, Disguise, Power Construct, Ice Face, Hunger Switch, Gulp Missile, Neutralizing Gas, As One, Zero to Hero, or Commander. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Entrainment, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Entrainment can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Circle Throw, Seismic Toss, Sky Drop, Smack Down, Storm Throw, and Vital Throw) to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. Entrainment fails if used on Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon. Entrainment changes the Ability of the target to the same as the user's. It fails if the target has the Ability Wonder Guard or Stance Change.

Title: After You (move)

After You (Japanese: おさきにどうぞ After You) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. The target will move next on the current turn, ignoring priority. After You bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It fails if the target has already moved on the same turn. After You ignores the effects of Quash. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-After You, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. After You fails if the order remains the same after using After You. After You no longer fails if the turn order remains the same after using After You. After You has the same effect as Baton Pass. The user switches positions with a teammate, and the switched ally receives a random stat boost. In Gates to Infinity, the user will switch places with the teammate in front, or a random teammate on the floor when used by an enemy. In Super Mystery Dungeon, the user switches with a teammate anywhere on the floor who is ordered first on the team list (or second on the list if the user is listed first).

Title: Round (move)

Round (Japanese: りんしょう Round) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM48 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, and TM76 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Round inflicts damage. If another Pokémon uses Round before the user this turn, the user will use Round directly after it (regardless of Speed); all but the first Round within a turn will double in power to 120. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Round can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Round damages an enemy in front. If a teammate in the same room used Round in the same turn, the power of the move is increased for the turn by 50%. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, Round causes its own Round status condition on the user which lasts for one turn. The name of this move refers to vocal rounds, a type of canon in which two voices sing harmoniously.

Title: Echoed Voice (move)

Echoed Voice (Japanese: エコーボイス Echo Voice) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM49 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Its base power increases by 40 each consecutive turn it is used, up to a maximum of 200. After reaching its maximum, using it consecutively simply maintains the increased power. However, the power will not increase during a round and will only increase once per round (regardless of how many Pokémon used it). Even if the move misses or fails to inflict damage (e.g. due to being protected against), the base power will still increase as long as the move is executed. The move does not have to be used by the same Pokémon every turn for the power to increase. In Tera Raid Battles, the power does not increase and is always 40. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Echoed Voice can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Echoed Voice damages all enemies adjacent to the user. Its power is increased by 50% if used by a teammate on the same floor during the same turn. In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon, its power is also increased if it was the last move used by the user on the same floor. Echoed Voice can reach the highest base power of all sound-based moves and the highest base power of all moves with no negative effects on the user, excluding Z-Moves. If used a sufficient amount of turns, its base power will reach 200. This can further be increased by Punk Rock, where it will reach a base power of 260.

Title: Chip Away (move)

Chip Away (Japanese: なしくずし Little by Little) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. Chip Away inflicts damage, ignoring any changes to the target's Defense and evasion stat stages - positive and negative. It does not ignore changes to stats that do not use stat stages, such as Reflect, Abilities such as Sand Veil, or items such as Eviolite. It also does not ignore changes to the user's Attack or accuracy. Chip Away inflicts damage, ignoring any changes to the target's Defense and evasion stat stages (both positive and negative).

Title: Clear Smog (move)

Clear Smog (Japanese: クリアスモッグ Clear Smog) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation V. Clear Smog inflicts damage and resets all stat levels of the target to 0; unlike Haze, this move only hits one target, rather than affecting every Pokémon on the field. This effect does not work if the target is unaffected by the attack because of type immunity, protection, or is behind a substitute. However, it does work against the boss of a Max Raid Battle even if it has a shield up. Clear Smog bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Holding a Covert Cloak does not prevent a target from having its stat changes eliminated. Clear Smog inflicts damage and resets the enemy's stat changes (both positive and negative changes).

Title: Stored Power (move)

Stored Power (Japanese: アシストパワー Assist Power) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TR82 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM041 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Stored Power deals damage. It normally has a base power of 20, but gains 20 power for every increased stat stage the user has. Stats decreased below normal do not affect this move's base power. Its maximum possible base power is 860. This occurs when all seven of the user's stats (Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed, evasion, and accuracy) have been raised the maximum six stages. Stored Power can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if a certain move (Amnesia, Calm Mind, Cotton Guard, Hone Claws, or Nasty Plot) was used in the prior turn. Stored Power inflicts damage. The move's power increases for every increased stat stage the user has. Description prior to version 2.20.0: The more the user's stats are raised, the greater the power of this move. The user's stat increases are used up by this move, not lowered. Thus, the removal of the user's stat increases cannot be prevented by skills such as Dauntless. This move has a power multiplier that starts at ×1; and for each increase in the user's stat rank (including critical-hit rate), this multiplier increases by one. This multiplier reaches its maximum of ×12 if the user has stats raised by eleven or more ranks in total. In Pokémon UNITE, Stored Power is Espeon's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Eevee at level 4 and upgrading Swift into it instead of Psyshock. The user unleashes blasts of psychic power at random enemies in the area of effect; dealing damage to them and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. The user stores one blast of psychic power every 3s, or after the user hits an enemy with a boosted basic attack. Up to 5 blasts of psychic power can be stored at once. After this move is used, the user's movement speed is increased for 1s. Targets hit by a psychic power blast will take 70% less damage from subsequent hits. At level 10, the move deals additional damage to targets below half their HP. In Giant Chasm, Gorm told his Sigilyph to use Stored Power, but the move was executed off-panel. With all available positive stat changes, Stored Power has the highest base power out of all special moves.

Title: Quick Guard (move)

Quick Guard (Japanese: ファストガード Fast Guard) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. Quick Guard protects all Pokémon on the user's side of the field from moves that have increased priority during that turn, such as Quick Attack or Aqua Jet. If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. Moves that break protection will remove the effects of Quick Guard; Feint, despite being a priority move, will do full damage and remove the protection. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Quick Guard. Status moves that are unaffected by protection are listed here. This primarily applies if they are given priority by an Ability like Prankster. This move has +3 priority, so it will be executed before most other moves. The following effects only apply to this generation. The chance that Quick Guard will succeed drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is multiplied by 1/2. Quick Guard does not block moves that have been given an increased priority through Prankster that would not usually have one. If a Pokémon uses Feint or Shadow Force to attack its own ally who is protected by Quick Guard, Quick Guard will not be dispelled. If powered up by a Fightinium Z into Z-Quick Guard, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. The user gives itself and teammates in the same room the Quick Guard status condition for one turn. This status protects Pokémon from moves that are used from more than one space away. The Pokémon can still take damage from items or explosions. The chance of the move failing rises if the user's most recently used move was Quick Guard or a move that evades enemies' attacks (such as Detect or Endure). In Evolution Exchange Excitement!, Bianca's Escavalier was revealed to know Quick Guard. However, it has never been shown using the move.

Title: Ally Switch (move)

Ally Switch (Japanese: サイドチェンジ Side Change) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM51 in Generation V and TR83 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Ally Switch causes the user to switch places with the ally opposite to itself, and is an increased-priority move. It will fail if the user is in the middle of the field in a Triple Battle, if the user has no ally opposite it, or if used in a Single Battle, Multi Battle, Rotation Battle, or Horde Encounter. If a Pokémon targeted an ally with a move, but as a result of Ally Switch the Pokémon is now targeting itself when it would execute the move, the move will fail (even if the move is Acupressure). Snipe Shot and the Abilities Stalwart and Propeller Tail ignore Ally Switch and hit the intended target. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Ally Switch, the user's Speed stat rises by two stages. Using Ally Switch consecutively now decreases the chance of success for each consecutive use. Ally Switch has the same effect as Baton Pass. The user switches positions with a teammate, and the switched ally receives a random stat boost. The user will switch with a teammate anywhere on the floor who is ordered first on the team list (or second on the list if the user is listed first). All Pokémon that can learn Ally Switch through TM in Generation V that have genders can learn it through breeding in Generations VI and VII. In X and Y, Tyrogue is programmed to learn Ally Switch as an Egg Move, but there are no legitimate ways to pass the move, as it is male-only and none of its Evolutions can learn Ally Switch by other means. Despite this, Tyrogue and its Evolutions are unable to learn Ally Switch through Move Tutor in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon or TR in Sword and Shield.

Title: Scald (move)

Scald (Japanese: ねっとう Boiling Water) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation V. TM55 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM29 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. TM49 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Scald inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Upon execution, Scald will thaw the user if frozen (even if the move fails to hit the target). Scald deals damage and may leave the enemy with a burn. Upon execution, Scald will thaw the user if frozen. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Removes the frozen condition. Has a moderate chance of leaving the target burned. In Pokémon UNITE, Scald is Slowbro's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Slowpoke at level 4 and upgrading Water Gun into it instead of Surf. The user fires a stream of boiling water, damaging enemies hit; creating a cloud of steam at the location of the first enemy hit, which slows and applies burn to all enemies inside. At level 11, the size of the steam cloud increases. Prior to the release of Pokémon X and Y, a banner at the Summer 2013 World Hobby Fair showed Lapras using Scald, but Lapras ultimately cannot learn Scald in the final release of the games.

Title: Shell Smash (move)

Shell Smash (Japanese: からをやぶる Shell Break) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. Shell Smash decreases the user's Defense and Special Defense stat by one stage, but increases the user's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed by two stages each. Shell Smash is a part of Contest Spectacular combination and using it will cause Baton Pass and Electro Ball to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Shell Smash, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Shell Smash lowers the user's Defense and Sp. Def by one stage, but raises its Attack, Sp. Atk, and Travel Speed by two stages each. In Pokémon UNITE, Shell Smash is Crustle's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Dwebble at level 4 and upgrading Rock Slide into it instead of Rock Tomb. The user smashes his shell, setting his Defense and Sp. Defense to 0, gaining a boost to his Attack and Sp. Attack equal to 40% of the Defense and Sp. Defense lost, respectively. Defense and Sp. Defense not from base stats, i.e. from items and buffs (including the user's passive) are exempt. The user also gains a significant speed boost. At level 11, the boost is equal to 50% of the Defense and Sp. Defense. Shell Smash causes the greatest overall base stat changes of any move from no stat changes at all, with 8. However, Belly Drum can surpass a +8 stat change if the user already has at least a -3 change in Attack, capping at a +12 change if executed from -6 Attack. Huntail can use this move, even though it no longer has a visible shell after evolving from Clamperl.

Title: Heal Pulse (move)

Heal Pulse (Japanese: いやしのはどう Healing Pulse) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. Heal Pulse restores up to 50% (75% if the user has Mega Launcher) of the target's maximum HP. Heal Pulse bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It can hit non-adjacent targets in Triple Battles. If either the user or target is affected by Heal Block, this move cannot be used. In this case, if there are no other usable moves (due to Disable, Choice Band, lack of PP, etc.), the user will use Struggle. It will fail if the target's HP stat is already full or if it is behind a substitute. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Heal Pulse, all of the user's lowered stats are reset, and the target can be healed regardless of whether the user or target is affected by Heal Block. In Gates to Infinity, Heal Pulse restores the target's HP by 25% of their max HP. This is increased to 40% in Super Mystery Dungeon. When boosted by the Ability Mega Launcher, it will heal 48% of the target's max HP. In Pokémon UNITE, Heal Pulse is Blissey's first move as Chansey. The user continually restores HP as well as the HP of a designated ally for a short time. After evolving at level 4, it is replaced by either Soft-Boiled or Safeguard. Heal Pulse is the only status aura and pulse move.

Title: Hex (move)

Hex (Japanese: たたりめ Evil Eye) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM77 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM029 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Hex's base power is 50 and will double to 100 when the target is affected by a non-volatile status condition. Hex's base power was increased to 65 and will double to 130. Hex can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving the user extra three appeal points if a status-inducing status move (except Psycho Shift and Rest) or a certain damaging move (Force Palm, Inferno, Nuzzle or Zap Cannon) was used in the prior turn. Hex deals damage, inflicting 50% extra damage when used on a target afflicted with a bad status condition. Hex appears as one of Chandelure's Pokémon moves. Chandelure grabs from a distance and barrages the opponent, reducing their recoverable HP. If used while the opponent's stats are lowered, the attack's damage increases. In Pokémon GO, Hex is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Its power is doubled if the target is affected by a status condition. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power is doubled when the target is affected by a status condition. In Pokémon UNITE, Hex is Gengar's second move. It is obtained by evolving into Haunter at level 5 and upgrading Lick into it instead of Dream Eater. The user vanishes and teleports to a designated location, damaging enemies in a radius where the user appears. If this hits an enemy afflicted with a status condition, its damage is increased and its cooldown is reduced. At level 11, its damage is increased. Hex is the only Ghost-type move introduced in Generation V. Hex is the only move that has a 3 letter English name and cannot be used outside of battle.

Title: Sky Drop (move)

Sky Drop (Japanese: フリーフォール Free Fall) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM58 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. On the turn it is selected, Sky Drop brings the target to the air. While in the air, the target cannot act. While in the air, both the user and the target avoid any move targeted at them (except Gust, Thunder, Twister, Sky Uppercut, Hurricane, or Smack Down). The next turn, the target is thrown down and receives damage. Sky Drop does no damage to Flying-type Pokémon, but it will still pick them up (making them unable to move) on its first turn. Sky Drop can target non-adjacent Pokémon in Triple Battles. Sky Drop can target allies, but will fail when attempting to perform the move on them. The Ability No Guard or a previously used Lock-On or Mind Reader can still allow moves to hit Pokémon that are in the air. Sky Drop will fail if the target is behind a substitute, or if used on a target that is already semi-invulnerable due to moves such as Fly, Bounce, or another Sky Drop. Sky Drop cannot be used while Gravity is in effect. If Gravity is used during the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop, the move will be cancelled. In Generation V only, due to a glitch, if Gravity is used while two Pokémon are in the semi-invulnerable state of Sky Drop, Gravity will bring the user of Sky Drop down, but the target of Sky Drop will be stuck unable to move in the semi-invulnerable state, until the effect of Gravity ends, the user of Sky Drop switches out or is knocked out, or the Pokémon affected by Sky Drop is knocked out. This can only occur in Double and Triple Battles. If a Pokémon locked into a consecutively executed move is brought up with Sky Drop, the Pokémon will discontinue using the move when freed; if the move confuses the user due to fatigue upon completion, that will occur now. Protect and Detect can guard against the initial use of the move, but the affected Pokémon cannot use any moves (including Protect) while in the air. Sky Drop is unaffected by the Power Herb, and will not consume it. Sky Drop is not redirected by the effects of Follow Me or Rage Powder. If a Pokémon that is the center of attention (due to Follow Me or Rage Powder) is taken into the air by Sky Drop, it will no longer draw moves. In a Rotation Battle, if the target Pokémon is rotated out on the second turn of Sky Drop, the Pokémon will be dropped into their new rotated position and take no damage, while the rotated in Pokémon still gets to attack. Targets weighing 440.9 lbs. (200 kg) or more cannot be lifted by Sky Drop, causing the move to fail. Once the target has been lifted, its weight can no longer affect the success of that usage of Sky Drop—even if a lifted target becomes heavier than the threshold, it will not cause Sky Drop to fail. If Gravity is used during the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop, the move will be cancelled and both Pokémon will be brought down. Both the user and the target can now be hit by Thousand Arrows during the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop. While a Pokémon currently being lifted by Sky Drop can freely select any of its moves at the start of the turn, it does not have the option to Mega Evolve or Ultra Burst even if it otherwise would be able to. The Abilities Wimp Out and Emergency Exit will not trigger if the Pokémon is brought below half HP during the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop. Sky Drop can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if any of the moves Entrainment, Hold Hands or Play Nice was used in the prior turn. In Black, White, Black 2, and White 2, a glitch in Double and Triple Battles can cause a Pokémon to become stuck in the semi-invulnerable state when Sky Drop is used. The glitch is activated when Gravity is used while two Pokémon are in the semi-invulnerable state after the use of Sky Drop. Gravity will bring the user of Sky Drop down while the target will be stuck in the semi-invulnerable state, unable to move until it is knocked out or hit with one of the moves listed above. Because of the glitch, Sky Drop was banned in Generation V Wi-Fi Random Matches starting November 10, 2010 and all subsequent official tournaments. In Pokémon Sun and Moon, a glitch can cause a Pokémon to become stuck in an "undead" invulnerable state when Sky Drop is used. The glitch is activated when Sky Drop is used on a Pokémon using Spiky Shield. Spiky Shield will damage the Pokémon using Sky Drop, but the game does not recognize the move. This makes the attacking Pokémon reach 0 HP and completely skip its turn and all moves used against this glitched Pokémon fail. Sky Drop targets the enemy in front and brings the user and the enemy to the air (giving the user the Sky Drop status and suspending the enemy). While the user is in the air, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves (except by moves such as Gust, Thunder, Twister and Sky Uppercut). Projectiles will also pass the user as if their tile was empty. The next turn, the enemy is thrown down and receives damage. Due to it being a two-turn move, this move cannot be linked. Sky Drop has the lowest power of all moves with a charging turn. Sky Drop is the only move in Generation VI which causes an opponent's Pokémon to become fully immobile while in use. Sky Drop is one of the two moves with a charging turn that cannot be used in Generation VIII, the other being Razor Wind. Sky Drop is the only move to be banned in an in-game tournament or Battle facility, being banned in the Pokémon World Tournament.

Title: Shift Gear (move)

Shift Gear (Japanese: ギアチェンジ Gear Change) is a non-damaging Steel-type move introduced in Generation V. Prior to Generation VII, it was one of the signature moves of Klink's evolutionary line. Shift Gear increases the user's Speed by two stages and the user's Attack by one stage. Shift Gear can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Gear Grind to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Steelium Z into Z-Shift Gear, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Shift Gear raises the user's Attack by one stage and Travel Speed by two stages. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Shift Gear could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Shift Gear could be seen as a move used by Boss Klinklang. Despite being described as a move where "the user rotates its gears", Amped Form Toxtricity and Cyclizar can learn this move naturally despite having no visible gears on their bodies.

Title: Circle Throw (move)

Circle Throw (Japanese: ともえなげ Overhead Throw) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM129 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Circle Throw inflicts damage and has decreased priority. In a Trainer battle, it will switch out the target to the next Pokémon in line that has not fainted (if there is one). In a wild Pokémon battle with a single wild Pokémon, this move will cause the battle to end if the user's level is equal or greater than the target's; however, if there are multiple wild Pokémon in the battle, it works the same as in a Trainer battle. If using this move causes the user to faint (such as if the target is holding a Rocky Helmet or has the Ability Rough Skin or Iron Barbs), the target will not be forced to switch. Circle Throw will fail to end wild Pokémon battles or switch out the opposing Trainer's Pokémon if the target has the Ability Suction Cups, is under the effects of Ingrain, or has Substitute set up. Circle Throw can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if a certain move (Entrainment, Hold Hands, Play Nice, Spikes, Stealth Rock, or Toxic Spikes) was used in the prior turn. When used on a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon, Circle Throw will deal damage but not force the target to switch out. Circle Throw deals damage and blows the enemy away by ten tiles. If the target collides with a wall or another Pokémon, the target (and the other Pokémon) will take 5 HP damage. If the move is activated twice in one turn, Circle Throw will hit the enemy twice and blow them away up to 20 tiles. In the animated series, Circle Throw is depicted as a jujutsu/judo technique called "Tomoe nage", in which the attacker grabs the opponent high and falls back, using the combined forces of their legs and inertia to throw the opponent over their head. This move has also similarities with a wrestling maneuver called "the monkey flip".

Title: Incinerate (move)

Incinerate (Japanese: やきつくす Complete Burn) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM59 in Generations V and VI. Incinerate inflicts damage to all adjacent opponents. It destroys any Berries held by the hit Pokémon. The Occa Berry will activate before being burned up. Berries that would activate in response to Incinerate, such as the Oran Berry or Rowap Berry, are destroyed before they have a chance to be consumed. Incinerate cannot destroy items held by a Pokémon with Sticky Hold. Symbiosis will not activate when an item is destroyed by Incinerate. Items destroyed by Incinerate cannot be recovered by Recycle, Pickup, or Harvest. When used in a Max Raid Battle, Incinerate fails completely, without even dealing damage. Incinerate deals damage and burns an enemy's carried food item. If Incinerate is used against the user or teammate, a random food item inside the bag will be burned away. In Pokémon GO, Incinerate is a Fast Attack made available on November 9, 2020. Incinerate is the only special move that always fails in Max Raid Battles.

Title: Quash (move)

Quash (Japanese: さきおくり Postpone) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM60 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. The target of Quash will act last in that turn, ignoring priority, provided it has not yet acted. The effect of Quash is ignored by After You. If multiple Pokémon are affected by Quash, they move in the order they were affected by Quash. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Quash, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. If multiple Pokémon are affected by Quash, they now move fastest to slowest. Due to a glitch, in a Double Battle where the player who didn't initiate the challenge is down to their final Pokémon, that Pokémon's Quash originally failed when used against the opponent on their right, regardless of what move that Pokémon selected for the turn. With the release of the version 1.1 update to Sword and Shield, this glitch was fixed and Quash can now correctly hit Pokémon in that position. Unlike the core series games, Quash causes the target to flinch. It is the only non-damaging move to do this. Although Quash was introduced in Generation V, no Pokémon introduced in that generation can learn it. Many Pokémon that learn this move share a royal theme, these Pokémon are: Nidoqueen, Nidoking, Alolan Meowth, Alolan Persian, Kingler, Slowking, Kingdra, Slaking, Empoleon, Vespiquen, and Palossand.

Title: Acrobatics (move)

This article is about the move introduced in Generation V. For the Ability whose Japanese name translates as "Acrobatics", see Unburden (Ability). Acrobatics (Japanese: アクロバット Acrobat) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation V. TM62 from Generations V through Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Acrobatics deals damage and its power is doubled to 110 if the user has no held item. Acrobatics can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If the user is holding a Flying Gem, the item is consumed before this move checks whether the Pokémon has an item or not; therefore, the power is still doubled. Acrobatics deals damage. Its damage is increased by 50% / 100% if the user is not holding an item. In Pokémon GO, Acrobatics is a Charged Attack that was made available on February 12, 2022. When the player does not have any Ⓟ, the attack does more damage. In Pokémon UNITE, Acrobatics is Talonflame's second starting move. The user flies toward a targeted area, attacking all Pokémon in the area up to three times. The user can choose a direction to dash after the move ends. After evolving from Fletchinder at level 7, the move is replaced by either Fly or Brave Bird.

Title: Reflect Type (move)

Reflect Type (Japanese: ミラータイプ Mirror Type) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. Reflect Type changes the user's type to match the type or types of the target. If the target has had a type added by Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat, Reflect Type will also copy the added Grass or Ghost type respectively. Reflect Type successfully copies the target's type even if it is disguised by Illusion. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Reflect Type will fail if the target has no type (e.g. it was a pure Fire-type Pokémon that has lost its Fire type due to Burn Up) or the user is Terastallized; if such a target has additionally been affected by Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat, however, Reflect Type will cause the user to become a Normal type with an added Grass or Ghost type respectively. If the target is Terastallized, the user's type changes to the target's Tera Type. If the target Terastallized into the Stellar type, it will become its original type. Reflect Type can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Synchronoise to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Reflect Type, the user's Special Attack stat is raised by one stage. Reflect Type makes the user's type the same as the target Pokémon in front. Reflect Type's effect is that of Conversion in Generation I. From Generation II onward, however, Conversion has instead changed the user's type to that of one of its moves (aside from Curse, when the move was ???-type).

Title: Retaliate (move)

Retaliate (Japanese: かたきうち Blood Revenge) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM67 in Generations V and VI, and TM79 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Retaliate inflicts damage. Its base power doubles from 70 to 140 if a Pokémon from the user's party has fainted in the previous turn. Retaliate inflicts damage. The Pokémon's Attack will sharply go up when a teammate faints for Pokémon who know this move. The Japanese name of this move, かたきうち (Katakiuchi), refers to a practice common of samurai families during the Edo period, where a samurai was allowed by law to avenge the murder of a direct family member (such as a parent or older sibling), as a form of justice. This may explain its move animation from Generation VI onward. This move was possibly intended to be a Dark-type move. A remnant of this is present in the Japanese versions of Black and White, with TM67 being erroneously shown as a Dark-type TM.

Title: Final Gambit (move)

Final Gambit (Japanese: いのちがけ Life Risk) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. Final Gambit causes the user to faint, and the target receives damage equal to the user's remaining HP before using Final Gambit. If Final Gambit doesn't hit the opponent due to missing, type immunity, or protection, then Final Gambit will fail, and the user will not faint. The move's side effect is not considered as inflicting damage to the user, and so if the user is holding a Focus Band, Focus Sash, or has Sturdy, they will not activate and the user will still faint. However, the move inflicts damage to the target, and so the target's Focus Band, Focus Sash, Sturdy, and/or Endure can still trigger if applicable, so that the target will be left with 1 HP. If Final Gambit causes the target to faint, the user will faint before the target. If used in a Max or Tera Raid Battle, Final Gambit fails, and the user does not faint. Final Gambit lowers the user's HP to 1 and deals damage to the enemy equal to the amount of HP deducted from the user.

Title: Bestow (move)

Bestow (Japanese: ギフトパス Gift Pass) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. The user transfers its held item to the target. It fails if the user has no held item, the target already has a held item, or the target is behind a substitute. Bestow bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It is blocked by Protect and Detect. Items given away in Trainer battles return to the original Pokémon after the battle, but transfers are not reversed after a wild battle. Bestow will fail if the user holds Mail. It also fails if the user or the target is Giratina when the user holds a Griseous Orb, Arceus when the user holds a Plate, or if the user or the target is Genesect when the user holds a Drive. Bestow will hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Bestow will fail if the user holds a Z-Crystal. It also fails if the user holds a Mega Stone or a colored orb that could allow either Pokémon to undergo Mega Evolution or Primal Reversion, or if the user or the target is Silvally and the user holds a memory. Bestow can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if a certain move (Celebrate, Covet, Happy Hour or Wish) was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Bestow, the user's Speed stat is raised by two stages, then the move itself will fail after obtaining the Z-Power since it won't be possible to transfer its own Z-Crystal. Bestow transfers the user's held item to the Pokémon in front. If the target is already holding an item, the move will fail.

Title: Inferno (move)

Inferno (Japanese: れんごく Purgatory) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. Inferno deals damage and will always burn the target if it hits. Inferno can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Hex to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Inferno deals damage and leaves the target with a burn. Inferno has the lowest accuracy of all Fire-type moves.

Title: Water Pledge (move)

Water Pledge (Japanese: みずのちかい Water Oath) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM145 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Along with Fire Pledge and Grass Pledge, Water Pledge is one of the battle-combo moves. All Water-type first partner Pokémon and their Evolutions can learn this move. When two allies attempt to use Water Pledge and either Fire Pledge or Grass Pledge on the same turn, the ally moving first will not itself use a move, but instead the ally moving second will use a combined attack with a power of 150 and an additional effect immediately after it: If Water Pledge and Fire Pledge are used in the same turn, the ally moving second will use Water Pledge with a power of 150, and create a rainbow on the user's side of the field for four turns. The rainbow doubles the probability of additional effects taking place for moves used by that side of the field (including the chance of flinching caused by King's Rock and Razor Fang, but not including Secret Power); this effect is cumulative with Serene Grace for chances to cause a stat change or inflict a status, but not for chances to cause flinching. Due to the way certain secondary effects are handled, this can lead to an overflow glitch. If Water Pledge and Grass Pledge are used in the same turn, the ally moving second will use Grass Pledge with a power of 150, and create a swamp on the target's side of the field for four turns. This swamp quarters the Speed of all Pokémon on that side of the field. If a Pokémon uses one Pledge move and a partner has selected another Pledge move, but none of its partners are able to use their selected Pledge move that turn (e.g. paralysis, Sky Drop, etc.), no move will be executed. Water Pledge is unaffected by a held Water Gem (and will not consume it). If a combined move is used, it will always receive the same-type attack bonus no matter which Pokémon is the one executing it, or what type the combined move is. Water Pledge's regular power changed from 50 to 80. Water Pledge can be used again, but its effects do not take effect in Tera Raid battles. Various Move Tutors can teach Water Pledge to any Water-type first partner Pokémon of any evolutionary stage. In Generation VII, the Move Tutor will also teach Water Pledge to the Water-type elemental monkeys. From Generation V to VII, Move Tutors will only teach this move to Pokémon with maximized friendship. BW: a man in the house to the right of the market in Driftveil City. B2W2: a man outside of the Pokémon World Tournament building. SMUSUM: a man on the second level of Hau'oli City's mall. Water Pledge deals damage. In Super Mystery Dungeon, when Water Pledge is used with Fire Pledge in an Alliance, the user's party will get the rainbow condition for five turns, which increases the probability of secondary effects taking place. When used with Grass Pledge, the enemies in the same room will get the swamp condition for five turns, which reduces their Speed stat. In Rescue Team DX, Alliances are no longer present. Instead, when Water Pledge is used with a teammate in a position from which it can use Fire Pledge (that is, also adjacent to the enemy), Water Pledge's power will be increased and the teammates in the same room will get the Rainbow condition. 1 PP of Fire Pledge will also be used (and the teammate with Fire Pledge can still make another move on that turn). Water Pledge's effect with Grass Pledge will only activate when Grass Pledge is used. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Sword and Shield, Silvally is programmed to be able to be taught Water Pledge. However, the Move Tutor will only ever offer to teach it Grass Pledge, making Water Pledge and Fire Pledge unable to be learned legitimately.

Title: Fire Pledge (move)

Fire Pledge (Japanese: ほのおのちかい Flame Oath) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM144 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Along with Water Pledge and Grass Pledge, Fire Pledge is one of the battle-combo moves. All Fire-type first partner Pokémon and their Evolutions can learn this move. When two allies attempt to use Fire Pledge and either Water Pledge or Grass Pledge on the same turn, the ally moving first will not itself use a move, but instead the ally moving second will use a combined attack with a power of 150 and an additional effect immediately after it: If Fire Pledge and Water Pledge are used in the same turn, the ally moving second will use Water Pledge with a power of 150, and create a rainbow on the user's side of the field for four turns. The rainbow doubles the probability of additional effects taking place for moves used by that side of the field (including the chance of flinching caused by King's Rock and Razor Fang, but not including Secret Power); this effect is cumulative with Serene Grace for chances to cause a stat change or inflict a status, but not for chances to cause flinching. Due to the way certain secondary effects are handled, this can lead to an overflow glitch. If Fire Pledge and Grass Pledge are used in the same turn, the ally moving second will use Fire Pledge with a power of 150, and create a sea of fire on the target's side of the field for four turns. The sea of fire damages all non-Fire-type Pokémon on that side of the field for 1/8 of their maximum HP at the end of each turn. If a Pokémon uses one Pledge move and a partner has selected another Pledge move, but none of its partners are able to use their selected Pledge move that turn (e.g. paralysis, Sky Drop, etc.), no move will be executed. Fire Pledge is unaffected by a held Fire Gem (and will not consume it). If a combined move is used, it will always receive the same-type attack bonus no matter which Pokémon is the one executing it, or what type the combined move is. Fire Pledge's regular power changed from 50 to 80. Fire Pledge can be used again, but its effects do not take effect in Tera Raid battles. Various Move Tutors can teach Fire Pledge to any Fire-type first partner Pokémon of any evolutionary stage. In Generation VII, the Move Tutor will also teach Fire Pledge to the Fire-type elemental monkeys. From Generation V to VII, Move Tutors will only teach this move to Pokémon with maximized friendship. BW: a man in the house to the right of the market in Driftveil City. B2W2: a man outside of the Pokémon World Tournament building. SMUSUM: a man on the second level of Hau'oli City's mall. Fire Pledge deals damage. In Super Mystery Dungeon, when Fire Pledge is used with Water Pledge in an Alliance, the user's party will get the rainbow condition for five turns, which increases the probability of secondary effects taking place. When used with Grass Pledge, the enemies in the same room will get the sea of fire condition, which damages all opponent non-Fire-type Pokémon for five turns. In Rescue Team DX, Alliances are no longer present. Instead, when Fire Pledge is used with a teammate in a position from which it can use Grass Pledge (that is, also adjacent to the enemy), Fire Pledge's power will be increased and the enemies in the same room will get the Sea of Fire condition, which damages all opponent non-Fire-type Pokémon for five turns. 1 PP of Grass Pledge will also be used (and the teammate with Grass Pledge can still make another move on that turn). Fire Pledge's effect with Water Pledge will only activate when Water Pledge is used. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and in Pokémon Sword and Shield, Silvally is programmed to be able to be taught Fire Pledge. However, the Move Tutor will only ever offer to teach it Grass Pledge, making Fire Pledge and Water Pledge unable to be learned legitimately.

Title: Grass Pledge (move)

Grass Pledge (Japanese: くさのちかい Grass Oath) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM146 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Along with Water Pledge and Fire Pledge, Grass Pledge is one of the battle-combo moves. All Grass-type first partner Pokémon and their Evolutions can learn this move. When two allies attempt to use Grass Pledge and either Fire Pledge or Water Pledge on the same turn, the ally moving first will not itself use a move, but instead the ally moving second will use a combined attack with a power of 150 and an additional effect immediately after it: If Grass Pledge and Fire Pledge are used in the same turn, the ally moving second will use Fire Pledge with a power of 150, and create a sea of fire on the target's side of the field for four turns. The sea of fire damages all non-Fire-type Pokémon on that side of the field for 1/8 of their maximum HP at the end of each turn. If Grass Pledge and Water Pledge are used in the same turn, the ally moving second will use Grass Pledge with a power of 150, and create a swamp on the target's side of the field for four turns. This swamp quarters the Speed of all Pokémon on that side of the field. If a Pokémon uses one Pledge move and a partner has selected another Pledge move, but none of its partners are able to use their selected Pledge move that turn (e.g. paralysis, Sky Drop, etc.), no move will be executed. Grass Pledge is unaffected by a held Grass Gem (and will not consume it). If a combined move is used, it will always receive the same-type attack bonus no matter which Pokémon is the one executing it, or what type the combined move is. Grass Pledge's regular power changed from 50 to 80. Grass Pledge can be used again, but its effects do not take effect in Tera Raid battles. Various Move Tutors can teach Grass Pledge to any Grass-type first partner Pokémon of any evolutionary stage. In Generation VII, the Move Tutor will also teach Grass Pledge to the Grass-type elemental monkeys, and starting in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, to Silvally. From Generation V to VII, Move Tutors will only teach this move to Pokémon with maximized friendship. BW: a man in the house to the right of the market in Driftveil City. B2W2: a man outside of the Pokémon World Tournament building. SMUSUM: a man on the second level of Hau'oli City's mall. Grass Pledge deals damage. In Super Mystery Dungeon, when Grass Pledge is used with Water Pledge in an Alliance, the enemies in the same room will get the swamp condition for five turns, which reduces their Speed stat. When used with Fire Pledge, the enemies in the same room will get the sea of fire condition, which damages all opponent non-Fire-type Pokémon for five turns. In Rescue Team DX, Alliances are no longer present. Instead, when Grass Pledge is used with a teammate in a position from which it can use Water Pledge (that is, also adjacent to the enemy), Grass Pledge's power will be increased and enemies in the same room will get the Swamp condition for five turns, which reduces their Speed stat. 1 PP of Water Pledge will also be used (and the teammate with Water Pledge can still make another move on that turn). Grass Pledge's effect with Fire Pledge will only activate when Fire Pledge is used. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and Pokémon Sword and Shield, Silvally is intended to be able to be taught Grass Pledge, Fire Pledge, and Water Pledge via Move Tutor. However, due to a programming error, the Move Tutor will only offer to teach it Grass Pledge, making it unable to learn the other two moves.

Title: Volt Switch (move)

Volt Switch (Japanese: ボルトチェンジ Volt Change) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation V. TM72 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM43 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Volt Switch deals damage and then switches the user out. The same Pokémon cannot be sent back out after using Volt Switch. The user will not be switched out if the user is the only Pokémon in the party that is able to battle, if Volt Switch fails to hit the target, if the opponent is not affected by Volt Switch, if Volt Switch triggers an opponent's Wimp Out or Emergency Exit Ability, or if using Volt Switch ends the battle. If Volt Switch knocks out an opposing Trainer's Pokémon, the next Pokémon sent out by the user will not be counted for additional experience (although if it is holding an Amulet Coin or Luck Incense, it will be counted for that). If the foe Pokémon uses Pursuit on the same turn Volt Switch is used, Pursuit will deal normal damage if the foe is faster, or double damage if the foe is slower than the user. Volt Switch may be used to switch out of Ingrain, but Ingrain's effects will not be passed on. Volt Switch can also be used to switch out even if the user is under the effect of Arena Trap, Magnet Pull, Shadow Tag, Mean Look, Spider Web, or Block. Volt Switch will not force a switch if the user is holding a Red Card or the target is holding an Eject Button. Volt Switch can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if Charge was used in the prior turn. Volt Switch inflicts damage. If there is a teammate right behind the user, the user will switch positions with the teammate after using this move. In Pokémon GO, Volt Switch is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Volt Switch is Zeraora's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Agility into it instead of Spark. The user charges forward, damaging enemies in their path and increasing their basic attack speed for a short time. Activating this again within 3s will teleport the user to their original location. At level 12, the increased basic attack speed duration and move's damage are increased. In the animated series, Volt Switch can bring out a Pokémon that does not belong to the user's Trainer.

Title: Struggle Bug (move)

Struggle Bug (Japanese: むしのていこう Insect Opposition) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM76 in Generations V and VI and is TM015 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Struggle Bug inflicts damage to all adjacent opponents and lowers the targets' Special Attack by one stage. Struggle Bug's power has been changed to 40. It also lowers the target's offensive stats for three turns. Struggle Bug deals damage to nearby enemies and lowers their Sp. Atk by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Struggle Bug is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Sp. Atk. In Homecoming, Burgh's Leavanny was revealed to know Struggle Bug, but the move was used off-panel. Despite not being based on an arthropod, Staraptor (and Mew, who can learn all TM moves) can learn this move. This move's English name may be a pun on the expression "struggle bus", which is slang for a difficult or frustrating situation.

Title: Bulldoze (move)

If you were looking for the specialty in Pokémon Pokopia, see Bulldoze (specialty). Bulldoze (Japanese: じならし Ground Levelling) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation V. TM78 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM83 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Bulldoze inflicts damage and lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage. In Double Battles, it strikes both the opponents and the user's partner. In Triple Battles, it strikes all adjacent Pokémon. If Grassy Terrain is in effect, Bulldoze deals only half the usual damage. Bulldoze can only hit one target, like all other moves in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It also lowers the target's action speed. Bulldoze generates its damaging area around the user, similar to Sludge Wave and Earthquake. Bulldoze inflicts damage to all adjacent enemies and lowers their Travel Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The more the target's Speed is lowered, the greater the power of this move. In Pokémon UNITE, Bulldoze is Garchomp's second starting move. The user stomps the ground forcefully, dealing damage in a radius. After reaching level 7 as Gabite, the move is replaced by either Earthquake or Dragon Claw.

Title: Frost Breath (move)

Frost Breath (Japanese: こおりのいぶき Ice Breath) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation V. It is TM79 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon and TM138 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Frost Breath inflicts damage and will always result in a critical hit unless the target has Battle Armor, Shell Armor, or is under the effect of Lucky Chant. Frost Breath's power was increased from 40 to 60, coinciding with critical hits now dealing 1.5× damage instead of 2× damage. Frost Breath deals damage and will always land a critical hit, unless prevented by Battle Armor, Shell Armor, or Lucky Chant. Regice and Snover can learn Frost Breath, despite having no visible orifice from which to expel breath. Frost Breath is the only special move with a perfect critical-hit ratio.

Title: Dragon Tail (move)

Dragon Tail (Japanese: ドラゴンテール Dragon Tail) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation V. TM82 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM17 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Dragon Tail inflicts damage and has decreased priority. In a Trainer battle, it will switch out the target to the next Pokémon in line that has not fainted (if there is one). In a wild Pokémon battle with a single wild Pokémon, this move will cause the battle to end if the user's level is equal or greater than the target's; however, if there are multiple wild Pokémon in the battle, it works the same as in a Trainer battle. If using this move causes the user to faint (such as if the target is holding a Rocky Helmet or has the Ability Rough Skin or Iron Barbs), the target will not be forced to switch. Dragon Tail will fail to end wild Pokémon battles or switch out the opposing Trainer's Pokémon if the target has the Ability Suction Cups, is under the effects of Ingrain, or has Substitute set up. Dragon Tail can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if any of the moves Spikes, Stealth Rock, or Toxic Spikes was used in the prior turn. When used on a Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon, Dragon Tail will deal damage but not force the target to switch out. Dragon Tail deals damage and blows the enemy away by ten tiles. If the target collides with a wall or another Pokémon, the target (and the other Pokémon) will take 5 HP damage. If the move is activated twice in one turn, Dragon Tail will hit the enemy twice and blow them away up to 20 tiles. When used by a Gigantic Pokémon in Gates to Infinity, Dragon Tail hits nearby enemies in a 1 tile range around the user, has a base PP of 20, and a base accuracy of 90%. In Pokémon GO, Dragon Tail is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragon Tail is Duraludon's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Metal Claw into it instead of Stealth Rock. The user shoves enemies and moves itself backward a short distance. The next basic attack becomes a boosted attack. This move ignores obstacles. A maximum of 2 uses can be kept in reserve for this move. There is a 1.1s cooldown between uses. At level 13, the move applies a mark that is consumed the next time the user damages them, dealing additional damage. Naganadel (in Generation VII) and Shelgon (in Generation IX) can both learn Dragon Tail despite lacking a proper tail. In Generation IX, Skrelp can learn Dragon Tail via TM, but its evolved form Dragalge cannot.

Title: Work Up (move)

Work Up (Japanese: ふるいたてる Cheer Up) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. TM01 in Pokémon Sun and Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM10 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Work Up raises the user's Attack and Special Attack stats by one stage each. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Work Up, the user's Attack stat is raised by an additional one stage. Work Up raises the user's Attack and Sp. Atk by one stage each. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Work Up could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Work Up could be seen as a move used by Boss Herdier.

Title: Electroweb (move)

Electroweb (Japanese: エレキネット Elecnet) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation V. Electroweb inflicts damage and then lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage. Electroweb can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move String Shot was used in the prior turn. Electro Web inflicts damage and lowers the enemy's Travel Speed by one stage. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. This buddy move was known as B Electroweb prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon UNITE, Electroweb is one of Pikachu's two starting moves. It is obtained either at level 1 or 3 (depending if Thunder Shock is learned first). Electroweb has the user attack and capture opposing Pokémon with an electric net, leaving them unable to move. By reaching level 6, Electroweb is upgraded into either Volt Tackle or Thunderbolt.

Title: Wild Charge (move)

Wild Charge (Japanese: ワイルドボルト Wild Volt) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation V. TM93 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Wild Charge inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ¼ of the damage done to the target. Wild Charge's power has been lowered to 85. Using Wild Charge will cure the user of drowsiness, and has a chance to paralyze the target. Wild Charge inflicts damage and the user receives recoil damage equal to 10% of the user's max HP. In Pokémon GO, Wild Charge is a Charged Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. This sync move was known as Shining Spotlight Wild Bolt prior to version 2.18.0. In Pokémon UNITE, Wild Charge is Zeraora's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 8 and upgrading Slash into it instead of Discharge. The user charges towards an enemy, damaging them and switching to the nearest enemy if the initial target's HP drops to zero. Hitting enemies with move or boosted attacks previously within a set time provides up to 3 stacks, each stack adding an additional hit to Wild Charge (capped at 6 attacks). The first hit deals full damage and subsequent hits deal half damage. The user is untargetable for the duration of this move. The user takes 1% remaining HP (per hit) as physical damage upon use. The first hit deals 2 instances of recoil damage and subsequent hits deal only 1. At level 14, the move also hits enemies near the target. In Homecoming, Elesa's Zebstrika was revealed to know Wild Charge, but the move was used off-panel. This move's English and Japanese names are both puns, with the words bolt and charge having both running and electricity-related meanings. This explains the fact many non-Electric-type Pokémon can learn this move.

Title: Drill Run (move)

Drill Run (Japanese: ドリルライナー Drill Liner) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation V. TM58 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. Drill Run deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. Drill Run can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Focus Energy was used in the prior turn. Drill Run inflicts damage. It has an increased critical hit ratio.

Title: Dual Chop (move)

Dual Chop (Japanese: ダブルチョップ Double Chop) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type multistrike move introduced in Generation V. It is TM135 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Dual Chop inflicts damage, hitting twice per use. Each strike has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Dual Chop will hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact or a Rocky Helmet, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability or Rocky Helmet to activate twice. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Dual Chop hits the enemy twice. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. In Pyroar Breathes, Lysandre told his Mienfoo to use Dual Chop, but the move was used off-panel. Ambipom can't learn this move by Move Tutor in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, despite it learning the move by level-up starting in Generation VII.

Title: Heart Stamp (move)

Heart Stamp (Japanese: ハートスタンプ Heart Stamp) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. Heart Stamp inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Heart Stamp deals damage and may flinch the target.

Title: Horn Leech (move)

Horn Leech (Japanese: ウッドホーン Wood Horn) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation V. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature move of Sawsbuck. Horn Leech inflicts damage, and up to 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user as HP. If this attack deals 1 HP of damage, 1 HP will be restored to the user. When used on a Pokémon with the Liquid Ooze Ability, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Horn Leech cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. Horn Leech inflicts damage, with ½ of the damage dealt restored to the user as HP. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. In Pokémon UNITE, Horn Leech is Trevenant's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Branch Poke into it instead of Pain Split. The user charges forward becoming unstoppable, dealing damage to enemies and stunning them while dashing in the designated duration. At the end of the charge, enemies that were shoved are dealt additional damage and then thrown. Colliding with an enemy while charging recovers the user's HP 3 times, and the lower the user's remaining HP the more HP that is recovered. After this move hits an enemy, the user's next three basic attacks deal more damage and reduce this move's cooldown by .5s (for each enemy hit) when they hit. At level 13, after using this move, the user's movement speed is increased for a short time.

Title: Sacred Sword (move)

Sacred Sword (Japanese: せいなるつるぎ Sacred Sword) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. Prior to Generation VI, it was the signature move of the Swords of Justice. Sacred Sword inflicts damage, ignoring the target's Defense and evasion stat changes. Sacred Sword's PP was reduced to 15. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. When Cobalion, Terrakion, Virizion, or Keldeo uses Sacred Sword, its Attack and Special Attack stats increase. Sacred Sword deals damage. The enemy's stat changes in Defense and evasiveness do not affect the move's damage calculation. In Pokémon GO, Sacred Sword is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 17, 2020. Description prior to unknown version past version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Ignores the target's raised stats when attacking with this move. In Pokémon UNITE, Sacred Sword is Aegislash's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Doublade at level 5 and upgrading Shadow Sneak into it instead of Shadow Claw. The user thrusts its blade into the ground, creating a triangular zone. This zone erupts with a hidden power, dealing damage to enemies in the area and throws them. Also increases boost count by 1 for each enemy hit (capped at 2 for wilds, 4 for players). At the same time as the eruption, the user slashes forward, dealing additional damage to enemies hit. For a short time after this slash hits, damage dealt by the user ignores 45% of the enemies' Defense. At level 11, this move also increases Attack by 50 for a short time after hitting enemies with the triangle attack. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ With the exception of Oshawott, every Pokémon that learns this move has a sword motif. However, it's worth noting that Oshawott evolves into Samurott, which uses its seamitars like swords.

Title: Razor Shell (move)

Razor Shell (Japanese: シェルブレード Shell Blade) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation V. It was TM83 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Razor Shell inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Razor Shell inflicts damage and may lower the target's Defense. In Pokémon GO, Razor Shell is a Charged Attack that has been available since September 19, 2021. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a good chance of lowering the target's Defense.

Title: Heat Crash (move)

Heat Crash (Japanese: ヒートスタンプ Heat Stamp) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Tepig's evolutionary line. It was TR88 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM189 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Heat Crash deals damage. Its power depends on the weight of both the user and the target; the greater the difference between the user's weight and the target's weight, the greater the power: If the target has used Minimize, Heat Crash now deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Heat Crash behaves similarly to Heavy Slam, Dragon Rush, Fly and Bounce, causing the user to leap high up into the air (briefly avoiding moves that pass through their position), before crashing back down on the target. If used against the Hyperrogue Ange Floette flowers, Heavy Slam will always have a base power of 120. Heat Crash deals damage. Its power depends on the weight of both the user and the target; the lighter the target is in comparison to the user, the greater the power. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder With a weight of 2.2 lbs., Sizzlipede is the lightest Pokémon that can have this move.

Title: Leaf Tornado (move)

Leaf Tornado (Japanese: グラスミキサー Grass Mixer) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation V. Leaf Tornado inflicts damage and has a 50% chance to lower the target's accuracy by one stage. Leaf Tornado deals damage and may lower the enemy's accuracy. In Pokémon GO, Leaf Tornado is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 19, 2019. Secondary effect: 1 Opponent Attack → 2 Opponent Attack In Pokémon UNITE, Leaf Tornado is Eldegoss's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Gossifleur at level 4 and upgrading Leafage into it instead of Pollen Puff. The user conjures a tornado full of leaves, which damages enemies and creates a gust of wind that increases the movement speed of allies that touch it. When the tornado reaches max distance, it damages enemies near it a second time. At level 11, enemies hit by the tornado will miss all of their basic attacks for 2.5s. Leaf Tornado was the first Generation V move seen in the animated series. It was used by Trip's Snivy in In the Shadow of Zekrom!.

Title: Steamroller (move)

Steamroller (Japanese: ハードローラー Hard Roller) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation V. Steamroller inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Steamroller cannot make a target with a substitute flinch. If the target has used Minimize, Steamroller deals double its regular damage. If the target has used Minimize, Steamroller now bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Steamroller deals damage and may cause the enemy to flinch. Steamroller is the only Bug-type move capable of making the target flinch.

Title: Cotton Guard (move)

Cotton Guard (Japanese: コットンガード Cotton Guard) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation V. Cotton Guard raises the user's Defense stat by three stages. Cotton Guard can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Baton Pass and Stored Power to give the user an extra three appeal points if they are used in the next turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Cotton Guard, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. Cotton Guard raises the user's Defense by three stages. In Pokémon UNITE, Cotton Guard is Eldegoss's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Synthesis into it instead of Cotton Spore. The user creates barriers out of cotton, granting itself and all nearby allies a shield for 3s. When the shield expires, it restores HP equal to 30% of the remaining shield value. At level 13, the move also briefly increases user's movement speed.

Title: Night Daze (move)

Night Daze (Japanese: ナイトバースト Night Burst) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation V. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Unovan Zorua and Zoroark. Night Daze deals damage and has a 40% chance of lowering the target's accuracy by one stage. In Pokémon Sword and Shield, due to a glitch, when Night Daze plays its animation and damages its target, and the target does not faint, the HP bar does not visibly change until the end of the turn or something else changes its HP. Night Daze inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's accuracy by one stage. Night Daze: Arc Suit N & Zoroark's passive skill The Bridge Between Pokémon and Humans makes this move have a 100% chance of lowering the target's accuracy by six stat ranks with each hit. Almighty Obsidian Night Daze: Arc Suit N & Zoroark's passive skill The Bridge Between Pokémon and Humans makes this move lower the target's accuracy by six stat ranks with each hit. In Pokémon UNITE, Zoroark's Unite Move, Nightfall Daze, is similar to Night Daze.

Title: Psystrike (move)

Psystrike (Japanese: サイコブレイク Psycho Break) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Mewtwo. Psystrike inflicts damage. Psystrike uses the target's Defense instead of its Special Defense to calculate damage. Otherwise, it is considered a special move: it uses the user's Special Attack, activates Mirror Coat and Maranga Berry (not Counter or Kee Berry), has its damage reduced by Light Screen (not Reflect), etc. Psystrike deals damage. The move's damage is determined by the enemy's Defense stat rather than the Sp. Def stat. For Mewtwo's Final Smash, it transforms into Mega Mewtwo Y and then uses Psystrike. In Pokémon GO, Psystrike is a Charged Attack that has been available on September 16, 2019. Despite being Mewtwo's signature move, it was introduced in Generation V, in which Mewtwo could not be obtained except by Poké Transfer or Nintendo events. Psystrike has the same description text as Psyshock. In Conquest, this move has the same description as in Generation V of the core series, including the mention of it dealing physical damage. However, the split of physical and special damage does not exist in Conquest - there is only one attack stat and one defense stat, so all damage is in the same, single category.

Title: Tail Slap (move)

Tail Slap (Japanese: スイープビンタ Sweep Slap) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation V. It was TM84 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Minccino and Cinccino, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Tail Slap inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. There is a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 15% base miss chance) is 65.9. Tail Slap may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the target has Weak Armor, Stamina, or an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Tail Slap unless it misses. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Tail Slap inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end.

Title: Hurricane (move)

Hurricane (Japanese: ぼうふう Windstorm) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation V. Hurricane deals damage and has a 30% chance of confusing the target. Hurricane can hit non-adjacent targets in Triple Battles. Hurricane can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly, Bounce, and Sky Drop. When used during rain, Hurricane bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Dive. When used during harsh sunlight, it has an accuracy of 50%. Hurricane can be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Rain Dance was used in the prior turn. Hurricane's power has been lowered to 100. It also can no longer confuse the target, since the status condition is not present in this game. Hurricane functions similarly to Thunder and Blizzard (coincidentally all moves that have 70% accuracy in the turn-based games). Upon the wind-up completing a small whirlwind effect appears underneath the target's current location, which intensifies into a damaging windstorm after a delay. Due to how Bounce and Fly function in Z-A, Hurricane has no effect against targets using those moves while they are not visible on the screen. Hurricane deals damage and may leave the target confused. It will hit enemies in the air using a move such as Fly and will never miss in rain or heavy rain. However, its accuracy is reduced in sunny weather or harsh sunlight. Leon & Charizard's passive skill Piercing Gaze makes their use of this move never miss. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Never misses when the weather is rainy. Has a moderate chance of leaving the target confused. In Pokémon UNITE, Hurricane is Cramorant's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 4 and upgrading Feather Dance into it instead of Air Slash. The user creates a fierce wind, damaging and throwing enemies caught in the radius. At level 11, the move briefly speeds up the user. In Homecoming, Skyla's Swanna was revealed to know Hurricane, but the move was used off-panel. Both Hurricane and Thunder never miss during rain. This may be a relation to a thunderstorm. Hurricane will not lift Dugtrio or Diglett off the ground in the Generation VI animation like it does with other Pokémon.

Title: Head Charge (move)

Head Charge (Japanese: アフロブレイク Afro Break) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Bouffalant. Head Charge inflicts damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to ¼ of the damage done to the target. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Head Charge could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it is usable and functions as it did in previous generations. Head Charge inflicts damage and the user receives recoil damage equal to 10% of the user's max HP. Despite its Pokédex entries stating that its fur absorbs damage, Bouffalant still takes recoil damage after using this move.

Title: Gear Grind (move)

Gear Grind (Japanese: ギアソーサー Gear Saucer) is a damage-dealing Steel-type multistrike move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Klink's evolutionary line. Gear Grind inflicts damage, hitting twice per use. Each strike has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Gear Grind will hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate twice. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Gear Grind can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Shift Gear was used in the prior turn. Gear Grind hits the enemy twice to deal damage. Starting in Super Mystery Dungeon, if a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end.

Title: Searing Shot (move)

Searing Shot (Japanese: かえんだん Flame Projectile) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Victini. Searing Shot deals damage and has a 30% chance to burn the target. It does not affect opponents with Bulletproof. From Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Searing Shot could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Searing Shot deals damage and may leave the enemy with a burn. Since Generation VI, Searing Shot has the same description text as Lava Plume.

Title: Techno Blast (move)

Techno Blast (Japanese: テクノバスター Techno Buster) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Genesect. Techno Blast inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. The type of Techno Blast depends on the type of Drive held by the user, being Normal-type if there is none held, and Electric, Fire, Ice, or Water with the appropriate Drive. Techno Blast is unaffected by Normalize, Pixilate, Refrigerate, and Aerilate. However, it is affected by Ion Deluge (if the move would be Normal-type) and Electrify. Techno Blast's base power in this generation is 85. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Techno Blast could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. If the user Dynamaxes, the move is displayed as Max Strike, but becomes the Max Move of whichever type of Drive it is holding when used. Techno Blast deals damage. The move's type changes depending on the Drive the user has (the Drive is selected when Genesect is chosen to be a member of the team). In Pokémon GO, Techno Blast is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 5, 2021. Unlike in the core series, Techno Blast's type is fixed, depending on the Drive that Genesect is equipped with. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, Techno Blast's type varies for each Genesect obtained. Techno Blast always displays as a Bug-type move in menus and in battle due to Sygna Suit Hilbert & Genesect's passive skill Bug Shift. However, the type of damage dealt by Techno Blast varies due to their passive skill Hilbert's Plan: If the opponent's weakness type is Fire, Techno Blast deals Fire-type damage. If the opponent's weakness type is Water, Techno Blast deals Water-type damage. If the opponent's weakness type is Electric, Techno Blast deals Electric-type damage. If the opponent's weakness type is Ice, Techno Blast deals Ice-type damage. If the opponent has any other weakness type, Techno Blast deals Bug-type damage.

Title: Relic Song (move)

Relic Song (Japanese: いにしえのうた Ancient Song) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Meloetta. Relic Song deals damage and has a 10% chance of putting the target to sleep. Relic Song hits all adjacent opponents. If successfully used by Meloetta (affecting at least one Pokémon), it will also cause Meloetta to change between its Aria and Pirouette Formes, changing its type, base stats, and EV yield. However, if Meloetta's Ability is changed to Sheer Force, Sheer Force removes Relic Song's form-changing effect. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Relic Song can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. If Meloetta Terastallizes, the type-changing effect of Relic Song will be nullified. Various Move Tutors will teach Relic Song to a Meloetta. According to interface text during the scene in Generation V, Meloetta once knew Relic Song and had forgotten it. The Move Tutors are: BWB2W2: a Musician in Café Sonata in Castelia City. Relic Song deals damage and may cause the enemy to fall asleep. If Meloetta has Relic Song learned, it will be able select its Pirouette Forme upon entering a dungeon. When Meloetta is in Aria Forme, Relic Song of Wonder and Sepia Memories Relic Song are Psychic-type moves due to Rosa (Champion) & Meloetta's passive skill Psychic Performance. When Meloetta is in Pirouette Forme, Relic Song of Wonder and Sepia Memories Relic Song are Fighting-type moves due to Rosa (Champion) & Meloetta's passive skill Fighting Performance. Although Meloetta did not appear in said episodes, it singing the Relic Song was used as background music during Party Dancecapades! and That's Why the Litten is a Scamp!. A remastering of the song that appeared in Meloetta's Moonlight Serenade has also been featured throughout Pokémon the Series: XY and Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon.

Title: Secret Sword (move)

Secret Sword (Japanese: しんぴのつるぎ Secret Sword) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Keldeo. Secret Sword inflicts damage. Secret Sword uses the target's Defense instead of its Special Defense to calculate damage. Otherwise, it is considered a special move: it uses the user's Special Attack, activates Mirror Coat and Maranga Berry (not Counter or Kee Berry), has its damage reduced by Light Screen (not Reflect), etc. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, Secret Sword's power is increased by 50%. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Secret Sword could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. If Keldeo is taught Secret Sword between Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, it will change into its Resolute Form. If it forgets Secret Sword, it returns to its Ordinary Form. Keldeo knowing Secret Sword in Pokémon Black and White remain in its Ordinary Form in other games. In addition, Resolute Form Keldeo knowing Secret Sword in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 cannot be traded to Pokémon Black and White as the data for the form does not exist in those games. In Pokémon Sword and Shield onwards, Keldeo in its Ordinary Form with Secret Sword will change to Resolute Form when it is in the party and either a battle ends or a move is taught to any Pokémon in the party. Various Move Tutors will teach Secret Sword to a Keldeo. In some cases, Keldeo can learn the move when brought to certain locations under certain conditions. The Move Tutors are: BW: Cobalion, Terrakion, and Virizion at the Moor of Icirrus, if the player brings them and Keldeo in the party. B2W2: a large rock in the Pledge Grove, if the player brings Keldeo in the party. In Pokémon GO, Secret Sword is a Charged Attack that debuted on November 25, 2025. It replaces Keldeo's Charged Attack when it transforms from its Ordinary Form into its Resolute Form. Secret Sword can't be replaced with another move using Charged TMs or Elite Charged TMs. Secret Sword inflicts damage. Despite being a special move, Secret Sword uses the target's Defense instead of its Special Defense to calculate damage. Resolute Form Keldeo appears as a Poké Ball summon in both the 3DS and Wii U versions of the game. It slashes opponents with Secret Sword. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Keldeo returns as a Pokémon summoned from the Poké Ball, retaining its behavior from the previous game.

Title: Glaciate (move)

Glaciate (Japanese: こごえるせかい Frozen World) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Kyurem. Glaciate inflicts damage and lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage. Glaciate hits all opponents in Double Battles and all adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Glaciate can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Hail was used in the prior turn. Glaciate inflicts damage on all enemies in the room and lowers their Travel Speed by one stage. When used in Gates to Infinity, it requires a turn to charge up. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Speed. In Pokémon GO, Glaciate is a Charged Attack that was made available on December 23, 2022. When fusing Kyurem into Black Kyurem or White Kyurem, Glaciate becomes Freeze Shock and Ice Burn, respectively. Glaciate has the lowest base power of all Legendary Pokémon's signature moves. If a Kyurem that knows Glaciate fuses with either Reshiram or Zekrom via the DNA Splicers, the move will be replaced by Ice Burn or Freeze Shock, respectively. When the two Pokémon are separated, Ice Burn and Freeze Shock both revert into Glaciate.

Title: Bolt Strike (move)

If you were looking for the Bolt Strike Pokémon, see Thundurus. Bolt Strike (Japanese: らいげき Lightning Strike) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Zekrom. Bolt Strike inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of paralyzing the target. Bolt Strike can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. Bot Strike deals damage and may paralyze the target. In Gates to Infinity, Bolt Strike can only be used by opposing Zekrom (cannot be recruited). Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of leaving the target paralyzed. Description of 6★-EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents." Bolt Strike is tied with Electro Shot for having the highest base power of all Electric-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves.

Title: Blue Flare (move)

Blue Flare (Japanese: あおいほのお Blue Flame) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Reshiram. Blue Flare inflicts damage and has a 20% chance of burning the target. Blue Flare inflicts damage, and may leave the target with a burn. In Gates to Infinity, the move is only able to be used by opposing Reshiram (cannot be recruited). Description of 6★-EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Power of sync move increases by 50%." Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The more the target's stats have been lowered, the greater the power of this move.

Title: Fiery Dance (move)

Fiery Dance (Japanese: ほのおのまい Flaming Dance) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. It is the signature move of Volcarona and its Paradox Pokémon counterpart, Iron Moth. Fiery Dance inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of raising the user's Special Attack stat by one stage. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Fiery Dance could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in previous generations. Fiery Dance inflicts damage, and may raise the user's Sp. Attack by one stage. Pokémon + Nobunaga's Ambition ~ Ranse's Color Picture Scroll ~ While Volcarona and its Paradox relative Iron Moth are the only Pokémon to learn this move, it cannot be learnt by Volcarona's other Paradox relative Slither Wing.

Title: Freeze Shock (move)

Freeze Shock (Japanese: フリーズボルト Freeze Bolt) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Black Kyurem. Freeze Shock deals damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Freeze Shock does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than state that the user is being cloaked in a freezing light. This charge turn can be skipped using a Power Herb. On the following turn, Freeze Shock will deal damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Freeze Shock is selected, the user will not be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. If Freeze Shock is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the target uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user is charging, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Freeze Shock (or fail if it cannot). Sleep, freeze, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Freeze Shock. Freeze Shock gives the user the Freeze Shock status condition on the first turn, and then attacks the turn after. It may leave the target paralyzed. In Pokémon GO, Freeze Shock is a Charged Attack that was made available on February 21, 2025. Black Kyurem can only know this move if Kyurem knew Glaciate prior to fusion. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle will make it so Pokémon are immobilized during encounters and are easier to catch. This increased catch rate also includes accessory devices such as the Pokémon GO Plus. It costs 5,000 Stardust and 5 Kyurem Candy, and lasts 10 minutes. This move seems to draw reference to both Zekrom and Kyurem, as it is Ice-type and its name and side-effect are related to the Electric type. Furthermore, in Pokémon Black and White, the animation for the actual attacking part resembles that of Bolt Strike, one of Zekrom's signature moves. Ice Burn, a move variation of Freeze Shock, likewise references Kyurem and Reshiram. Freeze Shock is tied with Ice Burn for the highest base power of all Ice-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Subzero Slammer based on either of them has the highest base power of all Ice-type moves. Freeze Shock is the only Ice-type move able to cause paralysis (excluding Body Slam, Tri Attack, and Secret Power under the effect of Refrigerate). Freeze Shock and Ice Burn are programmed into Pokémon Black and White, but were not legitimately usable prior to the release of Black 2 and White 2, in which a Smeargle that has Sketched the moves can be traded back to Black and White.

Title: Ice Burn (move)

Ice Burn (Japanese: コールドフレア Cold Flare) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of White Kyurem. Ice Burn deals damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Ice Burn does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than state that the user is cloaked in a freezing air. This charge turn can be skipped using a Power Herb. On the following turn, Ice Burn will deal damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Ice Burn is selected, the user will not be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. If Ice Burn is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the last move used. If the target uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user is charging, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Ice Burn (or fail if it cannot). Sleep, freeze, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Ice Burn. Ice Burn gives the user the Ice Burn status condition for a turn, and will then unleash the move on the next turn, dealing damage to enemies in the same room. It may leave the target with a burn. In Pokémon GO, Ice Burn is a Charged Attack that was made available on February 21, 2025. White Kyurem can only know this move if Kyurem knew Glaciate prior to fusion. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle will make it so the catch circle during encounters moves slower and Pokémon is easier to catch. This increased catch rate also includes accessory devices such as the Pokémon GO Plus. It costs 5,000 Stardust and 5 Kyurem Candy, and lasts 10 minutes. This move seems to draw reference to both Reshiram and Kyurem, as it is an Ice-type move and its side-effect is related to the Fire type. Furthermore, in Pokémon Black and White, the animation for the actual attacking part resembles that of Blue Flare, one of Reshiram's signature moves. Freeze Shock, a move variation of Ice Burn, likewise references Kyurem and Zekrom. Ice Burn is tied with Freeze Shock for the highest base power of all Ice-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Subzero Slammer based on either of them has the highest base power of all Ice-type moves. Ice Burn is the only Ice-type move that is able to cause burn, excluding Tri Attack and Secret Power that have been changed to Ice-type by Refrigerate. The burn side-effect may be a reference to frostbite, which is similar to a burn. It may also reference sodium acetate, which is commonly called "hot ice" due to its superficial similarities to ice but possesses hot temperatures due to the process of crystallization releasing heat. Ice Burn and Freeze Shock are programmed into Pokémon Black and White, but were not legitimately usable prior to the release of Black 2 and White 2, in which a Smeargle that has Sketched the moves can be traded back to Black and White.

Title: Snarl (move)

Snarl (Japanese: バークアウト Bark Out) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation V. TM95 from Generation V to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM78 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Snarl deals damage and lowers the Special Attack of all targets hit by one stage. Snarl hits all adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If used on a Pokémon behind a substitute, it hits that Pokémon's substitute. Snarl can now hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Snarl's power has been increased to 60, and it lowers the target's offensive stats for three turns. It can also only hit one target, like all other moves in this game. Snarl inflicts damage and lowers the enemy's Sp. Atk by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Snarl is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. This move never misses when used by Marnie & Liepard due to their passive skill Piercing Gaze. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Sp. Atk. Prior to the release of Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, this move had a very unique distribution, being simultaneously a TM and an event-exclusive move due to TM95 not being available yet. Thus the only way to give many Pokémon Snarl at the time was to receive the event Zoroark listed above, then pass down the move via breeding, chain breeding, or Sketch, taking advantage of the fact that TM moves can be passed down. Outside of Volt Tackle, this was the only case where a move that is not an Egg Move required breeding to obtain. Snarl is the only variant of Icy Wind that does not lower the target's Speed. Snarl is the only damage-dealing sound-based move with an accuracy below 100%.

Title: Icicle Crash (move)

Icicle Crash (Japanese: つららおとし Icicle Drop) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation V. Icicle Crash inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Icicle Crash can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining extra three appeal points if the move Hail was used in the prior turn. Icicle Crash's base power has been lowered to 80. Instead of causing flinching, it lowers the target's action speed. Icicle Crash deals damage and may make the enemy flinch. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch. In Pokémon UNITE, Icicle Crash is Mamoswine's first move. It is obtained by evolving into Piloswine at level 5 and upgrading Ice Shard into it instead of Ice Fang. The user drops icicles on the designated location, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and decreasing their movement speed for a short time. The final icicle shatters after a set amount of time or when hit by the user's other moves or boosted attacks, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and leaving them frozen. If the icicle is shattered by Tackle or High Horsepower, the ground is covered in ice, which increases the movement speed of allies that run over it. At level 11, the final icicle leaves enemies hit unable to act for a short time.

Title: Fusion Flare (move)

Fusion Flare (Japanese: クロスフレイム Cross Flame) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Reshiram and White Kyurem. Fusion Flare inflicts damage. The base power of Fusion Flare will double if any Pokémon has successfully used Fusion Bolt previously in the same turn, with no intervening moves in between, except perhaps for failed moves. If this power increase applies, it also causes Fusion Flare to have a different animation than normal. Likewise, Fusion Flare will cause a later Fusion Bolt to have doubled power if it's the next successful move used in the same turn. If the user is frozen, Fusion Flare will thaw it before using the move. If a single Pokémon manages to use both fusion moves consecutively in the same turn (via Instruct), the second one will still receive the power increase. In Pokémon GO, Fusion Flare is a Charged Attack that was made available on December 31, 2022.

Title: Fusion Bolt (move)

Fusion Bolt (Japanese: クロスサンダー Cross Thunder) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation V. It is one of the signature moves of Zekrom and Black Kyurem. Fusion Bolt inflicts damage. The base power of Fusion Bolt will double if any Pokémon has successfully used Fusion Flare previously in the same turn, with no intervening moves in between, except perhaps for failed moves. If this power increase applies, it also causes Fusion Bolt to have a different animation than normal. Likewise, Fusion Bolt will cause a later Fusion Flare to have doubled power if it's the next successful move used in the same turn. If a single Pokémon manages to use both fusion moves consecutively in the same turn (via Instruct), the second one will still receive the power increase. Fusion Bolt can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. In Pokémon GO, Fusion Bolt is a Charged Attack that was made available on January 10, 2023. Pocket Monsters BW: The Heroes of Fire and Thunder Fusion Bolt is the last move in Generation V in index number order.

Title: Flying Press (move)

Flying Press (Japanese: フライングプレス Flying Press) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Hawlucha. Flying Press deals damage. In this generation, it has a power of 80. Despite being a Fighting-type move, the damage dealt is actually a combination of Fighting and Flying types, and thus its effectiveness against a given Pokémon differs from other Fighting-type moves. However, for all other purposes, it is a Fighting-type move: only Fighting-type Pokémon can receive the same-type attack bonus on Flying Press, it is unaffected by items like the Sky Plate and Flying Gem, and it will not activate the target's Coba Berry (but will activate Chople Berry even in cases where a regular Fighting-type move would not deal supereffective damage). If Flying Press is used while under the effect of Electrify or Normalize, damage is calculated using Flying type and Electric or Normal type modifiers instead. If the target has used Minimize, Flying Press deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Flying Press can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. Flying Press is a Fighting and Flying-type move that damages an enemy. In Pokémon GO, Flying Press is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 13, 2020. In HZ131, Master Mayonnaise told his Hawlucha to use Flying Press, but it got too busy posing for its audience to execute the move. Flying Press is the first Generation VI move in index number order. Flying Press is the only move that deals dual-type damage.

Title: Mat Block (move)

Mat Block (Japanese: たたみがえし Tatami Flip) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Greninja, and in Generation VIII, it is the signature move of Throh. Mat Block protects all Pokémon on the user's side of the field from any physical or special moves for that turn. Unlike Protect, Mat Block is not an increased priority move. Mat Block will fail if not used on the first turn after the Pokémon enters the field; the Pokémon must be switched out and back in to be able to use Mat Block again. Some moves will do damage through Mat Block. Most damaging Z-Moves and Max Moves will only do 25% of their original damage, except G-Max One Blow and G-Max Rapid Flow which do full damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Mat Block. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Mat Block. Additionally, Mat Block cannot protect against Future Sight or Doom Desire. If powered up by a Fightinium Z into Z-Mat Block, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Mat Block gives the Mat Block status to the user and teammates in the same room for one turn. This status protects the Pokémon from taking damage from moves, but not from thrown items or explosions. Successfully using Mat Block or other protection moves consecutively reduces the chance of success of it and these moves. Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Mat Block appears at the start of Greninja's Final Smash, Secret Ninja Attack. The initial Mat Block flip sends opponents into the air, allowing Greninja to slice them repeatedly before launching them with a final blow. This move is a reference to a trick that has been used by ninjas, which involves flipping a tatami (a type of mat used as a flooring material in traditional Japanese-style rooms) to block incoming projectile attacks. While Mat Block is usable in Pokémon Sword and Shield, no Pokémon can learn it in those games. The only way to obtain it is to transfer a Throh that already knows the move from an earlier game via Pokémon HOME, since Greninja and Smeargle are not present in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Mat Block is the only protection move that does not have increased priority. Additionally, it is the only one that works on the first turn only.

Title: Belch (move)

Belch (Japanese: ゲップ Belch) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation VI. Belch deals damage. It cannot be selected unless the user has previously eaten a Berry in the current battle. This includes eating another Pokémon's held Berry via Bug Bite, Pluck, or being hit by Fling, unless the Berry can never have an effect when eaten that way. Consuming a Berry through other means (such as Natural Gift, using Fling, or its Trainer giving it a Berry from the Bag) will not enable Belch to be used. After eating a Berry, that Pokémon may use Belch for the rest of the battle, even if it has been switched out and back in, it has fainted then been revived, or the Berry is restored with Recycle, Harvest, or Pickup. Belch deals damage. Belch fails if used by a Pokémon whose Belly is 20 or less. In Pokémon UNITE, Belch is Greedent's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Bullet Seed. The user deals damage to enemies in the area of effect and decreases their movement speed for a short time. If the user has any Berries stashed, consume all of them, reducing Belch's cooldown for each Berry consumed. At level 13, this move's damage is increased. Belch is tied with Gunk Shot for having the highest base power of all Poison-type moves, excluding Z-Moves. An Acid Downpour based on either of them has the highest base power of all Poison-type moves.

Title: Rototiller (move)

Rototiller (Japanese: たがやす Plow) is a non-damaging Ground-type move introduced in Generation VI. Rototiller raises the Attack and Special Attack stats of all grounded Grass-type Pokémon on the field by one stage, except those that are in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Fly or Dig. Rototiller fails if there are no eligible Grass-type Pokémon. Rototiller can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Bullet Seed, Leech Seed, Seed Bomb, and Worry Seed) to give an extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. If powered up by a Groundium Z into Z-Rototiller, the user's Attack stat rises by one stage. Rototiller raises the Attack and Sp. Atk of all grounded Grass-type Pokémon in the user's party in the same room (including the user if it is Grass-type). In Pokémon Pokopia, Rototiller is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Drilbur in Withered Wasteland. It allows Ditto to till dirt or grass into crop fields, as well as pick up plants and flowers. In Pokémon Pokopia, Drilbur can use Rototiller and teach it to Ditto, even though it has never been capable of learning this move.

Title: Sticky Web (move)

Sticky Web (Japanese: ねばねばネット Sticky Net) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation VI. Sticky Web sets an entry hazard around the opposing Pokémon, which lowers their Speed stat by one stage upon switching in. It doesn't affect Flying-type Pokémon, Pokémon with the Levitate Ability, or Pokémon holding an Air Balloon. The moves Rapid Spin and Defog remove the effect of Sticky Web; Rapid Spin removes Sticky Web set around the user, while Defog removes Sticky Web set on both sides. Sticky Web can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving the user an extra three appeal points if String Shot was used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Sticky Web, the user's Speed stat rises one stage. Unlike the other entry hazards present in the Mystery Dungeon games, Sticky Web does not produce a trap on the dungeon floor. It instead targets the enemy in front and reduces their Travel Speed. It also makes the enemy's held item sticky. If a teammate is hit by this move, a random item in the Bag or Toolbox becomes sticky.

Title: Fell Stinger (move)

Fell Stinger (Japanese: とどめばり Finishing Stinger) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation VI. Fell Stinger inflicts damage; if it causes the targeted Pokémon to faint, the user's Attack stat rises by two stages. Fell Stinger has a base power of 30 in Generation VI. Fell Stinger had its power increased to 50. It now raises the user's Attack stat by three stages if it causes the targeted Pokémon to faint. Fell Stinger inflicts damage. If it causes the targeted Pokémon to faint, the user's Attack stat rises by two stages. In Pokémon GO, Fell Stinger is a Charged Attack that has been available since December 11, 2019. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Drastically raises the user's Attack when it knocks out a target with this move.

Title: Phantom Force (move)

Ghost Dive redirects here. For the song, see Ghost Dive (song). Phantom Force (Japanese: ゴーストダイブ Ghost Dive) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM86 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM151 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Phantom Force causes the user to "vanish" on the turn it is used, making it semi-invulnerable, and then reappear the next turn causing damage. Phantom Force hits the target even if it is protected by a protection move, and removes the effects of protection moves from the target for the remainder of the turn; if it hits a target that is protected by protection move that affects its whole side of the field, it removes the protection move from that entire side of the field (even if the protection move would not affect Phantom Force, such as Crafty Shield). If Phantom Force hits a Pokémon protected by a move with a negative effect (such as Spiky Shield), the user will not suffer the negative effect of the protection move. Phantom Force cannot remove the effects of protecting moves if it does not affect the target (such as if the target is Normal-type). If the target has used Minimize, Phantom Force deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In addition, a foe who has just used Lock-On or Mind Reader can still strike through Phantom Force, as well as if the Ability No Guard is possessed by the foe or the user of Phantom Force. If a Pokémon is asleep when it would execute the second turn of Phantom Force, the semi-invulnerable turn will end without the move being executed. If the user is holding a Power Herb, it will consume the Power Herb and execute Phantom Force in one turn. Phantom Force no longer bypasses accuracy checks nor deals double its regular damage against a target that has used Minimize. Phantom Force cannot bypass Max Guard nor lift its effects. The user gains the Phantom Force status on the first turn. On this turn, the Pokémon cannot be hit by moves and projectiles will pass the user as if their tile was empty. On the second turn, the user attacks enemy in the front. The move breaks through the enemy's Protect, Wide Guard, or Quick Guard to damage the enemy. In co-op battles, the user's phantom presence will also fade upon using a unity attack. Description prior to Version 2.11.0 (from July 28, 2021): ...If the user is hit by a sync move while in phantom presence, the presence will fade. In Pokémon UNITE, Phantom Force is Hoopa's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 5 and upgrading Astonish into it instead of Shadow Ball. The user creates a ring under itself and warps to a designated Pokémon's location, dealing damage to nearby opposing Pokémon at that location and shoving them. The user then shoots two sinister flames that deal damage to opposing Pokémon they hit and decrease their movement speed for a short time. This move can be used a second time within a set amount of time. If used a second time, the user can return to the initial location where it warped from. When using this move, if there is a nearby ally Pokémon that is linked by Trick, that ally can also warp to the initial ring's location. The ally Pokémon that warps in this way will recover some HP. At level 12, the move makes the user invincible for a short time when used. In Unbound form, this move is replaced by Hyperspace Fury. The Japanese name of Phantom Force was used as the title for the song Ghost Dive. This move works the same way as Shadow Force, but with higher PP and lower base power.

Title: Noble Roar (move)

Noble Roar (Japanese: おたけび War Cry) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Litleo and Pyroar. Noble Roar lowers the target's Attack and Special Attack stats by one stage. Noble Roar is a sound-based move. Noble Roar can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Noble Roar, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Noble Roar. Noble Roar lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk by one stage each. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk. Although this move is activated as soon as the user enters an attacking posture, the move cannot be used until after the user leaves the posture. This buddy move was known as B Noble Roar prior to version 2.38.0.

Title: Ion Deluge (move)

Ion Deluge (Japanese: プラズマシャワー Plasma Shower) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. For the remainder of the current turn, Ion Deluge causes all Normal-type moves to become Electric-type instead, including status moves. Ion Deluge has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Ion Deluge does not affect Struggle. It does not affect Conversion, which still takes into account a move's original type; therefore a Pokémon with a Normal-type move at the top of its move list (including Conversion itself) using Conversion will become Normal-type and not Electric-type even under the effect of Ion Deluge. Moves that change type, such as Judgment or Revelation Dance, are affected by Ion Deluge if they would otherwise deal Normal-type damage. Moves with a charging turn will only change type if the user is affected by Ion Deluge on the turn the move does damage. The type-changing effect is applied after move type-changing Abilities, so it cannot affect an originally Normal-type move used by a Pokémon with Pixilate but can affect an originally Fairy-type move used by a Pokémon with Normalize. If the move Flying Press used by a Pokémon with Normalize is affected by Ion Deluge, it deals Electric/Flying-type damage. If the move Freeze-Dry used by a Pokémon with Normalize is affected by Ion Deluge, its ability to hit Water-type Pokémon super effectively does not stack with its Electric typing (a Water-type Pokémon hit by the move will only take ×2 damage); in Inverse Battles, Freeze-Dry affected by Normalize and then Ion Deluge will hit Water-type Pokémon super effectively. Due to a glitch, in Version 1.0 of Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, Ion Deluge always fails when used. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Ion Deluge, the user's Special Attack stat rises one stage. The Ion Deluge floor status changes all Normal-type moves to Electric type. The floor status lasts 10 turns. Ion Deluge is one of three moves that have been used in a completed series of the animated series, but not been seen in the English dub. The other two are Conversion and Minimize. Although this move is unusable as of Generation VIII, its effect can still be applied by Plasma Fists.

Title: Parabolic Charge (move)

Parabolic Charge (Japanese: パラボラチャージ Parabola Charge) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. Parabolic Charge does damage with a base power of 50 and restores the user's HP equal to half of the damage dealt. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Parabolic Charge cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. Parabolic Charge can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. It can also be used to start a combination, causing Electrify to give extra three appeal points if used in the next turn. Parabolic Charge had its power increased from 50 to 65. Parabolic Charge inflicts damage to nearby enemy Pokémon, and ½ of the total damage dealt will be restored to the user as HP. In Pokémon GO, Parabolic Charge is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 19, 2022. HP restored is equal to 10% of the damage dealt to each target, summed together. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. Parabolic Charge is the only HP-draining move that can target all adjacent Pokémon, and the only Electric-type HP-draining move.

Title: Petal Blizzard (move)

Petal Blizzard (Japanese: はなふぶき Cherry Blossom Blizzard) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is TM206 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Petal Blizzard does damage to all adjacent Pokémon, including allies. In Horde Encounters, it will target all opponents. Petal Blizzard will also destroy grass patches found in the background of battles.

Title: Disarming Voice (move)

Disarming Voice (Japanese: チャームボイス Charm Voice) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is TM019 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Disarming Voice inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Disarming Voice can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until July 20, 2021, which is 354 days after its release date (on July 31, 2020). Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): Sync move targets all opponents.

Title: Parting Shot (move)

Parting Shot (Japanese: すてゼリフ Parting Shot) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Pancham and Pangoro. Parting Shot lowers the target's Attack and Special Attack stats by one stage each, and then switches the user out. Parting Shot is a sound-based move. Parting Shot can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. If Parting Shot is used on a Pokémon under the effect of Magic Coat or that has the Ability Magic Bounce, the effect is bounced back to the user, lowering the user's Attack and Special Attack, and the target is switched out instead. If an opponent uses Pursuit on the same turn Parting Shot is used, Pursuit deals normal damage if the foe is faster, or double damage if the foe is slower than the user. The user will not switch out if Parting Shot fails (such as if it has no target), if the target is immune (such as due to Soundproof), if it is blocked by a protection move, or if there is no Pokémon in the party that can be sent out to replace the user after switching out. However, the user will switch even if Parting Shot is unable to affect the target's stats (such as due to Clear Body or Mist). The user no longer switches out if Parting Shot is unable to affect the target's stats (such as due to Clear Body or Mist). The user will no longer switch out if the target already has both -6 Attack and Special Attack stat stages (unless the target's Ability is Contrary, in which case the user will not switch out if the target has both +6 Attack and Special Attack stat stages). The user successfully switches out if Parting Shot is unable to affect the target's stats due to Mirror Armor, regardless of whether the user's own stats are reduced as a result. Liquid Voice will turn Parting Shot into a Water-type move, thus making Water-immune abilities block it. If powered up by a Darkinium Z into Z-Parting Shot, if a Pokémon is switched in to replace the user the same turn, that Pokémon has its HP fully restored (even if Z-Parting Shot was not used successfully after gaining its Z-Power effect). Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Parting Shot. Parting Shot lowers the enemy's Attack and Sp. Atk by one stage and the user swaps its position with a teammate behind it (if a teammate is present). A glitch in Generation VII's Battle Spot caused battles to crash when Parting Shot was used as a Z-Move. The same problem occurred with Memento. As a result, both moves were temporarily banned from Battle Spot battles starting in November 2016. The glitch was fixed in the version 1.1 update.

Title: Draining Kiss (move)

Draining Kiss (Japanese: ドレインキッス Drain Kiss) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM87 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM037 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Draining Kiss does damage and restores the user's HP by 75% of the damage dealt. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 97.5% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Draining Kiss cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. Draining Kiss inflicts damage, and ½ of the damage dealt is restored to the user as HP. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. HP restored is equal to 10% of the damage dealt, rounded down. In Pokémon UNITE, Draining Kiss is Sylveon's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Baby-Doll Eyes into it instead of Calm Mind. The user blows a kiss at an enemy that goes back and forth between the user and the target multiple times. When the kiss touches the user, restore HP. When it hits the enemy, deal damage and decrease their movement speed for a short time. If the user and the enemy move too far away from each other, the kiss will disappear faster than normal. At level 12, the healing is increased. In Stealth!! Infiltrate the Energy Plant, Opal's Alcremie was revealed to know Draining Kiss, but she was never seen using the move. Draining Kiss is the only Fairy-type HP-draining move.

Title: Crafty Shield (move)

Crafty Shield (Japanese: トリックガード Trick Guard) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was one of the signature moves of Klefki. Crafty Shield protects all Pokémon on the user's side of the field from status moves. It does not protect against moves that the user is using on itself or that target the user's side of the field (so an ally can still use Acupressure on itself or Aromatherapy). It also does not protect against entry hazard moves or moves that target all Pokémon such as Perish Song. Crafty Shield can be used consecutively without failing. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will remove the effects of Crafty Shield. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Crafty Shield, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by one stage. Crafty Shield gives the user and teammates in the same room the Crafty Shield status condition, which protects against all status moves. This effect lasts for one turn.

Title: Flower Shield (move)

Flower Shield (Japanese: フラワーガード Flower Guard) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. Flower Shield raises the Defense stat of all Grass-type Pokémon on the field by one stage, except those that are in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Fly or Dig. Flower Shield fails if there are no eligible Grass-type Pokémon. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Flower Shield, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Flower Shield raises the Defense of the party's Grass-type Pokémon in the room.

Title: Grassy Terrain (move)

Grassy Terrain (Japanese: グラスフィールド Grass Field) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM88 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM137 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Grassy Terrain creates terrain that envelops the field and replaces the background environment and any other terrain that is already in effect. The terrain fades after five turns. This terrain has the following effects on Pokémon that are on the ground and not in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move: It boosts the power of Grass-type moves used by affected Pokémon by 50% (regardless of whether the target of the move is affected by Grassy Terrain). At the end of each turn, the terrain restores the HP of each affected Pokémon by 1/16 of its maximum HP. It causes Floral Healing to restore up to ⅔ of the target's maximum HP instead of the usual ½. The power of Bulldoze, Earthquake, and Magnitude is halved against affected targets (regardless of whether the user of the move is affected by Grassy Terrain). Secret Power uses the animation of Vine Whip and has a 30% chance of causing the target to sleep. Natural objects disappear and cannot be destroyed while Grassy Terrain is in effect. When a Pokémon with the Ability Grassy Surge enters battle, Grassy Terrain is automatically created. When a Pokémon with the Ability Grass Pelt enters battle, its Defense stat is boosted by 50%. If a Terrain Extender is held when Grassy Terrain is used, the terrain will last 8 turns instead of 5. If a Pokémon is holding a Grassy Seed while the field is Grassy Terrain, it consumes the Grassy Seed and its Defense is increased by one stage (even if it is not otherwise affected by the terrain). If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Grassy Terrain, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. boosts the power of Grass-type moves used by affected Pokémon by 30% instead of the previous 50% changes Terrain Pulse's type to Grass and doubles its base power from 50 to 100 changes a Pokémon's type to Grass if it has the Ability Mimicry Grassy Terrain is automatically created when Max Overgrowth is used or when a Pokémon with Seed Sower is hit by an attack. Defog, G-Max Wind Rage, Steel Roller and Ice Spinner remove Grassy Terrain and any other terrain upon being used. Steel Roller also fails if Grassy Terrain or other terrains are absent. Grassy Terrain changes the dungeon status to Grassy Terrain which triples the natural HP recovery of Grass-types, boosts the power of Grass-type moves by 50%, and reduces the damage taken from Earthquake, Bulldoze, and Magnitude by 50%. This only affects Pokémon on the ground and cannot coexist with other terrains. Grassy Terrain lasts for 10 turns. Prior to version 2.42.0, the sync pair Scottie/Bettie & LeafeonEgg could also use the move Grassy Terrain. However, in version 2.42.0, their move Grassy Terrain was replaced with Grass Wish, likely because Leafeon cannot learn this move in the core series games. In Morphing Manectric, Trevor's Flabébé used Grassy Terrain to protect Élec from an Earthquake set off by a Team Flare Grunt's Tyrunt. However, the move was used off-panel.

Title: Misty Terrain (move)

Misty Terrain (Japanese: ミストフィールド Mist Field) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is TM89 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM139 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Misty Terrain creates terrain that envelops the field and replaces the background environment and any other terrain that is already in effect. The terrain fades after five turns. This terrain has the following effects on Pokémon that are on the ground and not in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. It halves the power of Dragon-type moves used against affected Pokémon (regardless of whether the user of the move is affected by Misty Terrain). It prevents affected Pokémon from being afflicted by non-volatile status conditions (but does not cure Pokémon already afflicted with one). If an affected Pokémon is drowsy due to Yawn, it is prevented from falling asleep. Secret Power uses the animation of Fairy Wind and may lower its target's Special Attack. Natural objects disappear and cannot be destroyed while Misty Terrain is in effect. Misty Terrain does not prevent Pokémon from being confused. Pokémon affected by Misty Terrain can no longer become confused. When a Pokémon with the Ability Misty Surge enters battle, Misty Terrain is automatically created. If a Pokémon is holding a Misty Seed while the field is Misty Terrain, it consumes the Misty Seed and its Special Defense is increased by one stage (even if it is not otherwise affected by the terrain). If a Terrain Extender is held when Misty Terrain is used, the terrain will last 8 turns instead of 5. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Misty Terrain, the user's Special Defense stat rises by one stage. Changes Terrain Pulse's type to Fairy and its base power doubles from 50 to 100. Changes a Pokémon's type to Fairy if it has the Ability Mimicry. Prevents an affected Pokémon who has become drowsy from the effect of G-Max Snooze from falling asleep. Misty Terrain is automatically created when Max Starfall is used. Defog, G-Max Wind Rage, Steel Roller and Ice Spinner remove Misty Terrain and any other terrain upon being used. Steel Roller also fails if Misty Terrain or other terrains are absent. Misty Terrain changes the dungeon status to Misty Terrain which reduces damage caused by Dragon-type moves by 50% and prevents bad status conditions. This only affects Pokémon on the ground and cannot coexist with other terrains. Misty Terrain lasts for 10 turns. Misty Terrain is the only terrain that does not boost the power of moves of its own type. It instead reduces the power of Dragon-type moves used against grounded Pokémon.

Title: Electrify (move)

This article is about the move Electrify. For the field move, see Electrify (Field Move). Electrify (Japanese: そうでん Electrify) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Helioptile and Heliolisk. If the target has not yet used a move, Electrify makes the target's move Electric-type for that turn, even if it is a status move. Moves with a charging turn will only change type if the user is affected by Electrify on the turn it does damage. Electrify will not cause Conversion to change its user into the Electric-type if Conversion is the user's first move. Electrify does not affect Struggle. If the move Flying Press is affected by Electrify, it deals Electric/Flying-type damage. If the move Freeze-Dry is affected by Electrify, its ability to hit Water-type Pokémon super effectively does not stack with its Electric type (a Water-type Pokémon hit by the move will only take ×2 damage); in Inverse Battles, Freeze-Dry affected by Electrify will hit Water-type Pokémon super effectively. Electrify bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Electrify, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Electrify can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Parabolic Charge was used in the prior turn. If used on a Pokémon about to use a damage-dealing Max Move, it will change the move to Max Lightning regardless of the move attempted, except that Gigantamax Pikachu or Toxtricity will have it become their G-Max move instead. If a Gigantamax Rillaboom, Cinderace, or Inteleon has their attempted G-Max move altered by Electrify, the resulting Max Lightning will have only its standard power. Electrify gives the target the Electrify status condition which changes all moves that the affected Pokémon uses to become Electric type.

Title: Play Rough (move)

Play Rough (Japanese: じゃれつく Frolic) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. TM44 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, it can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Let's Snuggle Forever by Mimikyu holding Mimikium Z. Play Rough inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of lowering the target's Attack stat by one stage. Play Rough inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Attack by one stage. This attack targets all opponents and always results in a critical hit when used by Hop & Zacian due to their passive skill The Sword That Saved Galar. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of lowering the target's Attack. In Pokémon UNITE, Play Rough is Azumarill's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 and upgrading Bubble into it instead of Water Pulse. The move increases movement speed by 35% for 4s and changes the next basic attack. When performing the next basic attack, lunge at one enemy in range and deliver repeated blows; dealing damage to that target and leave it unable to act for .75s. Using Play Rough will overwrite any active Aqua Tail attack change. At level 13, the move further increases movement speed when used, and also the cooldown is decreased by 1.5s. Prior to Generation VIII, Play Rough was the only physical Fairy-type move, not counting Z-Moves or Max Moves. However, it is the only one that is widely distributed, as Spirit Break is exclusive to Grimmsnarl and Iron Valiant, while Magical Torque cannot be used by the player.

Title: Fairy Wind (move)

Fairy Wind (Japanese: ようせいのかぜ Fairy Wind) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. Fairy Wind inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Fairy Wind is a Fast Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since September 1, 2022. In Noibat Stands in the Way, Trevor told his Flabébé to use Fairy Wind, but she was unable to hear him and did not perform the move. Fairy Wind is one of the few moves to be adjusted in-between Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX. In Super Mystery Dungeon, it has a one-tile radius, but in Rescue Team DX, it has a two-tile radius. Prior to the release of Pokémon X and Y, a trailer at E3 2013 showed Gardevoir using Fairy Wind. However, Gardevoir cannot learn Fairy Wind in the final release of the game.

Title: Moonblast (move)

Moonblast (Japanese: ムーンフォース Moon Force) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. Moonblast does damage and has a 30% chance of lowering the target's Special Attack by one stage. Moonblast inflicts damage and may lower the enemy's Sp. Atk by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of lowering the target's Sp. Atk. In Pokémon UNITE, Moonblast is Gardevoir's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 as Kirlia and upgrading Confusion into it instead of Psychic. The user moves back while firing a blast, stunning the first enemy hit and damaging all enemies in a cone behind it. At level 13, the move also grants the user a shield. In the June 11, 2013 press release for Pokémon X and Y, it was stated that Moonblast would lower the target's Attack stat; however, in the final game, it lowers their Special Attack instead.

Title: Boomburst (move)

Boomburst (Japanese: ばくおんぱ Sound Wave Bomb) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation VI. Boomburst does damage to all adjacent Pokémon, including allies. Boomburst is a sound-based move. Boomburst can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Boomburst deals damage to all Pokémon in the room including teammates, excluding the user. In Pokémon GO, Boomburst is a Charged Attack that was made available on February 5th, 2023. Boomburst has the highest base power of all moves with no negative effects on the user, and the highest base power of all sound-based moves, excluding Echoed Voice, which can reach a base power of 200. Boomburst was the first Generation VI move to be seen in the animated series. It was used by Alexa's Noivern in Celebrating the Hero's Comet!, prior to the release of Pokémon X and Y.

Title: Fairy Lock (move)

Fairy Lock (Japanese: フェアリーロック Fairy Lock) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Klefki. Fairy Lock prevents all Pokémon (except Ghost types) on the field from switching out or fleeing during their next turn. Fairy Lock does not prevent the effects of moves or items that force the target to switch, such as Dragon Tail, Whirlwind, Eject Button, or Red Card. If a Pokémon that's on the field when Fairy Lock is used goes on to faint later in the same turn, the Pokémon that replaces it will still be unable to switch out in the following turn. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Fairy Lock, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. In version 1.1.0 of Pokémon Sword and Shield only, using Fairy Lock while animations were enabled caused the game to crash. In multiplayer battles, where animations are mandatory, both players' consoles crashed. This bug did not occur in earlier versions and was fixed in version 1.1.1. Fairy Lock inflicts the Stuck status condition on nearby enemy Pokémon.

Title: Play Nice (move)

Play Nice (Japanese: なかよくする Make Friends) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VI. Play Nice lowers the target's Attack stat by one stage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It will hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, or Max Guard but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield. Play Nice bypasses substitutes. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Play Nice, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Play Nice can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Circle Throw, Seismic Toss, Sky Drop, Smack Down, Storm Throw and Vital Throw) to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. In Pokémon Rumble Rush, all status moves including Play Nice could only be used by opposing Pokémon and could not be obtained on any caught Pokémon. Play Nice could be seen as a move used by opposing Swirlix.

Title: Confide (move)

Confide (Japanese: ないしょばなし Secret Talk) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM100 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Impidimp's evolutionary line. Confide lowers the target's Special Attack stat by one stage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move (such as Dig or Fly). Confide can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Confide will hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will be blocked by Crafty Shield. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Confide, the user's Special Defense stat rises by one stage. Throat Chop cannot prevent a Pokémon from using Z-Confide.

Title: Diamond Storm (move)

Diamond Storm (Japanese: ダイヤストーム Diamond Storm) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Diancie. Diamond Storm deals damage. It has a 50% chance to raise the user's Defense by one stage for each Pokémon that it hits. If it increases the user's Defense stat more than once from a single use, the stat-raising animation will play only once, but a message stating that its Defense rose will appear for each increase. Diamond Storm now has a 50% chance to raise the user's Defense by two stages if the move hits, rather than only one stage for each Pokémon that it hits. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Diamond Storm could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Diamond Storm deals damage to enemies adjacent to the user. It may raise the user's Defense. Hilda (Special Costume) & Diancie's passive skill Swag Bag 1 makes this move have a 100% chance of raising their Defense. After Mega Evolving, Hilda (Special Costume) & Diancie's passive skill Fuel Economy 1 makes this move cost only three move gauge slots to use. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. This buddy move was known as B Diamond Storm prior to version 2.38.0. Diamond Storm is the only Rock-type move introduced in Generation VI. In Generation VI only, Diamond Storm is the only move that can raise the same stat multiple distinct times from a single use, without the user having Parental Bond.

Title: Steam Eruption (move)

Steam Eruption (Japanese: スチームバースト Steam Burst) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Volcanion. Steam Eruption deals damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Upon execution, Steam Eruption will thaw the user if frozen (even if the move fails to hit the target). Steam Eruption also thaws a frozen target hit by it. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Steam Eruption could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations.

Title: Hyperspace Hole (move)

Hyperspace Hole (Japanese: いじげんホール Interdimensional Hole) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Hoopa Confined. Hyperspace Hole inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It will also hit the target even if it is protected by Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, King's Shield, Mat Block, Baneful Bunker, Obstruct, Silk Trap, or Burning Bulwark and lifts the effects of those moves for the remainder of the turn; if it hits a target that is protected by Mat Block, it removes Mat Block from the target's side of the field. It also removes the effects of Quick Guard, Wide Guard, and Crafty Shield from the target's side of the field. Hyperspace Hole cannot remove the effects of protecting moves if it does not affect the target (such as if the target is Dark-type). It hits through a substitute. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if Hoopa Confined knows this move and is changed into Unbound form, Hyperspace Hole will be forgotten and replaced with Hyperspace Fury. Hyperspace Hole inflicts damage, and bypasses the enemy's Protect, Wide Guard, Quick Guard, Mat Block, King's Shield, or Spiky Shield. The move will already be at maximum power and starts at 13 PP (though the base PP is coded as 5). In Pokémon UNITE, Hyperspace Hole is Hoopa's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 4 and upgrading Confusion into it instead of Trick. The user creates a large ring at the designated location, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect. After 3s, the user and any allies in the area of effect will return to their base, and their movement speed will be increased for a short time. These allies can also warp back to where the ring was created within 3s. An intact ally forward goal zone can also be designated as the location where the ring is created. Creating the ring on this forward goal zone of the top path will also create a ring on the forward goal zone of the bottom path for 6.5s, and vice versa. All allies, including the user, can use these rings to warp between the two goal zones, and their movement speed will be increased for a short time after warping. After an ally warps, there is a 15s cooldown before that ally can use these rings again. If a path's forward goal zone is destroyed, the middle goal zone on the same path will take its place. This move cannot be used on base goal zones. At level 10, this move also increases the movement speed of ally Pokémon near the ring when they are heading toward it. While in Unbound form, this move is replaced by Psybeam. Hyperspace Hole is the only Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VI. Hyperspace Hole is the only damaging Psychic-type move that never misses, not counting Z-Moves and Max Moves.

Title: Water Shuriken (move)

Water Shuriken (Japanese: みずしゅりけん Water Shuriken) is a damage-dealing Water-type multistrike move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Accelgor in Generation VIII and Greninja in Generation IX. Water Shuriken is a physical move in this generation. Water Shuriken deals damage and is an increased priority move, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. There is a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power is 46.5. Water Shuriken may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Bide and Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the target has Weak Armor, each strike will activate it. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Water Shuriken is now a special move. Mirror Coat will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the target has Water Compaction or Stamina, each strike will activate it. If Battle Bond is activated, Water Shuriken's power rises from 15 to 20, and it always hits three times. Battle Bond no longer has a special interaction with Water Shuriken. Water Shuriken always throws five projectiles per use. As a Plus Move, Water Shuriken will throw only one projectile but will have much higher power. If it is used by Mega Greninja, a different animation is used with a larger, faster projectile. In both cases, it will instead have 75 power. Water Shuriken inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, though the move will continue even when a hit fails. If a Reviver Seed activates, the move will end. Water Shuriken is Greninja's neutral special. It is a chargeable projectile. It slowly travels forward and hits multiple times if fully charged, and functions as a small fast projectile if not charged at all. Unlike other chargeable projectiles, it cannot be stored. In Pokémon UNITE, Water Shuriken is Greninja's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Frogadier at level 7 and upgrading Bubble into it instead of Surf. The user throws 3-5 shurikens made of water which explode when they hit an enemy, damaging and slowing enemies in a small area while healing the user. At level 11, the user throws one more shuriken. Greninja's Unite Move, Waterburst Shuriken, is similar to Water Shuriken. Water Shuriken is the only move to have its category changed since Generation IV (prior to which categories were not assigned to moves individually, but to their types). Water Shuriken is the only multistrike move to have an increased priority. Prior to Generation IX, it was also the only one to be a special move.

Title: Mystical Fire (move)

Mystical Fire (Japanese: マジカルフレイム Magical Flame) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM92 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Mystical Fire inflicts damage and lowers the target's Special Attack stat by one stage. Mystical Fire had its power increased from 65 to 75. Mystical Fire's power was decreased to 70, and it lowers the opponent's offensive stats. Mystical Fire inflicts damage and lowers the enemy's Sp. Atk. In Pokémon UNITE, Mystical Fire is Sylveon's, Delphox's and Chandelure's first move. Sylveon obtains this move after evolving from Eevee at level 4, and upgrading Swift into it instead of Hyper Voice. The user creates four small flames while leaping in the designated direction. The flames shoot toward enemies one by one, dealing damage and decreasing their Sp. Attack by 15% for 1s, stacking up to 4 times. Each time a flame hits, it reduces the cooldown of this move and after the first flame hits, subsequent flames on the same target deal 25% damage. At level 10, a fifth flame is added to the move. Delphox obtains this move by evolving from Braixen at level 6, and upgrading Ember into it instead of Fire Blast. It unleashes a special, hot ball of fire in a forward direction, which explodes if it hits an enemy, dealing damage to all targets in the area-of-effect. At level 11, the move reduces the cooldown of all moves by 1s if it hits a target, reducing a further 1.5s if it hits an enemy from the opposing team. In Pokémon GO, Mystical Fire is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 21, 2023. In An Appetite for Battle!, Wylie intended to command his Delphox to use Mystical Fire, but he threw out his back while trying to do so, so the battle was called off. Mystical Fire is the only Fire-type move that was introduced in Generation VI.

Title: Spiky Shield (move)

Spiky Shield (Japanese: ニードルガード Needle Guard) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation VI. Spiky Shield protects the user from all effects of moves that target it during the turn it is used, including damage. (This does not include damage at the end of a turn such as from weather or a status condition.) If Spiky Shield blocks an attack that would make contact with the user, the attacker suffers damage equal to 1/8 of its maximum HP. If a contact multistrike move is blocked by Spiky Shield, the resulting damage will only apply once. Moves that are blocked do not activate other effects that require making contact, like Rocky Helmet or Rough Skin. If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Spiky Shield will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is divided by 3. Some moves will do damage through Spiky Shield. Most damaging Z-Moves and Max Moves will only do 25% of their original damage, except G-Max One Blow and G-Max Rapid Flow which do full damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Spiky Shield. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Spiky Shield. Status moves that are unaffected by Spiky Shield are listed here. Generally, moves that target the user, moves that target the user and all allies, moves that target all Pokémon, and entry hazard moves cannot be blocked by Spiky Shield. Spiky Shield is an increased-priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Spiky Shield, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. The user gains the Spiky Shield status condition for 1 turn, causing it to be protected from most attacks. The user can still be damaged by items or explosions. Using Protect, Detect, Endure, Spiky Shield, King's Shield, Wide Guard, or Quick Guard consecutively reduces the chance of success of the move.

Title: Aromatic Mist (move)

Aromatic Mist (Japanese: アロマミスト Aroma Mist) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Aromatisse. Aromatic Mist raises the Special Defense stat of a target ally Pokémon by one stage. In a Battle Royal, where there are no allies, it can successfully be used targeting any opposing Pokémon. It will fail if used in a Single Battle or Horde Encounter (even if used by one of the five opposing Pokémon). It will hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move like Fly or Dig. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Aromatic Mist, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by two stages. Aromatic Mist raises the Sp. Defense by one stage of all teammates in the same room.

Title: Eerie Impulse (move)

Eerie Impulse (Japanese: かいでんぱ Mysterious Radio Wave) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM93 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM096 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Eerie Impulse lowers the target's Special Attack stat by two stages. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Eerie Impulse, the user's Special Defense stat rises by one stage. Eerie Impulse reduces the Sp. Attack of an enemy by two stages. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Sharply lowers the target's Sp. Atk. Eerie Impulse is the only variation of Charm that has never been used in the animated series.

Title: Venom Drench (move)

Venom Drench (Japanese: ベノムトラップ Venom Trap) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TR91 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Venom Drench lowers the Attack, Special Attack, and Speed stats of all poisoned targets by one stage. If no targets are poisoned, the move will fail. Venom Drench can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, giving an extra three points if Poison Gas, Poison Powder, Toxic, or Toxic Spikes were used in the prior turn. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Venom Drench, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Venom Drench lowers the Attack, Special Attack, and Travel Speed stats of the target by one stage each if the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each poisoned target hit. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Attack, Sp. Atk and Speed if the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. Fails if the target is not poisoned or badly poisoned.

Title: Powder (move)

If you were looking for the group of moves, see Category:Powder and spore moves. Powder (Japanese: ふんじん Dust) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation VI. Prior to Generation VII, it was the signature move of Vivillon. Powder covers the target in powder for the remainder of the turn. If a Pokémon affected by Powder attempts to use a Fire-type move, they take damage equal to 25% of their maximum HP and cannot execute the move (PP is still consumed). Powder has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Grass-type Pokémon, Pokémon with Overcoat, and Pokémon holding Safety Goggles cannot become affected by Powder (but a Pokémon already affected by Powder will remain affected even if it gains one of these properties). Powder fails if the target is already under the effect of Powder. If a Pokémon with Magic Guard affected by Powder attempts to use a Fire-type move, it will fail to execute the move but take no damage. If a Pokémon affected by Powder attempts to use multiple Fire-type moves in one turn (such as due to Dancer), Powder will activate for each one. Powder does not prevent a Pokémon from thawing itself by using a move like Flame Wheel. If a Pokémon affected by Powder attempts to use Natural Gift while holding a Berry that makes the move Fire-type, the Pokémon takes damage from Powder but the Berry is not consumed. If a Pokémon affected by Powder has Protean and uses a Fire-type move, it will not change type. If a Pokémon affected by Powder uses Fire Pledge after an ally uses Water Pledge, such that the Pokémon ends up using Water Pledge as a combination move, Powder will not affect that move. If a Pokémon affected by Powder uses Fire Pledge otherwise (including as the first move of a combination move, or when using Grass Pledge as a combination move after an ally's Fire Pledge), Fire Pledge will be prevented by Powder like any other Fire-type move. Despite involving a small explosion, Powder is not prevented from use or negated by Damp. Powder will damage the Pokémon even during heavy rain. Powder can prevent a Pokémon from using a Fire-type Z-Move, but status Z-Moves still gain their Z-Power effects. If a Pokémon affected by Powder attempts to use a Fire-type dance move (such as Fiery Dance), that move will not trigger Dancer. Powder will no longer damage the Pokémon during heavy rain. If a Pokémon affected by Powder uses Shell Trap, it will take damage only when it would deal damage instead. Otherwise, Shell Trap fails, and the Pokémon takes no damage. If powered up by a Buginium Z into Z-Powder, the user's Special Defense stat is raised by two stages. Powder targets enemies in the same room and gives them the Powder status condition. A Fire-type move used once by a Pokémon affected by the Powder status will fail, and the Pokémon will also take damage when the move fails. The status lasts 11 turns or ends if the affected Pokémon uses a Fire-type move. It has no effect on Grass-type Pokémon as it is a powder move. Powder is the only move that can be transferred into Pokémon Sword and Shield that is unusable yet doesn't have a generic description stating as such.

Title: Geomancy (move)

Geomancy (Japanese: ジオコントロール Geo Control) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Xerneas. The user charges the move on the first turn. On the second turn, the user's Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed increase by two stages. The held item Power Herb can allow its holder to use Geomancy in one turn, then the Power Herb is consumed in the process. If the user falls for Taunt while charging, the move will fail on the next turn. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Geomancy, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each (before Geomancy's charging turn). If the user is under the effect of Taunt, Z-Geomancy's initial stat-boosting effect as well as its charging turn will execute normally, but the move will fail after the charging turn. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Geomancy could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. The user gains the Geomancy status condition for a turn. On the next turn, the user boosts the Sp. Attack, Sp. Defense, and Travel Speed of the user and teammates. Unlike some sync moves, this move could not be raised to 6★ EX since its release date (of February 11, 2021) until 700 days later (on January 12, 2023). This move raises the Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Speed of all allied sync pairs by a number of stat ranks equal to one more than Professor Sycamore & Xerneas's current move level, which is demonstrated in the following table: In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Xerneas uses Geomancy to temporarily turn fighters into gold versions of themselves that are immune to knockback and more resistant to attacks. They also become surrounded by a rainbow glow that shrinks as time passes to indicate when the effect will end. Geomancy is the only status move that has a charging turn. It is also the only status move that is the signature move of a game mascot. Excluding moves that were only signature moves in certain generations, it is the only signature move to be a Fast Attack in Pokémon GO. When Xerneas uses Geomancy in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the sound effect of a Super Mushroom/Fire Flower from Super Mario Bros. can be heard.

Title: Magnetic Flux (move)

Magnetic Flux (Japanese: じばそうさ Magnetic Field Manipulation) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. Magnetic Flux raises the Defense and Special Defense stats of allied Pokémon (including the user) with the Ability Plus or Minus by one stage each. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Magnetic Flux, the user's Special Defense is raised by one stage (in addition to the raise caused by the move, if applicable). Magnetic Flux sharply boosts the Defense and Sp. Def of Pokémon with the Plus or Minus Ability in the party in the same room.

Title: Happy Hour (move)

Happy Hour (Japanese: ハッピータイム Happy Time) is a non-damaging Normal-type event-exclusive move introduced in Generation VI. Happy Hour doubles the amount of prize money earned at the end of battle (including from Pay Day and Make It Rain). It stacks with the Amulet Coin or Luck Incense, such that the prize money will be quadrupled if both are used. It can be stacked with the Prize Money O-Powers. It does not stack with itself. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Happy Hour, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each. Happy Hour can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Bestow, Fling and Present to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn.

Title: Electric Terrain (move)

Electric Terrain (Japanese: エレキフィールド Elec Field) is a non-damaging Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM90 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM136 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Electric Terrain creates terrain that envelops the field and replaces the background environment and any other terrain that is already in effect. The terrain fades after five turns. This terrain has the following effects on Pokémon that are on the ground and not in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. It boosts the power of Electric-type moves used by affected Pokémon by 50% (regardless of whether the target of the move is affected by Electric Terrain). This boost includes moves that became Electric type due to type-changing moves like Electrify. It prevents affected Pokémon from being afflicted by sleep or Yawn. If an affected Pokémon is already drowsy due to Yawn, it is prevented from falling asleep and the drowsy effect will end. Secret Power uses the animation of Thunder Shock and has a 30% chance of causing paralysis. Camouflage causes the user to become Electric-type. Natural objects disappear and cannot be destroyed while Electric Terrain is in effect. When a Pokémon with the Ability Electric Surge enters battle, Electric Terrain is automatically created. Pokémon with the Ability Surge Surfer have their Speed stat doubled when under the effects of Electric Terrain. If a Terrain Extender is held when Electric Terrain is used, the terrain will last 8 turns instead of 5. If a Pokémon is holding an Electric Seed while the field is Electric Terrain, it consumes the Electric Seed and its Defense is increased by one stage (even if it is not otherwise affected by the terrain). Electric Terrain is removed if Splintered Stormshards is used. If powered up by an Electrium Z into Z-Electric Terrain, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Boosts the power of Electric-type moves used by affected Pokémon by 30% instead of the previous 50%. Doubles Rising Voltage's base power from 70 to 140 if used on a target on Electric Terrain. Changes Terrain Pulse's type to Electric and doubles its base power from 50 to 100. Changes a Pokémon's type to Electric if it has the Ability Mimicry. Boosts the highest stat of a Pokémon with Quark Drive by 30% (50% if speed is the highest stat), even if it is not otherwise affected by the terrain due to not being grounded. Boosts the Special Attack stat of a Pokémon with Hadron Engine by roughly 33% (or more precisely, by a factor of 5461/4096), even if it is not otherwise affected by the terrain due to not being grounded. Gives Psyblade's power a 50% boost from 80 to 120. Electric Terrain is automatically created for 5 turns (8 turns with Terrain Extender) when Max Lightning is used or when a Pokémon with the Ability Hadron Engine enters the field. Defog, G-Max Wind Rage, Steel Roller and Ice Spinner remove Electric Terrain and any other terrain upon being used. Steel Roller also fails if Electric Terrain or other terrains are absent. Electric Terrain changes the dungeon status to Electric Terrain which boosts the power of Electric-type moves by 50% and prevents Pokémon from sleep-related conditions. This only affects Pokémon on the ground and cannot coexist with other terrains. Electric Terrain lasts for 10 turns. Description prior to Version 2.21.0 (from May 26, 2022): Turns the field into Electric Terrain.

Title: Dazzling Gleam (move)

Dazzling Gleam (Japanese: マジカルシャイン Magical Shine) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VI. TM99 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. TM32 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. TM21 in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Dazzling Gleam inflicts damage to all adjacent opponents. Dazzling Gleam's power has been lowered to 75. It can only hit one target. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: The stat increase after a sync move is doubled once per battle." All effects from this buddy move apply to each target hit. This buddy move was known as B Dazzling Gleam prior to version 2.38.0. Stat drops caused by this buddy move apply to each target hit. In Pokémon UNITE, Dazzling Gleam is Alolan Ninetales's and Wigglytuff's first move. Alolan Ninetales can obtain the move by evolving from Alolan Vulpix at level 4 and upgrading Powder Snow into it instead of Avalanche. The user attacks with a powerful cone of blinding light; damaging and stunning enemies hit for .75s. At level 11, its damage is increased and its stun time is increased to 1s. Due to the effect of Snow Warning, Dazzling Gleam slings snow and contributes to Alolan Ninetales freezing opposing Pokémon. Wigglytuff can obtain the move at level 6 and upgrading Pound into it instead of Double Slap. The user emits a flash of fairy energy, dealing a small amount of damage in a cone followed by a large amount of damage. At level 10 or higher, enemies hit by the first flash are slowed down. In Omega Alpha Adventure 21, Ruby told Mega Diancie to use Dazzling Gleam, but the move was executed off-panel. In Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, Dazzling Gleam is consistently depicted as a move that makes contact.

Title: Celebrate (move)

Celebrate redirects here. For the Pokémon Conquest Ability, see List of Abilities in Pokémon Conquest → Celebrate. Celebrate (Japanese: おいわい Celebration) is a non-damaging Normal-type event-exclusive move introduced in Generation VI. Celebrate has no effect in battle. When a Pokémon uses this move, it will disappear and a present will drop down from above and unfold to reveal the Pokémon that used it inside. The battle text will then display: Congratulations, <player>! If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Celebrate, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each. Celebrate can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing Bestow, Fling, and Present to give an extra three appeal points if any of them are used in the next turn. Celebrate is the only event-exclusive move that was distributed for Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!.

Title: Hold Hands (move)

Hold Hands (Japanese: てをつなぐ Hold Hands) is a non-damaging Normal-type event-exclusive move introduced in Generation VI. Hold Hands has no effect in battle. When a Pokémon uses this move in a Double Battle or Triple Battle, it and its target ally will perform a brief animation together. It will fail if used in a Single Battle or Horde Encounter (even if used by one of the five opposing Pokémon). In a Battle Royal, the user is allowed to select any opponent as the target of the move, but it will fail regardless. Hold Hands ignores the target's use of Protect, Detect, or Spiky Shield, but will fail if the target is protected by Crafty Shield or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move like Fly or Dig. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Hold Hands, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each. Hold Hands can be used as a part of a Contest Spectacular combination, causing certain moves (Circle Throw, Seismic Toss, Sky Drop, Smack Down, Storm Throw and Vital Throw) to give an extra three appeal points if any of them is used in the next turn. Hold Hands is the only event-exclusive move to have been depicted in other media, particularly by the Vivillon owned by Yvette in the Pokémon Adventures chapter Xerneas Gives.

Title: Nuzzle (move)

Nuzzle (Japanese: ほっぺすりすり Cheek Nuzzle) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation VI. Nuzzle inflicts damage and paralyzes its target when it hits. Nuzzle can also be used as part of a Contest Spectacular combination, with the user gaining an extra three appeal points if the move Charge was used in the prior turn. It can also be used to start a combination, causing Hex and Smelling Salts to give extra three appeal points if either of them is used in the next turn. The majority of Pokémon that learn Nuzzle are the electric rodents (except for Morpeko), and it used to be exclusive to them until Pokémon Sword and Shield. Hatenna is the only non-Electric-type Pokémon that can learn Nuzzle.

Title: Hold Back (move)

Hold Back (Japanese: てかげん Go Easy) is a damage-dealing Normal-type event-exclusive move introduced in Generation VI. Hold Back inflicts damage, but will leave the target with 1 HP if it would otherwise cause it to faint. If the target has 1 HP remaining, Hold Back will hit and leave the target at 1 HP. Hold Back does not reduce its damage when hitting a substitute. Hold Back was first revealed on the December 18, 2013 episode of Nintendo Direct.

Title: Infestation (move)

Infestation (Japanese: まとわりつく Follow About) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was TM83 from Generation VI to Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Infestation inflicts 1/8 of the target's maximum HP as damage per turn for four to five turns upon use, in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. The quote "<target> has been afflicted with an infestation by <user>!" will appear. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If a trapped Pokémon uses Rapid Spin, it will be freed. If a wild Pokémon uses Infestation on the player's Pokémon, the player may escape if the affected Pokémon has Run Away or is holding a Smoke Ball. However, these do not allow the player to switch the Pokémon out. If an affected Pokémon is holding a Shed Shell, it can switch out. If the user of Infestation is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 7 turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/8 of the target's maximum HP to 1/6. Infestation deals damage and may inflict the Infestation status condition on the enemy. The afflicted Pokémon loses 3 HP at the end of every 2 turns and cannot switch places with the team leader. The status lasts for 6 turns. In Pokémon GO, Infestation is a Fast Attack that has been available since February 16, 2017. This is the only move to play a battle effect in Generation VI games when the option is disabled (specifically, its between-turn effect). Similar effects always played for binding moves in Generation V games; the battle effect oversight for Infestation is perhaps tied both to this Generation V quirk and to Infestation being the only new binding move in Generation VI.

Title: Oblivion Wing (move)

Oblivion Wing (Japanese: デスウイング Death Wing) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation VI. It is the signature move of Yveltal. Oblivion Wing inflicts damage on the target and restores the user's HP by 75% of the damage dealt. It can hit non-adjacent opponents in Triple Battles. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 97.5% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Oblivion Wing cannot be used if the user is under the effects of Heal Block. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Oblivion Wing could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Oblivion Wing inflicts damage, and ½ of the damage dealt will be restored to the user. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Restores the user's HP based on the amount of damage dealt to the target. Each use restores up to half of the user's maximum HP. Description prior to unknown version after version 2.10.0: The more damage dealt to the target, the more this move restores the user's HP. Each use restores up to approximately 50% of the user's maximum HP. Oblivion Wing is the most efficient HP-draining move, recovering 75% of damage dealt with 80 base power (effectively recovering 60 base power's worth of damage). Oblivion Wing is the only Flying-type HP-draining move.

Title: Thousand Arrows (move)

Thousand Arrows (Japanese: サウザンアロー Thousand Arrow) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was not legitimately available until Generation VII. It is one of the signature moves of Zygarde. Thousand Arrows inflicts damage. Despite being a Ground-type move, it can damage ungrounded Pokémon that are Flying-type, have Levitate, hold an Air Balloon, or are affected by Magnet Rise or Telekinesis; a Flying-type Pokémon not already grounded will receive neutral damage from Thousand Arrows, regardless of its secondary type, and the effects of Magnet Rise and Telekinesis will be removed. If the target is Flying-type, has the Ability Levitate, or is under the effect of Magnet Rise or Telekinesis, Thousand Arrows applies its effect to that Pokémon, causing that target to become grounded (vulnerable to Ground-type moves, affected by terrain and Arena Trap) until that target switches out. Thousand Arrows also removes the effects of Magnet Rise and Telekinesis. The effect of Thousand Arrows is not applied if it hits the target's substitute or if the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of Sky Drop, holds an Iron Ball, or is under the effect of Gravity or Ingrain. Thousand Arrows can hit Pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turns of Fly, Bounce, and Sky Drop. If it hits a Pokémon that is using Fly or Bounce, it will knock it down, canceling the move; if it hits a Pokémon using or affected by Sky Drop, it will not be knocked down. A Pokémon under the effect of Thousand Arrows can still use these moves on subsequent turns. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Thousand Arrows could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Thousand Arrows functions similarly to Rock Slide; it creates a number of projectiles that fall around the target, and only deals damage once if a target is struck (additional hits from other projectiles will not deal more damage). Thousand Arrows will not force a Flying-type to be vulnerable to any future Ground-type moves aimed at it, unlike in the other games.

Title: Thousand Waves (move)

Thousand Waves (Japanese: サウザンウェーブ Thousand Wave) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation VI. It was not legitimately available until Generation VII. It is one of the signature moves of Zygarde. Thousand Waves inflicts damage and prevents the target from fleeing or switching out as long as the user remains in battle. Ghost-type Pokémon cannot be trapped by this move. The trapping property of this move is not an additional effect. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Thousand Waves could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Thousand Waves behaves like Earthquake or Sludge Wave: the user enters melee range of a target before creating a circular zone of damage around it. Status changes caused by this move apply to each target hit.

Title: Origin Pulse (move)

Origin Pulse (Japanese: こんげんのはどう Origin Pulse) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature move of Kyogre. Origin Pulse deals damage to all adjacent opponents. Its power is boosted by 50% when used by a Pokémon with the Ability Mega Launcher. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Origin Pulse could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Origin Pulse does not exist in the game data of Pokémon X and Y. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Origin Pulse cannot be traded from Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire to Pokémon X and Y, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon X and Y. In order to be transferred to Pokémon X and Y, the Pokémon must forget Origin Pulse. This move never misses and always results in a critical hit when used by May (Champion) & Kyogre due to their skill Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit. This move never misses and always results in a critical hit due to May (Champion) & Kyogre's passive skill Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit. This sync move always results in a critical hit due to May (Champion) & Kyogre's passive skill Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer Origin Pulse is the only aura and pulse move that cannot be learned by a Pokémon with Mega Launcher. Origin Pulse is also the only aura or pulse move that cannot target non-adjacent Pokémon in Triple Battles to exist in a game featuring Triple Battles.

Title: Precipice Blades (move)

Precipice Blades (Japanese: だんがいのつるぎ Precipice Blades) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature move of Groudon. Precipice Blades deals damage. It targets all adjacent opponents. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Precipice Blades could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Precipice Blades does not exist in the game data of Pokémon X and Y. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Precipice Blades cannot be traded from Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire to Pokémon X and Y, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move, it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon X and Y. In order to be transferred to Pokémon X and Y, the Pokémon must forget Precipice Blades. This move never misses and always results in a critical hit when used by Brendan (Champion) & Groudon due to their passive skill Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit. This move never misses and always results in a critical hit due to Brendan (Champion) & Groudon's passive skill Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit. This sync move always results in a critical hit due to Brendan (Champion) & Groudon's passive skill Sure Hit | P-Moves & S-Moves Crit. In In the Palms of our Hands!, the recurring Mew was about to use Precipice Blades while Transformed into Groudon, but was distracted before it could execute the move. Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire Animated Trailer Precipice Blades is tied with Headlong Rush for the highest base power of all Ground-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. A Tectonic Rage based on Precipice Blades has the highest base power of all Ground-type moves. Precipice Blades is the only Ground-type Cool move. Despite the move's name, as well as its description stating the move is done by using blades of land to attack, Precipice Blades is not considered a slicing move and, as such, does not have its power boosted by Sharpness.

Title: Dragon Ascent (move)

Dragon Ascent (Japanese: ガリョウテンセイ Dragon Ascension) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature move of Rayquaza. Dragon Ascent inflicts damage and then lowers the user's Defense stat and Special Defense stat by one stage each. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Dragon Ascent could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. The player can Mega Evolve any Rayquaza that knows Dragon Ascent. Rayquaza cannot Mega Evolve if it is holding a Z-Crystal or knows the move only through Mimic. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, no Rayquaza can Mega Evolve until the Rayquaza in the Delta Episode has been caught. Dragon Ascent does not exist in the game data of Pokémon X and Y. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Dragon Ascent cannot be traded from Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire to Pokémon X and Y, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon X and Y. The Pokémon must forget the move in order to Some Move Tutors will teach Dragon Ascent to a Rayquaza. The Move Tutors are: SMUSUM: a man in a red shirt in the Pokémon Center in Seafolk Village. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, while Rayquaza does not know Dragon Ascent when the player battles it at Sky Pillar, Zinnia will automatically teach it Dragon Ascent (replacing Fly) immediately after the player captures it. Dragon Ascent damages enemies in a 5×5 square in front of the user. It lowers the user's Defense and Sp. Defense by one stage. Rayquaza can Mega Evolve if it knows Dragon Ascent and has an Awakening emera or Empowerment Seed. Steven (Anniversary 2021) & Rayquaza's passive skill Downside Up makes Dragon Ascent boost their Defense and Sp. Def by one stat rank after use, instead of lowering them. Zinnia & Rayquaza's power boost is only accessible through the villain event Team Aqua's Stormy Seas. In Pokémon GO, Dragon Ascent is a Charged Attack that was made available on August 27, 2023. It is required to Mega Evolve Rayquaza. The Japanese name of this move literally means "to paint a dragon and dot its eyes" and serves as a metaphor for the finishing touch in a piece of work that gives it "the spark of life". The idiom originated from a legend where Zhang Sengyou, a Chinese painter, completes the dragons on a mural by dotting their eyes and thus literally bringing them to life; they spring out of the temple wall and fly off. The completed dragons immediately ascended to the heavens after the work was done. Dragon Ascent is the only move with the word "dragon" in its English name that is not Dragon-type. Because Zinnia teaches Dragon Ascent to the Rayquaza caught at Sky Pillar in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire to replace Fly, Dragon Ascent is the only move that can replace an HM move in a game in which the move is available as an HM. When used by a Rayquaza which has Mega Evolved, this move will play an additional animation before the main animation, and the main animation is also changed slightly. When used by a Pokémon other than Mega Rayquaza (including non-Mega-Evolved Rayquaza), Dragon Ascent will play a cyan blue animation instead of the green animation. When used by a Shiny Rayquaza in Pokémon Sword and Shield, the animation still displays a normal Rayquaza.

Title: Hyperspace Fury (move)

Hyperspace Fury (Japanese: いじげんラッシュ Interdimensional Rush) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced during Generation VI, in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. It is the signature move of Hoopa Unbound. Hyperspace Fury inflicts damage, then lowers the user's Defense stat by one stage. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It will also hit the target even if it is protected by Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, King's Shield, Mat Block, or Baneful Bunker, and lifts the effects of those moves for the remainder of the turn; if it hits a target that is protected by Mat Block, it removes Mat Block from the target's side of the field. It also removes the effects of Quick Guard, Wide Guard, and Crafty Shield from the target's side of the field. It hits through a substitute. Hyperspace Fury can only be successfully used by Hoopa as Hoopa Unbound (or a Pokémon that has transformed into Hoopa Unbound). If this move is used by any other Pokémon (including via Assist or Sleep Talk), the move will fail, even during Pokémon Contests. If using the move as a Pokémon other than Hoopa, the battle text "But <Pokémon> can't use the move!" will be displayed; if used by Hoopa Confined, the battle text "But Hoopa can't use it the way it is now!" will be displayed. Starting in Version 3.0.0 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Hyperspace Fury can no longer be copied by Sketch. Hyperspace Fury does not exist in the game data of Pokémon X and Y. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Hyperspace Fury cannot be traded from Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire to Pokémon X and Y, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move, it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon X and Y. In order to be transferred to Pokémon X and Y, the Pokémon must forget Hyperspace Fury. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if Hoopa Unbound knows this move and is changed into Confined form, Hyperspace Fury will be forgotten and replaced with Hyperspace Hole. When Hoopa is Hoopa Unbound, the move replaces Hyperspace Hole. Unlike in the core series games, using the move does not lower the user's Defense stat. The move will already be at maximum power and starts at 13 PP (though the base PP is coded as 5). In Pokémon UNITE, Hyperspace Fury is Hoopa's first move when transformed into its Unbound form. The user unleashes 7 attacks in the designated area with its many arms, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect and leaving them unable to act for 1s. Hyperspace Fury is the last Generation VI move in index number order. Hyperspace Fury has the highest base power of all Dark-type moves and of all moves that cannot miss, excluding Z-Moves and Max Moves. Aura Wheel has higher base power but is Electric-type under normal circumstances. A Black Hole Eclipse based on Hyperspace Fury is tied with Malicious Moonsault for the highest base power of all Dark-type moves. Also, Power Trip is capable of reaching a higher power than Hyperspace Fury and the Black Hole Eclipse based on it, topping at 860 under optimal conditions.

Title: Catastropika (move)

Catastropika (Japanese: ひっさつのピカチュート Certain-kill Pikachoot) is a damage-dealing Electric-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Pikachu and an upgraded version of its signature move, Volt Tackle. Catastropika does damage and has no secondary effect. Pikachu, or a Pokémon transformed into Pikachu, can use Catastropika if it knows Volt Tackle, holds a Pikanium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring. Only regular Pikachu can use Catastropika. Pikachu in a cap cannot use Catastropika, even if it meets the requirements. Along with 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt, Catastropika is the only species-exclusive Z-Move to have a unique pose not shared with other Z-Moves of the same type. Coincidentally, both are exclusive to Pikachu. Catastropika has the highest base power of all Electric-type moves.

Title: Shore Up (move)

Shore Up (Japanese: すなあつめ Sand Gather) is a non-damaging Ground-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Sandygast and Palossand. Shore Up restores the user's current HP based on the weather in the battle. Outside of a sandstorm, it restores ½ total HP; during a sandstorm, it restores ⅔ total HP, rounded down. If powered up by a Groundium Z into Z-Shore Up, all of the user's lowered stats are reset. In Version 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Shore Up could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it is usable and functions as it did in previous generations.

Title: First Impression (move)

First Impression (Japanese: であいがしら Head-on Collision) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Golisopod, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. It is TM142 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. First Impression inflicts damage. It has a priority of +2, and is used before moves of lower priority. First Impression always fails if it is used after the first turn the user is out, or if the move is called by Instruct. First Impression cannot be selected if the Pokémon has used a move after being sent out in battle. However, it can be freely used outside of battle for activities such as breaking Mega Crystals. First Impression otherwise has the same behavior as other priority moves in Z-A such as Extreme Speed or Quick Attack; the user is briefly intangible while dashing to make contact with their target. If First Impression is used to surprise attack a Trainer in a battle zone, it does not count as being used in battle, and thus can be used again with no cooldown after the battle begins. When used as a Plus Move, First Impression always results in a critical hit. In co-op battles, each switch into battle counts as entering battle. Sync moves do not count as moves that would cause First Impression to fail. First Impression has the highest base power of all priority moves. First Impression may be based on the concept of insect fighting, which is an activity that involves putting two bugs, most commonly beetles, in a small, ringed-shaped arena and having them fight. These fights usually start with the bugs colliding headfirst into one another. This could explain the move's Bug type, Japanese name (であいがしら Head-on Collision), priority status, and why it can only be used on the first turn the user is out. Sirfetch'd being able to learn this move may be a reference to jousting.

Title: Baneful Bunker (move)

Baneful Bunker (Japanese: トーチカ Pillbox) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Toxapex. Baneful Bunker protects the user from all effects of moves that target it during the turn it is used, including damage. (This does not include damage at the end of a turn such as from weather or a status condition.) If Baneful Bunker blocks an attack that would make contact with the user, the attacker becomes poisoned (unless they are immune). (Moves that are blocked do not activate other effects that require making contact, like Rocky Helmet or Rough Skin.) If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Baneful Bunker will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is divided by 3. Some moves will do damage through Baneful Bunker. Most damaging Z-Moves and Max Moves will only do 25% of their original damage, except G-Max One Blow and G-Max Rapid Flow which do full damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Baneful Bunker. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Baneful Bunker. Status moves that are unaffected by Baneful Bunker are listed here. Generally, moves that target the user, moves that target the user and all allies, moves that target all Pokémon, and entry hazard moves cannot be blocked by Baneful Bunker. Baneful Bunker is an increased priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn. If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Baneful Bunker, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage.

Title: Spirit Shackle (move)

Spirit Shackle (Japanese: かげぬい Shadow Stitching) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Decidueye. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Sinister Arrow Raid by Decidueye holding Decidium Z. Spirit Shackle inflicts damage and prevents the target from fleeing or switching out as long as the user remains in battle. Wimp Out, Emergency Exit, the Red Card, the Shed Shell, and the Eject Button can bypass this effect. In Pokémon UNITE, Spirit Shackle is Decidueye's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Dartrix and upgrading Leafage into it instead of Razor Leaf. The user charges power before firing a large arrow in the designated direction. Damage dealt increases the longer power is charged (with 6 breakpoints), but movement speed is decreased by 25% while charging. If this move hits after power is charged to the maximum, it can stitch enemies to the ground. The affected enemy has their movement speed decreased by 80% for a short time while in the area, and receives damage upon leaving the area. A maximum of 3 uses can be kept in reserve for this move. At level 11, the move deals 15% more damage to enemies under 50% HP. In Pokémon GO, Spirit Shackle is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 6, 2024. The move's Japanese name, kagenui ("shadow stitching"), refers to a fabled ninja technique that restrains a target's movements by pinning their shadow with a kunai or shuriken.

Title: Darkest Lariat (move)

Darkest Lariat (Japanese: ＤＤラリアット DD Lariat) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation VII. In Generation VII and Generation IX, it is the signature move of Incineroar. It was TR93 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Malicious Moonsault by Incineroar holding Incinium Z. Darkest Lariat inflicts damage, ignoring any changes to the target's Defense and evasion stat stages. It does not ignore changes to stats that do not use stat stages, such as Reflect, Abilities such as Sand Veil, or items such as Eviolite. It also does not ignore changes to the user's Attack or accuracy. Description prior to unknown version past Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Ignores the target's raised stats when attacking with this move. Darkest Lariat is Incineroar's neutral special. When used, Incineroar swings its arms around, damaging those it hits. In Pokémon GO, Darkest Lariat is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 16, 2024. Darkest Lariat is only learned by fully evolved Pokémon. In Generation VIII only, it had the greatest availability of any move to have this distinction, in all other generations, it is tied for the lowest of any move with this distinction with many other moves, being the signature move of Incineroar.

Title: Sparkling Aria (move)

Sparkling Aria (Japanese: うたかたのアリア Bubble Aria) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Primarina. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Oceanic Operetta by Primarina holding Primarium Z. Sparkling Aria inflicts damage to all adjacent Pokémon, including allies. If the target was burned, the burn is healed. Burned Pokémon are not healed of their burns if the move does not affect them. Sparkling Aria is a sound-based move. Sparkling Aria can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Normally, Pokémon with the Ability Shield Dust will not have their burn cured by the move; however, if the move targets multiple Pokémon in a Double Battle or Battle Royal, they will be cured. In Pokémon GO, Sparkling Aria is a Charged Attack that has been available since August 31, 2024. In Evolving Research!, Ida's Primarina was confirmed to know Sparkling Aria through its use of Oceanic Operetta. However, it has never been seen using it. Sparkling Aria is the only sound-based move that is Water-type by default.

Title: Ice Hammer (move)

Ice Hammer (Japanese: アイスハンマー Ice Hammer) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature move of Crabominable. Ice Hammer inflicts damage and lowers the user's Speed by one stage. Hau & Crabominable's passive skill Speed ↓ Flip makes this move raise their Speed by one stat rank instead of lowering it. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the user's Speed. Ice Hammer has the same description text as Hammer Arm. In Generation VII, its animation is similar to that of Hammer Arm, but with a blue arm instead of orange. In Generation IX, it is instead similar to Dragon Hammer and Gigaton Hammer when not used by Tinkaton, only with a blue hammer instead of purple or silver, respectively.

Title: Floral Healing (move)

Floral Healing (Japanese: フラワーヒール Flower Heal) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Comfey. Floral Healing restores up to ½ of the target's maximum HP. If Grassy Terrain is in effect, Floral Healing will restore up to ⅔ of the target's maximum HP. Floral Healing bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It cannot affect a Pokémon behind a substitute. If powered up by a Fairium Z into Z-Floral Healing, all of the user's lowered stats are reset, and the target can be healed regardless of whether or not it is afflicted by Heal Block. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Floral Healing could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in the previous generation. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Floral Healing could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in the previous generation.

Title: High Horsepower (move)

High Horsepower (Japanese: １０まんばりき 100,000 Horsepower) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TR94 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM186 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. High Horsepower deals damage and has no secondary effect. In Pokémon GO, High Horsepower is a Charged Attack that was made available on November 12, 2022. In Pokémon UNITE, High Horsepower is Mamoswine's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 7 as Piloswine and upgrading Tackle into it instead of Earthquake. The user rushes recklessly in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies they hit and shoving them. The user then stomps their feet, dealing damage to enemies in the area of effect, and leaves them unable to act for a short time. This stomping deals increased damage to frozen enemies. At level 13, the reckless rush's speed and the length of time enemies are left unable to act are both increased.

Title: Strength Sap (move)

Strength Sap (Japanese: ちからをすいとる Strength Sap) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Morelull and Shiinotic, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Strength Sap lowers the target's Attack stat by one stage, and restores the user's HP by an amount equal to the target's effective Attack stat before Strength Sap was used (taking any stat stages into account). Strength Sap fails if the target already has -6 Attack stat stages. Strength Sap does not fail if the target has +6 Attack stat stages and Contrary, or otherwise cannot have its Attack stat lowered (such as due to being protected by Mist or having Hyper Cutter), still restoring HP in that case. Strength Sap does not fail if the user of Strength Sap has full HP, still lowering the target's Attack in that case. If the user is holding a Big Root, Strength Sap recovers 30% more HP. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. If powered up by a Grassium Z into Z-Strength Sap, the user's Defense stat rises one stage.

Title: Solar Blade (move)

Solar Blade (Japanese: ソーラーブレード Solar Blade) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Lurantis. Solar Blade charges up sunlight on the first turn and then unleashes the power as an attack on the second. Solar Blade will not need a turn to charge if used during harsh sunlight. It will have its power halved if used during rain, hail, or sandstorm. If a Pokémon holding a Power Herb uses Solar Blade, it will consume the Power Herb to execute Solar Blade in one turn. If there is harsh sunlight, the Power Herb will not be consumed. Solar Blade is the only move with a base power of 125. Solar Blade can be considered as the physical version of Solar Beam for having identical mechanics of being a two-turn attack as well as negating its charging turn under harsh sunlight.

Title: Leafage (move)

Leafage (Japanese: このは Foliage) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VII. Leafage inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. In Pokémon UNITE, Leafage is Decidueye's and Eldegoss's first move. Decidueye starts with the move as Rowlet. The user pelts leaves in the designated direction, dealing damage in a cone to enemies hit (only hits once). For a short time after using this move, the user’s Attack is increased by 10% (this also affects Leafage) and basic attack speed is increased by 25%. Upon evolving from Dartrix at level 7, it is replaced by either Razor Leaf or Spirit Shackle Eldegoss starts with the move as Gossifleur. The user shoots a bundle of leaves that explode on the first enemy hit, damaging and slowing in an area. Upon evolving at level 4, this move is replaced by either Pollen Puff or Leaf Tornado. Leafage is a Fast Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since June 1, 2023. In Pokémon Pokopia, Leafage is a move that Ditto can use after learning it from a Bulbasaur in Withered Wasteland. It allows Ditto to make tall grass grow on dirt and soil. Leafage can be temporarily powered up by consuming salads, allowing Ditto to grow tall grass over a large area, as well as vines on walls, moss on hard surfaces, and duckweed on the surface of water. In The Delivery of Rotom and the Girl, Professor Kukui told his Rowlet to use Leafage, but the move was executed off-panel. In Pokémon Pokopia, Bulbasaur can use Leafage and teach it to Ditto, even though it has never been capable of learning this move.

Title: Spotlight (move)

Spotlight redirects here. For the Accessory in the Generation IV games, see Accessory → Misc. Spotlight (Japanese: スポットライト Spotlight) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VII. Spotlight causes the move's target to become the center of attention, forcing all attacks from the target's foes to target it instead of their intended target. This effect overrides any other forms of redirection, either through moves like Follow Me and Rage Powder, Abilities like Storm Drain and Lightning Rod, or Ally Switch. The effects of Spotlight cannot be passed with Baton Pass. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Spotlight, the user's Special Defense stat rises by 1 stage. Spotlight turns the target into a decoy. Its effect is identical to that of Substitute from games prior to Gates to Infinity. The German name of the move Follow Me is Spotlight, which exists as a loanword from English. This move is named Rampenlicht instead, which is a translation of the same term. Excluding signature moves and Z-Moves, Spotlight is the only move introduced in Generation VII to not be usable in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Toxic Thread (move)

Toxic Thread (Japanese: どくのいと Toxic Thread) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Spinarak and Ariados. Toxic Thread poisons the target and lowers its Speed stat by one stage. Both effects are independent from each other; the target's Speed is still lowered even if it cannot be poisoned (such as if it is a Steel-type or it already has a status condition), and the target is still poisoned even if its Speed cannot be lowered (due to Clear Body or if the stat is already at -6 stages). If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Toxic Thread, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage. Toxic Thread poisons the enemy and decreases their Travel Speed by one stage. Excluding Z-Moves, Toxic Thread is the only Poison-type move to not be usable in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Laser Focus (move)

Laser Focus (Japanese: とぎすます Hone) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VII. Laser Focus causes the user's move to result in a critical hit until the end of the next turn, unless that move's target has Battle Armor, Shell Armor, or is under the effect of Lucky Chant. The effect of Laser Focus can be copied by Psych Up or Transform. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Laser Focus, the user's Attack stat rises by one stage. The user gains the Laser Focus status condition for one turn, making its next move a critical hit. In Pokémon UNITE, Laser Focus is Duraludon's first move. The move reduces damage received by 20% for .5s. Afterward, the user's basic attacks deal additional damage to enemies hit. This buff expires after 8s or after 3 basic attacks. After reaching level 5, this move is replaced by either Flash Cannon or Dragon Pulse.

Title: Gear Up (move)

Gear Up (Japanese: アシストギア Assist Gear) is a non-damaging Steel-type move introduced in Generation VII. Gear Up raises the Attack and Special Attack stats of allied Pokémon (including the user) with the Ability Plus or Minus by one stage each. If powered up by a Steelium Z into Z-Gear Up, the user's Special Attack stat rises one stage.

Title: Throat Chop (move)

Throat Chop (Japanese: じごくづき Hell Thrust) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TR95 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM221 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Throat Chop inflicts damage and prevents the target from using sound-based moves for two turns; like Psychic Noise, consecutive uses of Throat Chop will deal damage, but will not refresh the duration of the debuff. If the user of Throat Chop is faster than a target that was about to use a sound-based move, then the target will be unable to use that move, akin to the interaction of attempting to use a non-attacking move against a faster Taunt user. If the target was causing an uproar, it ends early. When the effect of Throat Chop for a Pokémon begins or ends, it does not display a battle message. If the only moves that would be usable by an affected Pokémon are sound-based moves, or it was locked into using a sound-based move by a Choice item or Encore, it will use Struggle. Throat Chop deals damage and inflicts the Throat Chop status condition on the target. This status prevents the afflicted Pokémon from using sound-based moves. The Japanese name of this move, じごくづき Jigokuzuki (Hell Thrust), refers to a technique developed by the professional wrestler Abdullah the Butcher.

Title: Pollen Puff (move)

Pollen Puff (Japanese: かふんだんご Pollen Ball) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Ribombee. It was TR96 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM131 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Pollen Puff's effect varies depending on the target. If it targets an opponent, it deals damage. If it targets an ally, it restores up to 50% of the target's maximum HP. Pokémon with Bulletproof are immune to both effects of Pollen Puff. Telepathy blocks the healing effect of Pollen Puff if used by an ally. Pokémon affected by Heal Block cannot target allies with Pollen Puff (but they can target an opponent); if a Pokémon would use Pollen Puff targeting an ally, but is affected by Heal Block when it would use Pollen Puff, it cannot use the move. If a Pokémon is affected by Heal Block, it cannot be healed by other Pokémon's Pollen Puff. In Pokémon UNITE, Pollen Puff is Eldegoss's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Gossifleur at level 4 and upgrading Leafage into it instead of Leaf Tornado. The user throws a puff of pollen, which attaches to any Pokémon that touches it. After a delay the puff will explode, damaging enemies and healing allies around it. At level 11, if attached to an enemy, the puff will deal damage over time. If attached to an ally, it will reduce the damage they receive by 20% for 2s.

Title: Anchor Shot (move)

Anchor Shot (Japanese: アンカーショット Anchor Shot) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Dhelmise. Anchor Shot inflicts damage and prevents foes from fleeing or switching out as long as the user remains in battle. Wimp Out, Emergency Exit, the Red Card, the Shed Shell, and the Eject Button can bypass this effect.

Title: Psychic Terrain (move)

Psychic Terrain (Japanese: サイコフィールド Psycho Field) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TM91 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM138 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Psychic Terrain creates terrain that envelops the field and replaces the background environment and any other terrain that is already in effect. The terrain fades after five turns. This terrain has the following effects on Pokémon that are on the ground and not in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. It boosts the power of Psychic-type moves used by affected Pokémon by 50% (regardless of whether the target of the move is affected by Psychic Terrain). Affected Pokémon become immune to opponents' moves with increased priority (including moves boosted by Prankster, Gale Wings, or Triage). Moves that target all Pokémon (except Perish Song, Flower Shield, and Rototiller) cannot be blocked by Psychic Terrain even if they become priority moves. Secret Power uses the animation of Confusion and may lower its target's Speed. Camouflage causes the user to become Psychic-type. When a Pokémon with the Ability Psychic Surge enters battle, Psychic Terrain is automatically created. Upon successfully doing damage, Genesis Supernova creates Psychic Terrain on the field. If a Pokémon is holding a Psychic Seed while the field is Psychic Terrain, it consumes the Psychic Seed and its Special Defense is increased by one stage (even if it is not otherwise affected by the terrain). If a Terrain Extender is held when Psychic Terrain is used, the terrain will last 8 turns instead of 5. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Psychic Terrain, the user's Special Attack stat rises by one stage. Boosts the power of Psychic-type moves used by affected Pokémon by 30% instead of the previous 50%. Boosts the power of Expanding Force by 1.5×, and if the setting is a Double Battle, the move's target will be changed to hit both opposing Pokémon. Changes Terrain Pulse's type to Psychic and doubles its base power from 50 to 100. Changes a Pokémon's type to Psychic if it has the Ability Mimicry. Psychic Terrain is automatically created when Max Mindstorm is used. Defog, G-Max Wind Rage, Steel Roller and Ice Spinner remove Psychic Terrain and any other terrain upon being used. Steel Roller also fails if Psychic Terrain or other terrains are absent.

Title: Lunge (move)

Lunge (Japanese: とびかかる Lunge) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is TM185 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Lunge inflicts damage and lowers the target's Attack stat by one stage. Lunge is a Charged Attack in Pokémon GO that has been available since September 14, 2020. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Attack.

Title: Fire Lash (move)

Fire Lash (Japanese: ほのおのムチ Flame Lash) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Heatmor. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Salazzle. Fire Lash inflicts damage and lowers the target's Defense stat by one stage. Despite being Heatmor's former signature move, it was introduced in Generation VII, in which Heatmor could not be obtained except through the use of Pokémon Bank.

Title: Power Trip (move)

Power Trip (Japanese: つけあがる Be Audacious) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Krookodile, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Power Trip deals damage. It normally has a base power of 20, but gains 20 power for every increased stat stage the user has. Stats decreased below normal do not affect this move's base power. Its maximum possible base power is 860. This occurs when all seven of the user's stats (Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed, evasion, and accuracy) have been raised the maximum six stages. Description prior to Version 2.20.0: The more the user's stats are raised, the greater the power of this move. This move has a power multiplier that starts at ×1; and for each increase in the user's stats (including critical-hit rate), this multiplier increases by one. This multiplier reaches its maximum of ×12 if the user has stats raised by eleven or more ranks total.

Title: Burn Up (move)

Burn Up (Japanese: もえつきる Burn Out) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation VII. If used by a Fire-type Pokémon, Burn Up will thaw out the user if it is frozen, and then inflict damage to the target and cause the user to lose its Fire type. Burn Up fails if the user is not Fire-type, making the move always fail after the first use until the Pokémon regains its Fire type (either by switching out, or other type changing effects such as through Protean or Reflect Type); Burn Up cannot thaw the user if the move would fail (due to the user not being Fire-type). If the user is a pure Fire-type Pokémon, it will become typeless. Like all type changing effects, the Pokémon's type reverts to its default types if it is switched out. A Pokémon with Protean or Libero cannot successfully use Burn Up unless it already is Fire-type; otherwise, Burn Up will fail and Protean or Libero will not activate. A Pokémon that has Terastallized (into either Fire or Stellar Tera type) will not lose its Fire type. Therefore, a Terastallized Burn Up can be used multiple times in a row without needing to switch out. As no available Pokémon can learn Burn Up, it can only be used through Metronome. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, if the player views the summary of a Pokémon that is currently typeless through the use of Burn Up, the game will crash.

Title: Speed Swap (move)

Speed Swap (Japanese: スピードスワップ Speed Swap) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TM62 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Rabsca. Speed Swap exchanges the Speed stats of the user and the target. This move does not swap in-battle speed modifiers, such as Abilities and stat stages. Speed Swap bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Speed Swap, the user's Speed stat is raised by one stage.

Title: Smart Strike (move)

Smart Strike (Japanese: スマートホーン Smart Horn) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation VII. TM67 in Pokémon Sun and Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Smart Strike inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Generation VII, Togetic could learn Smart Strike by TM, but its Evolution Togekiss couldn't. This was fixed in Generation VIII.

Title: Purify (move)

Purify redirects here. For the method of changing a Shadow Pokémon back into a normal Pokémon, see Purification. Purify (Japanese: じょうか Purify) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Pyukumuku. If the target has a non-volatile status condition, Purify cures it and then restores the user's HP by up to 50% of its own maximum HP. It has no effect if the target does not have a non-volatile status condition (even if it has the Ability Comatose). If powered up by a Poisonium Z into Z-Purify, the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed are raised by one stage each.

Title: Revelation Dance (move)

Revelation Dance (Japanese: めざめるダンス Awakening Dance) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Oricorio. Revelation Dance inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. The type of Revelation Dance always matches the user's primary type. If a Pokémon has lost its primary Fire type due to Burn Up or its primary Electric type due to Double Shock, Revelation Dance's type will match its secondary type if it has any, or else have no type (if neither Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat gave it a type), in which case Revelation Dance will not receive STAB. If a Pokémon has lost its primary Flying type due to having used Roost earlier this turn and uses Revelation Dance due to Dancer, Revelation Dance's type will match its current type: its secondary type if it has any, or else be Normal-type (regardless of type additions by Forest's Curse or Trick-or-Treat). Revelation Dance is unaffected by Normalize, Pixilate, Refrigerate, Aerilate, and Galvanize. However, it is affected by Ion Deluge (if the move would be Normal-type) and Electrify. Typeless Revelation Dance does not activate Color Change and is blocked by Wonder Guard. Conversion 2 will fail if the last move used by the target was typeless Revelation Dance. If the user has Protean, it will lose its secondary type (if it has one) when using Revelation Dance. Regardless of the user's types, Revelation Dance is always treated as Normal-type for Z-Move mechanics, and can be upgraded to Breakneck Blitz by a Normalium Z. If the user is Terastallized, Revelation Dance becomes the user's Tera Type, unless its Tera Type is Stellar. Revelation Dance and Judgment have the only battle mechanics affected by the order of a Pokémon's types (not counting a glitch affecting Present in Gold and Silver).

Title: Core Enforcer (move)

Core Enforcer (Japanese: コアパニッシャー Core Punisher) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the signature moves of Zygarde. It can be upgraded to the special move Nihil Light by Zygarde Complete Forme when Mega Evolved. Core Enforcer deals damage. If the target has already used a move or had a Bag item used on it by its Trainer in the same turn, Core Enforcer also suppresses the target's Ability while it remains in battle. The target's Ability will not be suppressed if Core Enforcer misses or if the target is immune to or protected from the move. It cannot suppress Multitype, Stance Change, Schooling, Comatose, Shields Down, Disguise, RKS System, Battle Bond, Power Construct, or As One. If Zygarde knows Core Enforcer when it Mega Evolves, Core Enforcer will become Nihil Light until Zygarde returns to its Complete Forme. When used by any Pokémon other than Complete Forme Zygarde, Core Enforcer fires a damaging beam in the direction of the target. When used by Complete Forme Zygarde, Core Enforcer instead creates a capital Z on the ground as seen in other games, damaging all targets currently on the Z after a delay. Sygna Suit Serena & Zygarde have the passive skill Piercing Gaze when Zygarde is in its Complete Forme, which makes their use of this move never miss. Core Enforcer was the first Generation VII move seen in the animated series. It was used by two Zygarde Cores nicknamed Squishy and Z2 in Forming a More Perfect Union!, prior to the release of Pokémon Sun and Moon.

Title: Trop Kick (move)

Trop Kick (Japanese: トロピカルキック Tropical Kick) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Tsareena. Trop Kick deals damage and lowers the target's Attack by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Attack. In Pokémon UNITE, Trop Kick is Tsareena's second move. It is obtained by evolving form Steenee at level 6 upgrading Rapid Spin into it instead of Grassy Glide. The user performs a flying kick in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies hit and decreasing their Attack by 25% for a short time. Enemies that make contact with the flying kick's wake receive damage and have their movement speed decreased for a short time. If Queenly Majesty is active, this move grants the user a shield. At level 12, move's damage is increased. This move's name may be a pun on the phrase "drop kick," an attack that involves the user jumping and kicking the opponent with both feet as they fall.

Title: Instruct (move)

Instruct (Japanese: さいはい Command) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Oranguru. Instruct causes the target to immediately repeat its most recent move, ignoring those called indirectly via Dancer or Magic Bounce. PP will be deducted from moves used in this manner, and damage dealt by moves used in this manner is considered for the purpose of Counter, Mirror Coat, and Metal Burst (even if the target did not select a move this turn). If the target hasn't yet made a move this turn (but has on a previous turn) when instructed to use its most recent move, it will repeat its move from the previous turn, then later on when its natural turn order comes up, it can use its newly selected move normally. Instruct will fail if the target has not made any move; the target is in the middle of Bide, Focus Punch, Beak Blast, Shell Trap, or a consecutively executed move (excluding Raging Fury as of Generation IX); the target has been picked up by Sky Drop (even if one of the Pokémon has No Guard); the instructed move's PP is depleted; the target no longer knows the move that would be instructed (e.g. it has leveled up and replaced that move since it used it); or the target is a Dynamax Pokémon or the boss of a Tera Raid Battle. It will also fail if the target's most recent move is Instruct itself, Bide, Focus Punch, Beak Blast, Shell Trap, Sketch, Transform, Mimic, King's Shield, Struggle, a move that requires recharging (such as Hyper Beam), a move with a charging turn (such as Dig or Skull Bash), a move that calls another move (such as Metronome), a Z-Move, or a Max Move. Using an instructed move is a separate action, and effects bound to a Pokémon's actions are applied individually: for example, a Pokémon may hit itself in confusion or loaf around for the first of its actions, but execute a move normally for its second. For action-bound status conditions that can be recovered from, such as sleep or confusion, using an instructed move both gives a chance of recovery, and counts as a turn towards guaranteed recovery if applicable. All actions that are not bound to a Pokémon's actions still apply once for the entire turn: for example, if a Pokémon has flinched, this applies to all of its actions for the remainder of the turn. A Pokémon can successfully be instructed to repeat a move when under the effect of Torment or to use a status move while holding an Assault Vest. When instructed to use Fake Out, Mat Block, or First Impression, the target will attempt to use the move and PP will be deducted from it, but the move will fail. When instructed to use a move that would be prevented by Disable, Heal Block, Gravity, Throat Chop, Taunt, or Imprison, the target will attempt to use it, but the move will fail without PP being deducted. The instructed move will target the same Pokémon slot as the previously used move, as long as a Pokémon is present in that slot. Instructed moves retain their original priority, regardless of the priority of Instruct - for example, Quick Attack still fails in Psychic Terrain when Instruct is used at 0 priority to call it. Similarly, non-priority moves succeed when instructed in Psychic Terrain, even if the Instruct user has Prankster. Prankster-instructed non-priority status moves used on a Dark-type-type Pokémon will also succeed, as will Prankster-instructed non-priority moves used on a Pokémon protected by Armor Tail or Queenly Majesty. If powered up by a Psychium Z into Z-Instruct, the user's Special Attack rises one stage.

Title: Beak Blast (move)

Beak Blast (Japanese: くちばしキャノン Beak Cannon) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Toucannon. Beak Blast is a decreased priority move. The user charges up at the beginning of the turn and executes Beak Blast at -3 priority. All who make contact with the user during the charging phase are burned. Its charging message is displayed before any other moves. The charging phase occurs whether or not the user's status would prevent it from executing Beak Blast. For example, if the user is confused, the confusion check is performed before the strike, not the initial charge. Pokémon with Bulletproof are immune to Beak Blast, but are not immune to the burn. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Beak Blast could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Pokémon GO, Beak Blast is a Charged Attack that has been available since November 30, 2025. The user gets ready to counterattack. Using this move again will cause the user to attack. No other actions can be taken while ready to counterattack. The user will attack if attacked with a move while it is ready to counterattack. Leaves opponents burned when they use physical moves to attack the user while it is ready to counterattack. Prior to Version 2.10.0 (released on June 28, 2021): The user takes up a counterattacking posture. Using this move again will cause the user to attack, then leave this posture. No other actions can be taken while in this posture. The user will attack if hit by an attack move while it is in this counterattacking posture, then the user leaves this posture. If the move was a physical attack move, leaves the opponent that used it burned. The user takes up a counterattacking posture. Using this move again will cause the user to leave this posture, then attack. No other actions can be taken while in this posture. The user will leave this posture if hit by an attack move while it is in this counterattacking posture, then attacks. If the move was a physical attack move, leaves the opponent that used it burned. Beak Blast is the only Flying-type move that is able to burn a target. This move mimics a toucan's ability to regulate its body heat by using its beak as a heat sink.

Title: Clanging Scales (move)

Clanging Scales (Japanese: スケイルノイズ Scale Noise) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the signature moves of Kommo-o. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Clangorous Soulblaze by Kommo-o holding Kommonium Z in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. Clanging Scales inflicts damage and reduces the user's Defense by one stage. Clanging Scales is a sound-based move. Clanging Scales can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the user's Defense. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): "Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents." In Pokémon GO, Clanging Scales is a Charged Attack that has been available since June 21, 2025. In All Out, All of the Time!, Phil's Kommo-o was confirmed to know Clanging Scales through its use of Clangorous Soulblaze. However, it has never been seen using it.

Title: Dragon Hammer (move)

Dragon Hammer (Japanese: ドラゴンハンマー Dragon Hammer) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VII. In Generation VII, it was the signature move of Alolan Exeggutor, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Dragon Hammer deals damage and has no secondary effect. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Dragon Hammer could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it is selectable and functions as it did in the previous generation. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Dragon Hammer could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is selectable and functions as it did in the previous generation. In Generation IX, its animation is similar to Ice Hammer and Gigaton Hammer when not used by Tinkaton, but with a rose-colored hammer instead of blue or silver, respectively.

Title: Brutal Swing (move)

Brutal Swing (Japanese: ぶんまわす Brutal Swing) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TM59 in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon, and was TM97 in Pokémon Sword and Shield. Brutal Swing does damage to all adjacent Pokémon, including allies. In Pokémon GO, Brutal Swing is a Charged Attack that was made available on June 25, 2022. Brutal Swing is the only contact move that can hit all adjacent Pokémon at once.

Title: Aurora Veil (move)

Aurora Veil (Japanese: オーロラベール Aurora Veil) is a non-damaging Ice-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TM70 in Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon. Aurora Veil reduces the damage done to the user by physical and special moves for five turns by half; in battles beside Single Battles, Aurora Veil protects the user and all allies, but only reduces damage by (roughly) a third rather than half (specifically, with a multiplier of 2732/4096). It does not reduce damage done by self-inflicted confusion damage, critical hits, or moves that deal direct damage. Aurora Veil can only be used during hail or snow, but the effect remains even after hail or snow ends; Cloud Nine and Air Lock will cause Aurora Veil to fail even if it is hailing or snowing. While it can be active at the same time as Reflect and Light Screen, the damage reduction effects do not stack. Aurora Veil is removed from a Pokémon's side of the field if it is hit by Brick Break, Defog, Psychic Fangs, or Raging Bull, or if a Pokémon with Screen Cleaner is sent out. Pokémon with the Ability Infiltrator ignore the effects of Aurora Veil when attacking. If a Light Clay is held when Aurora Veil is used, it will extend the duration of Aurora Veil from 5 to 8 turns. If powered up by an Icium Z into Z-Aurora Veil, the user's Speed stat rises by one stage. Aurora Veil targets the user and teammates in the same room and gives them the Aurora Veil status condition. This reduces damage from all moves and the status lasts for 21 turns. Aurora Veil will fail if the weather is not Hail. In Pokémon UNITE, Aurora Veil is Alolan Ninetales's second move. It is obtained by reaching level 6 and upgrading Icy Wind into it instead of Blizzard. The user dashes a short distance and creates an aurora centered on its position for 5s, reducing damage received by Ninetales and allies within the aurora by 30%, and healing Ninetales with each boosted attack. While Ninetales is inside the aurora, movement speed is increased by 20% and all basic attacks are boosted. At level 13, damage reduction is increased by 5%, and cooldown is reduced by 2s. In Rescue Team DX, Aurora Veil's TM description erroneously refers to it as a "damage-dealing physical move", rather than a status move.

Title: Sinister Arrow Raid (move)

Sinister Arrow Raid (Japanese: シャドーアローズストライク Shadow Arrows Strike) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Alolan Decidueye and an upgraded version of its signature move, Spirit Shackle. Sinister Arrow Raid inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Sinister Arrow Raid cannot be selected in a battle. Decidueye, or a Pokémon transformed into Decidueye, can use Sinister Arrow Raid if it knows Spirit Shackle, holds a Decidium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring.

Title: Malicious Moonsault (move)

Malicious Moonsault (Japanese: ハイパーダーククラッシャー Hyper Dark Crusher) is a damage-dealing Dark-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Incineroar and an upgraded version of its former signature move, Darkest Lariat. Malicious Moonsault inflicts damage. If the target has used Minimize, Malicious Moonsault deals double its regular damage. Malicious Moonsault cannot be selected in a battle. Incineroar, or a Pokémon transformed into Incineroar, can use Malicious Moonsault if it knows Darkest Lariat, holds an Incinium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring. Max Malicious Moonsault, described as a faster and fiercer version of this move, is featured as Incineroar's Final Smash. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (from March 15, 2022): Power of sync move increases by 50%. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): The more the user's Speed has been raised, the greater the power of this move. Despite its English name, Malicious Moonsault actually has Incineroar doing a 450° splash rather than a moonsault.

Title: Oceanic Operetta (move)

Oceanic Operetta (Japanese: わだつみのシンフォニア Sea God's Symphonia) is a damage-dealing Water-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Primarina and an upgraded version of its signature move, Sparkling Aria. Oceanic Operetta inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. Primarina, or a Pokémon transformed into Primarina, can use Oceanic Operetta if it knows Sparkling Aria, holds a Primarium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring. During the animation of Oceanic Operetta, Primarina's body is reversed symmetrically, with its tail on the right side of its body instead of its left. This change is not apparent for any other Pokémon or Z-Move. Despite its name and the fact that it is an upgraded version of Sparkling Aria, Oceanic Operetta is not a sound-based move. This Z-Move is a reference to Spirit Bomb, a technique from the Dragon Ball Series.

Title: Stoked Sparksurfer (move)

Stoked Sparksurfer (Japanese: ライトニングサーフライド Lightning Surf Ride) is a damage-dealing Electric-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Alolan Raichu and an upgraded version of its Thunderbolt. Stoked Sparksurfer inflicts damage and paralyzes the target. Stoked Sparksurfer cannot be selected in a battle. Alolan Raichu, or a Pokémon transformed into Alolan Raichu, can use Stoked Sparksurfer if it knows Thunderbolt, holds an Aloraichium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring. Stoked Sparksurfer is the only damaging Z-Move that inflicts a non-volatile status condition. Stoked Sparksurfer is the only fixed-power move with a power of 175. Stoked Sparksurfer has the exact same power as a Gigavolt Havoc based on Thunderbolt, which is required to use this move. However, it is differentiated by the fact that it paralyzes the target in addition to dealing damage.

Title: Pulverizing Pancake (move)

Pulverizing Pancake (Japanese: ほんきをだすこうげき Go All Out Attack) is a damage-dealing Normal-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Snorlax and an upgraded version of its Giga Impact. Pulverizing Pancake does damage and has no secondary effect. Pulverizing Pancake cannot be selected in a battle. Snorlax, or a Pokémon transformed into Snorlax, can use Pulverizing Pancake if it knows Giga Impact, holds a Snorlium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring.

Title: Extreme Evoboost (move)

Extreme Evoboost (Japanese: ナインエボルブースト Nine Evol Boost) is a non-damaging Normal-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Eevee and an upgraded version of its Last Resort. Extreme Evoboost increases the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed stats by two stages each. Extreme Evoboost will be unable to increase a stat that is already at +6; if all stats are at +6, Extreme Evoboost can still be executed, but will be unable to increase any stat. Extreme Evoboost is a Z-Move rather than a Z-Power Effect added on to an existing status move, and therefore interacts with move-modifying effects such as Simple and Contrary normally. Eevee, or a Pokémon transformed into Eevee, can use Extreme Evoboost if it knows Last Resort, holds an Eevium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Charges the user's move gauge by its current move level. Sharply raises the Attack, Defense, Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, Speed, and accuracy of all allied sync pairs. Extreme Evoboost is the only Pokémon-exclusive Z-Move that is a status move. It is also the only Z-Move whose category differs from its base move's category.

Title: Genesis Supernova (move)

Genesis Supernova (Japanese: オリジンズスーパーノヴァ Origins Supernova) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type Z-Move introduced in Generation VII. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Mew and an upgraded version of its Psychic. Genesis Supernova deals damage and causes the battlefield to become Psychic Terrain for five turns. Mew, or a Pokémon transformed into Mew, can use Genesis Supernova if it knows Psychic, holds Mewnium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Ring or Z-Power Ring. Mew cannot use Genesis Supernova if it is transformed into a Pokémon other than Mew. Genesis Supernova is the only Z-Move that sets terrain of any kind.

Title: Shell Trap (move)

Shell Trap (Japanese: トラップシェル Trap Shell) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Turtonator. Shell Trap is a decreased priority move. The user sets up a trap at the beginning of the turn, then if it gets hit by an opponent's physical move within the same turn, it will use Shell Trap immediately after that move. Otherwise, when the user's scheduled turn happens at -3 priority, Shell Trap will fail at that time. Encore will fail if the target has an active Shell Trap in waiting. Shell Trap will not be triggered from the Pokémon being hit by an ally's move, having its substitute take a hit, being hit by a move that's receiving a bonus from Sheer Force, being hit after its own turn has already passed (such as by Dragon Tail or another move with priority lower than -3), or being hit by a move that causes it to faint. Due to a glitch, if a Pokémon's use of Shell Trap is preempted by Encore to lock it into another move instead, and the Pokémon is then hit by a physical attack on any turn before Encore ends, the Pokémon's next use of Shell Trap will skip the step of setting a trap, and the move will go off successfully at its normal priority regardless of whether it was hit in the current turn. If the user is affected by Powder and is then hit by an opponent's physical move, it will take damage instead.

Title: Fleur Cannon (move)

Fleur Cannon (Japanese: フルールカノン Fleur Cannon) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Magearna. Fleur Cannon deals damage and lowers the user's Special Attack by two stages. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Fleur Cannon could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it can be selected and functions as it did in the previous generation. Due to a bug, Original Color Magearna's unique animation for Fleur Cannon was not used in Versions 1.2.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield. This was fixed in Version 1.3.0. Sygna Suit Gladion & Magearna's passive skill Just Give It Up Already prevents this move from lowering their Sp. Atk after use.

Title: Psychic Fangs (move)

Psychic Fangs (Japanese: サイコファング Psycho Fang) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Bruxish, but other Pokémon could still inherit it via breeding. Psychic Fangs removes Light Screen, Reflect, and Aurora Veil from the target's side of the field, then inflicts damage. It will not remove Light Screen, Reflect, or Aurora Veil if Psychic Fangs misses or the target is immune to or protected from Psychic Fangs. In Pokémon GO, Psychic Fangs is a Charged Attack that was made available on November 21, 2021.

Title: Stomping Tantrum (move)

Stomping Tantrum (Japanese: じだんだ Stomping Tantrum) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced in Generation VII. It was TM98 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM084 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Stomping Tantrum is a damage-dealing move. If, on the previous turn, the user's last move missed, failed to affect each of its targets, or was prevented from being used due to an effect such as paralysis, Stomping Tantrum's power is doubled from 75 to 150. If the user was recharging, grabbed by Sky Drop, or any target of the user's last move blocked it with a protection move such as Protect on the previous turn, Stomping Tantrum's base power is not doubled. Stomping Tantrum deals damage. Its damage is increased if the move the user last used was unsuccessful. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Its power is doubled if the user's previous move failed. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (from April 27, 2022): This move's power is doubled when the user's previous move failed.

Title: Shadow Bone (move)

Shadow Bone (Japanese: シャドーボーン Shadow Bone) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the signature moves of Alolan Marowak. Shadow Bone does damage and has a 20% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. In Versions 1.0 to 1.1.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Shadow Bone could not be selected in a battle, as no Pokémon available in the game could learn it. Starting with Version 1.2.0, it is usable and functions as it did in the previous generation. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of lowering the target's Defense.

Title: Accelerock (move)

Accelerock (Japanese: アクセルロック Accelerock) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Midday Form and Dusk Form Lycanroc. Accelerock inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority.

Title: Liquidation (move)

Liquidation (Japanese: アクアブレイク Aqua Break) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation VII. Liquidation does damage and has a 20% chance of lowering the target's Defense stat by one stage. Liquidation deals damage, and may lower the target's Defense by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a small chance of lowering the target's Defense. In Pokémon GO, Liquidation is a Charged Attack that has been available since June 1, 2023.

Title: Prismatic Laser (move)

Prismatic Laser (Japanese: プリズムレーザー Prism Laser) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is one of the signature moves of Necrozma. Prismatic Laser inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. The user does not have to recharge if this attack misses, or if the target is immune to or protected from the attack. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Prismatic Laser could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Prismatic Laser has the highest base power of all Psychic-type moves, excluding Z-Moves. A Shattered Psyche based on Prismatic Laser or Psycho Boost has the highest base power of all Psychic-type moves. It is also the only move that requires recharging to have 10 PP.

Title: Spectral Thief (move)

Spectral Thief (Japanese: シャドースチール Shadow Steal) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Marshadow. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Soul-Stealing 7-Star Strike by Marshadow holding Marshadium Z. Spectral Thief deals damage. If successful, it also steals the target's positive stat stages (if any) immediately before dealing damage. Spectral Thief bypasses substitutes, and can successfully steal stat boosts from the boss of a Max Raid Battle even if it currently has a shield up. If the target has an Ability such as Clear Body, White Smoke, or Hyper Cutter that normally prevents some or all of its stats from being lowered, Spectral Thief can still steal boosts in those stats. Spectral Thief will steal all positive stat stages; even if the sum of the user's existing stat stages and the target's stat stages exceeds +6 in a stat, as long as the target's stat stages are positive, they will be reduced to 0. If the user has the Ability Simple, then the stolen stat stages will be doubled; if the user has the Ability Contrary, then the stat boosts will become stat drops when stolen. In I Choose You!, Marshadow was confirmed to know Spectral Thief through its use of Soul-Stealing 7-Star Strike. However, it has never been seen using it. If Battle Effects are turned off, Spectral Thief will still display one if it steals any stat boosts.

Title: Sunsteel Strike (move)

Sunsteel Strike (Japanese: メテオドライブ Meteor Drive) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Solgaleo and Dusk Mane Necrozma. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, it can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Searing Sunraze Smash by Solgaleo or Dusk Mane Necrozma holding Solganium Z. Sunsteel Strike inflicts damage, ignoring all ignorable Abilities during the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies—such as Multiscale and Friend Guard.) However, it does not ignore Abilities if it is called by another move rather than directly used. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Sunsteel Strike could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Pokémon GO, Sunsteel Strike is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 30, 2024. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle, by using Necrozma Candy and Stardust, temporarily allows any Pokémon that evolve during daylight to evolve, as well as Dusk Form Rockruff. It can't be used simultaneously with an Incense, Mystery Box, or Coin Bag. It can also summon certain Pokémon. It costs three Necrozma Candy and 3,000 Stardust for 10 minutes. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Ignores passive skills that would reduce the damage of this attack. Ignores passive skills that would protect the target against a critical hit. Opponents cannot endure this attack.

Title: Moongeist Beam (move)

Moongeist Beam (Japanese: シャドーレイ Shadow Ray) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation VII. It is the signature move of Lunala and Dawn Wings Necrozma. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, it can be upgraded to the exclusive Z-Move Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom by Lunala or Dawn Wings Necrozma holding Lunalium Z. Moongeist Beam inflicts damage, ignoring all ignorable Abilities during the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies—such as Multiscale and Friend Guard.) However, it does not ignore Abilities if it is called by another move rather than directly used. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Moongeist Beam could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. In Pokémon GO, Moongeist Beam is a Charged Attack that has been available since May 30, 2024. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle, by using Necrozma candy and Stardust, temporarily allows any Pokémon that evolve at night to evolve, including Dusk Rockruff and Ursaring without a full moon. It can also summon certain Pokémon. It can't be used simultaneously as an Incense, Mystery Box or Coin Bag. It costs 3 Necrozma candy and 3,000 Stardust for 10 minutes.

Title: Tearful Look (move)

Tearful Look (Japanese: なみだめ Teary Eyes) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VII. Tearful Look lowers the target's Attack and Special Attack stats by one stage each. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the opponent is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Tearful Look will hit the target even if it has used Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, or Baneful Bunker, but will be blocked by Crafty Shield. If powered up by a Normalium Z into Z-Tearful Look, the user's Defense stat rises by one stage. Tearful Look lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk by one stage each. The stock image used in the battle animation of Tearful Look appears to be based on Espurr's eyes, which can't itself learn the move. This trait is shared with Baby-Doll EyesVII+ and Mean LookVII+.

Title: Zing Zap (move)

Zing Zap (Japanese: びりびりちくちく Shocking and Prickly) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation VII. Prior to Generation VIII, it was the signature move of Togedemaru. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Pincurchin. Zing Zap inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of making the target flinch. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a moderate chance of making the target flinch.

Title: Mind Blown (move)

Mind Blown (Japanese: ビックリヘッド Surprised Head) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the signature move of Blacephalon. Mind Blown inflicts damage, and the user takes damage equal to half of its maximum HP rounded up (unless it has Magic Guard). Mind Blown cannot be used when a Pokémon with the Ability Damp is on the field. The user of Mind Blown will take damage even if the target is protected from it, if it hits a substitute, if the move misses, or if the target has Flash Fire. If Mind Blown fails due to there being no targets (i.e. if all Pokémon in range fainted before the move was used), the user does not take damage. Rock Head and Reckless do not affect Mind Blown. If the user has Parental Bond in a Single Battle, the HP loss occurs after the first hit, and the second hit will only occur if neither Pokémon has fainted as a result. There is no additional HP loss for the second hit in that case. The user loses if all of the last Pokémon faint in the same turn as the result of using Mind Blown. In Versions 1.0 to 1.2.1 of Pokémon Sword and Shield, Mind Blown could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 1.3.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation. Mind Blown does not exist in the game data of Pokémon Sun and Moon. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Mind Blown cannot be traded from Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon to Sun and Moon, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon Sun and Moon. In order to be transferred to Pokémon Sun and Moon, the Pokémon must forget Mind Blown. The following table lists the probability that Strange Flames Mind Blown will increase the user's Special Moves ↑ Next effect by each number of ranks. In Pokémon GO, Mind Blown is a Charged Attack that has been available since December 31, 2025. If a Shiny Pokémon uses Mind Blown, the move's animation is different, appearing to use a Shiny Blacephalon's blue head rather than the normal white one. It shares this distinction with Dragon Darts and Syrup Bomb. This does not happen in Pokémon GO; the head will always be white regardless if the user is shiny.

Title: Plasma Fists (move)

Plasma Fists (Japanese: プラズマフィスト Plasma Fist) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the signature move of Zeraora. Plasma Fists inflicts damage. In the remainder of the current turn, all Normal-type moves will become Electric-type, including status moves. This includes Max Moves, which will turn into Max Lightning (or G-Max Volt Crash or G-Max Stun Shock for Gigantamax Pikachu and Gigantamax Toxtricity, respectively). The type-changing effect is applied after move type-changing Abilities, so it cannot affect an originally Normal-type move used by a Pokémon with Pixilate but can affect an originally Fairy-type move used by a Pokémon with Normalize. Plasma Fists does not exist in the game data of Pokémon Sun and Moon. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Plasma Fists cannot be traded from Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon to Sun and Moon, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move, it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon Sun and Moon. In order to be transferred to Pokémon Sun and Moon, the Pokémon must forget Plasma Fists. In Pokémon UNITE, Zeraora's Unite Move, Plasma Gale, is similar to Plasma Fists.

Title: Photon Geyser (move)

Photon Geyser (Japanese: フォトンゲイザー Photon Geyser) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is one of the signature moves of Necrozma. It can be upgraded to the special Z-Move Light That Burns the Sky by Ultra Necrozma holding Ultranecrozium Z. Photon Geyser deals damage. If the user's Attack stat is higher than its Special Attack stat, Photon Geyser becomes a physical move, doing damage to the target's Defense stat; otherwise it is a special move, doing damage to the target's Special Defense stat. During the execution of Photon Geyser, all ignorable Abilities are ignored. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially [negatively] affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies, such as Multiscale and Friend Guard.) However, it does not ignore Abilities if it is called by another move rather than directly used. For determining which stat is higher, stat stage modifiers are taken into account, but other effects (e.g. held items such as a Choice Band, Abilities such as Huge Power, etc.) are not. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Photon Geyser could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in previous generations. Photon Geyser does not exist in the game data of Pokémon Sun and Moon. As a result, a Pokémon knowing Photon Geyser cannot be traded from Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon to Sun and Moon, and if a Pokémon in Pokémon Bank knows the move, it cannot be withdrawn in Pokémon Sun and Moon. In order to be transferred to Pokémon Sun and Moon, the Pokémon must forget Photon Geyser.

Title: Searing Sunraze Smash (move)

Searing Sunraze Smash (Japanese: サンシャインスマッシャー Sunshine Smasher) is a damage-dealing Steel-type Z-Move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Solgaleo and Dusk Mane Necrozma and an upgraded version of their signature move, Sunsteel Strike. Searing Sunraze Smash inflicts damage, ignoring all ignorable Abilities during the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies—such as Multiscale and Friend Guard.) Searing Sunraze Smash cannot be selected in a battle. Solgaleo or Dusk Mane Necrozma, or a Pokémon transformed into either, can use Searing Sunraze Smash if it knows Sunsteel Strike, holds a Solganium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Power Ring. Searing Sunraze Smash and a Corkscrew Crash based on Doom Desire have the highest base power of all Steel-type moves.

Title: Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom (move)

Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom (Japanese: ムーンライトブラスター Moonlight Blaster) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type Z-Move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Lunala and Dawn Wings Necrozma and an upgraded version of their signature move, Moongeist Beam. Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom inflicts damage, ignoring all ignorable Abilities during the execution of that move. (Ignorable Abilities are most Abilities that could potentially negatively affect the success, damage, or effects of a move if possessed by the target of a move or its allies—such as Multiscale and Friend Guard.) Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom cannot be selected in a battle. Lunala or Dawn Wings Necrozma, or a Pokémon transformed into either, can use Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom if it knows Moongeist Beam, holds a Lunalium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Power Ring. Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom and Soul-Stealing 7-Star Strike are tied for the longest English names of all moves, with 27 characters each.

Title: Splintered Stormshards (move)

Splintered Stormshards (Japanese: ラジアルエッジストーム Radial Edgestorm) is a damage-dealing Rock-type Z-Move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Lycanroc and an upgraded version of its Stone Edge. Splintered Stormshards inflicts damage and removes any terrain present on the battlefield. Splintered Stormshards cannot be selected in a battle. Any form of Lycanroc, or a Pokémon transformed into one, can use Splintered Stormshards if it knows Stone Edge, holds a Lycanium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Power Ring. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until January 25, 2023, which is 1091 days after its release date (on January 30, 2020). Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Removes physical and special damage-reducing effects from the opponents' field of play. While the move's properties remain the same, the animation for Splintered Stormshards changes based on the form of Lycanroc using it, with the apparent time of day during the animation matching the Lycanroc's form. In Pokémon Masters EX, Island Splintered Stormshards is the only sync move that removes some field effects.

Title: Clangorous Soulblaze (move)

Clangorous Soulblaze (Japanese: ブレイジングソウルビート Blazing Soulbeat) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type Z-Move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. It is the exclusive Z-Move of Kommo-o and an upgraded version of its signature move, Clanging Scales. Clangorous Soulblaze inflicts damage to all opposing Pokémon and increases the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed stats by one stage each. Clangorous Soulblaze can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. The user's move fails if the opponents are in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move, or if the targets are immune to this move; the user's stats are not raised if the move is unable to damage any of the opposing Pokémon. The stats raised are part of the Z-Move's effect, rather than a Z-Power Effect, and therefore interacts with move-modifying effects such as Simple and Contrary normally. Clangororus Soulblaze cannot be selected in a battle. Kommo-o, or a Pokémon transformed into Kommo-o, can use Clangorous Soulblaze if it knows Clanging Scales, holds a Kommonium Z, and if its Trainer wears a Z-Power Ring. Does damage and grants stat boosts at the same time. In the animated series, Clangorous Soulblaze is the only Z-Move that: Debuted outside of Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon. Though Z-Moves have been removed from the core series as of Generation VIII, Kommo-o received a new signature move in this generation, Clangorous Soul; due to having a similar name in all languages, it could be seen as a downgraded version of Clangorous Soulblaze, with the similar effect of increasing the user's stats, but with the drawback of decreasing the user's HP.

Title: Zippy Zap (move)

Zippy Zap (Japanese: ばちばちアクセル Crackling Accel) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Pikachu. Zippy Zap inflicts damage and will always result in a critical hit. It has a priority of +2, so it is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Zippy Zap cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its PP was changed to 10 while its power was changed to 80. Additionally, its secondary effect is raising evasion by one stage, instead of a guaranteed critical hit. In Let's Go, Pikachu!, the Move Tutor of Zippy Zap is located in Cerulean City's Pokémon Center. Zippy Zap is currently the last move in alphabetical order.

Title: Splishy Splash (move)

Splishy Splash (Japanese: ざぶざぶサーフ Splashing Surf) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Pikachu. Splishy Splash deals damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. In Let's Go, Pikachu!, the Move Tutor of Splishy Splash is located in Fuchsia City's Pokémon Center. Splishy Splash is the only Water-type move that can inflict paralysis. Splishy Splash may be a reference to Surfing Pikachu.

Title: Floaty Fall (move)

Floaty Fall (Japanese: ふわふわフォール Floaty Fall) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Pikachu. Floaty Fall deals damage and has a 30% chance of making the target flinch. In Let's Go, Pikachu!, the Move Tutor of Floaty Fall is located in Celadon City's Pokémon Center. This move appears to be a reference to Flying Pikachu.

Title: Pika Papow (move)

Pika Papow (Japanese: ピカピカサンダー Pikapika Thunder) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves and the partner power of the partner Pikachu. It acts as a fifth move that can only be used by shaking the game controller when prompted by an animated icon of Pikachu waving a Joy-Con. Pika Papow deals damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit. The base power of Pika Papow is dependent on the friendship of the user. The greater the user's friendship, the greater the base power. The base power of Pika Papow varies between 1 (at the minimum friendship value of 0) and 102 (at the maximum friendship value of 255).

Title: Bouncy Bubble (move)

Bouncy Bubble (Japanese: いきいきバブル Lively Bubble) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Bouncy Bubble deals damage and 50% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user. Bouncy Bubble cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its PP was changed to 20, its power was changed to 60, and 100% of the damage dealt to the target is restored to the user. The move would be unusable if the user is under the Heal Block status. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Bouncy Bubble is located in Cerulean City's Pokémon Center. Bouncy Bubble is the only Water-type HP-draining move. Of all damage-dealing moves, Bouncy Bubble is tied with Quick Attack for most variations in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, with eight including itself.

Title: Buzzy Buzz (move)

Buzzy Buzz (Japanese: びりびりエレキ Shocking Electricity) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Buzzy Buzz deals damage and paralyzes its target when it hits. Buzzy Buzz cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its PP was changed to 20 while its power was changed to 60. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Buzzy Buzz is located in Cerulean City's Pokémon Center. Even though this move cannot be used in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, one of the obtainable camera effects in the League Club Room is named after Buzzy Buzz. It shares this trait with Sizzly Slide.

Title: Sizzly Slide (move)

Sizzly Slide (Japanese: めらめらバーン Blazing Burn) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Sizzly Slide deals damage and burns its target when it hits. Sizzly Slide cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its PP was changed to 20 while its power was changed to 60. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Sizzly Slide is located in Cerulean City's Pokémon Center. Even though this move cannot be used in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, one of the obtainable camera effects in the League Club Room is named after Sizzly Slide. It shares this trait with Buzzy Buzz.

Title: Glitzy Glow (move)

Glitzy Glow (Japanese: どばどばオーラ Gushing Aura) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Glitzy Glow deals damage and sets up the effects of the move Light Screen on the user's side of the field. Glitzy Glow cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its power was changed to 80 and its accuracy to 95%. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Glitzy Glow is located in Celadon City's Pokémon Center.

Title: Baddy Bad (move)

Baddy Bad (Japanese: わるわるゾーン Bad-Bad Zone) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Baddy Bad deals damage and sets up the effects of the move Reflect on the user's side of the field. Baddy Bad cannot be selected in battle. However, it has been modified: its power was changed to 80 and its accuracy to 95%. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Baddy Bad is located in Celadon City's Pokémon Center.

Title: Sappy Seed (move)

Sappy Seed (Japanese: すくすくボンバー Fast-Growing Bomber) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Sappy Seed deals damage and plants a seed on the target. Sappy Seed has 90 power, 100% accuracy, and 15 PP. Sappy Seed cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: it now has 100 power, 90% accuracy, and 10 PP. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Sappy Seed is located in Fuchsia City's Pokémon Center.

Title: Freezy Frost (move)

Freezy Frost (Japanese: こちこちフロスト Frozen-Stiff Frost) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Freezy Frost deals damage and resets the stat stages of all active Pokémon on the field to 0. Freezy Frost cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its power was changed to 100, its accuracy to 90%, and its PP to 10. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Freezy Frost is located in Fuchsia City's Pokémon Center.

Title: Sparkly Swirl (move)

Sparkly Swirl (Japanese: きらきらストーム Sparkly Storm) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves of the partner Eevee. Sparkly Swirl deals damage and cures the user, all Pokémon in the user's party, and the user's allies, of all non-volatile status conditions (sleep, poison, paralysis, freeze, and burn). Sparkly Swirl cannot be selected in a battle. However, it has been modified: its power was changed to 120, its accuracy to 85%, and its PP to 5. In Let's Go, Eevee!, the Move Tutor of Sparkly Swirl is located in Fuchsia City's Pokémon Center.

Title: Veevee Volley (move)

Veevee Volley (Japanese: ブイブイブレイク Vuivui Break) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is one of the signature moves and the partner power of the partner Eevee. It acts as a fifth move that can only be used by shaking the game controller when prompted by an animated icon of Eevee waving a Joy-Con. Veevee Volley deals damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit. The base power of Veevee Volley is dependent on the friendship of the user. The greater the user's friendship, the greater the base power. The base power of Veevee Volley varies between 1 (at the minimum friendship value of 0) and 102 (at the maximum friendship value of 255). The base power of Veevee Volley is set to 1 if the formula outputs 0.

Title: Double Iron Bash (move)

Double Iron Bash (Japanese: ダブルパンツァー Double Panzer) is a damage-dealing Steel-type multistrike move introduced during Generation VII, in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!. It is the signature move of Melmetal. Double Iron Bash inflicts damage, hitting the target twice per use, and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch with each hit (for an overall 51% chance). If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has used Minimize, Double Iron Bash deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. Double Iron Bash no longer has a special interaction with Minimize. Double Iron Bash is the last Generation VII move in index number order. In Pokémon the Series, Professor Kukui named this move. The Japanese name of this move plays on a pun between ‘Panzer’ (パンツァー, pantsaa) and ‘Punch’ (パンチ, panchi). This is supported by the fact that the move is categorized as a punching move. Double Iron Bash is the only move introduced in Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! that is usable in Sword and Shield. It is also the only move introduced in Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! to have been used in the Pokémon animated series.

Title: Max Guard (move)

Max Guard (Japanese: ダイウォール Dai Wall) is a non-damaging Normal-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Guard protects the user from moves for the rest of the turn. It offers greater protection than most other protection moves. Max Guard fully protects the user from most Max Moves and cannot be penetrated or nullified by most moves that break protection. G-Max One Blow, G-Max Rapid Flow, and Feint deal full damage through Max Guard, but Feint does not lift Max Guard's protection like it would other protection effects. Max Guard also follows many of the moves that bypass other protection, but it successfully protects from Block, Flower Shield, Gear Up, Magnetic Flux, Phantom Force, Psych Up, Shadow Force, Teatime, Transform, and any contact move affected by Unseen Fist. If the user goes last in the turn, Max Guard will fail. The chance that Max Guard will succeed drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Any Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon can use Max Guard if it knows a status move. All Dynamax and Gigantamax Pokémon can learn Max Guard. Crowned Sword Zacian, Crowned Shield Zamazenta, and Eternatus can learn a variant called Guard. Players must first unlock Max Guard and can then increase its level up to Level 3. Activating Dynamax Cannon's Adventure Effect temporarily increases Max Guard's level by 1, except for Zacian and Zamazenta. If Max Guard is locked, Dynamax Cannon will temporarily unlock it at Level 1. Using Max Guard during a Max Battle adds a small amount of temporary HP to the user, visually represented by a shield next to the user's HP bar. At Level 1, each shield represents 20 HP; at Level 2, each shield represents 40 HP; at Level 3, each shield represents 60 HP; and at Level 4 (Level 3 while under the Adventure Effect of Dynamax Cannon), each shield represents 80 HP. Using Max Guard repeatedly will add more shields, up to a maximum of three, for a combined maximum of 60 HP at Level 1, 120 HP at Level 2, 180 HP at Level 3, and 240 HP at Level 4. Max Guard will also make the user the center of attention, encouraging the boss to attack the user when using single-target attacks instead of picking a target at random. If Guard is unlocked on Crowned Shield Zamazenta, it will enter the battle with one shield pre-applied, immediately making it the center of attention. Crowned Shield Zamazenta can also have up to four shields at once, instead of the usual three, for a combined maximum of 80 HP at Level 1, 160 HP at Level 2, and 240 HP at Level 3. Zamazenta's Level 3 Guard has the same maximum shield of 240 HP as a Max Pokémon's Level 4 Max Guard, which is the highest possible since Zamazenta is not affected by Dynamax Cannon's Adventure Effect. Max Guard is the only Max Move in the core series: That can have a different type than its base move. Max Guard is the first Generation VIII move in index number order.

Title: Dynamax Cannon (move)

Dynamax Cannon (Japanese: ダイマックスほう Daimax Cannon) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the signature moves of Eternatus. Dynamax Cannon deals damage. If the target is Dynamaxed or Gigantamaxed, its damage is doubled. The bonus does not apply to Eternamax Eternatus, despite its similarities to a Gigantamaxed Pokémon. Encore fails if the target's last move was Dynamax Cannon. As there is no Dynamax mechanic in Generation IX, Dynamax Cannon now deals damage with no secondary effect. In Pokémon GO, Dynamax Cannon is a Charged Attack that debuted on August 17, 2025. Dynamax Cannon can also be used in Max Battles as a Max Move, and can be leveled up as one. Dynamax Cannon can't be replaced with another move using Charged TMs. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle will increase the level of all Max Moves by 1 (excluding Behemoth Blade and Behemoth Bash). Any Max Moves at Level 3 will increase to Level 4, which provides an exceptionally large amount of power relative to a standard level up, while any locked Max Moves will temporarily be raised to Level 1. It costs 5,000 and 30, and lasts 10 minutes. Prior to Version 2.20.0*: This move's power increases 50% when the target has a sync buff.

Title: Snipe Shot (move)

Snipe Shot (Japanese: ねらいうち Snipe Shot) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Inteleon. Snipe Shot deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It is unaffected by moves and Ability effects that draw in moves, such as Follow Me and Storm Drain. Prior to Version 1.2.0 of Sword and Shield, if Snipe Shot was selected by Metronome, the move would fail (as Metronome targets oneself when it is used). In Double Battles, due to a glitch, Snipe Shot will fail if called via Sleep Talk. In Pokémon Masters EX, this has the lowest power of all attack moves that cost four move-gauge slots.

Title: Jaw Lock (move)

Jaw Lock (Japanese: くらいつく Seize with Teeth) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation VIII. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature move of Chewtle and Drednaw. Jaw Lock inflicts damage. It also prevents the user and the target from fleeing or switching out (even if they are allies), unless either of them is already prevented, and until either Pokémon is removed from the field. Jaw Lock does not prevent a Pokémon from switching out with Wimp Out or Emergency Exit or due to Shed Shell, Eject Button, or Red Card.

Title: Stuff Cheeks (move)

Stuff Cheeks (Japanese: ほおばる Stuff Cheeks) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VIII. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature move of Skwovet and Greedent. The user eats its held Berry, and raises its Defense stat by two stages in addition to the effect that Berry might normally have. The user can successfully eat its Berry even in the presence of Unnerve or Magic Room. If the user is not holding a Berry, Stuff Cheeks cannot be selected from the move menu, and if the user has no other usable moves, it will be forced to use Struggle. If a Pokémon would use Stuff Cheeks, but is not holding a Berry when it would use the move (e.g. if its held Berry had been removed by Knock Off), Stuff Cheeks fails. In Pokémon UNITE, Stuff Cheeks is Greedent's second move. It is obtained by evolving from Skwovet at level 5 and upgrading Defense Curl into it instead of Covet. The user drops several Oran Berries, which can be eaten to recover HP. Any HP recovered from an OranBerry eaten within 5s that exceeds user's max HP will be converted to a shield. If the user catches sight of a Berry while using this move, movement speed is increased for a short time. At level 11, this move drops more Berries.

Title: No Retreat (move)

No Retreat (Japanese: はいすいのじん Last Stand) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Falinks. No Retreat raises the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. It also prevents the user from switching out or fleeing. No Retreat fails if the user has been prevented from switching out or fleeing due to using No Retreat. However, if the user has already been given the "Can't Escape" status by another move such as Mean Look, No Retreat will successfully grant its stat boosts but will not create an additional status line to trap the user again. In this case, using No Retreat multiple times will create multiple boosts. The user of No Retreat can still switch out after using the move if it is holding a Shed Shell, if its Eject Button activates, if its opponent's Red Card activates, or if its opponent uses a move on it that forces the target to switch out, such as Whirlwind or Dragon Tail. If the user is Ghost-type, they are also free to switch, but the Pokémon will still receive a "Can't Escape" status on its status screen, which will prevent it from using No Retreat again. No Retreat has the highest cooldown of all moves in Pokémon Legends: Z-A.

Title: Tar Shot (move)

Tar Shot (Japanese: タールショット Tar Shot) is a non-damaging Rock-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Coalossal. Tar Shot lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage and doubles the effectiveness of Fire-type moves used on the target. Tar Shot will not double the effectiveness of Fire-type moves used on a target that is already under the effect of Tar Shot (but may still lower its Speed). The increased vulnerability to Fire-type attacks does not affect a Pokémon that is Terastallized, however if a Pokémon already affected by the increased vulnerability Terastallizes, the effect will remain.

Title: Magic Powder (move)

Magic Powder (Japanese: まほうのこな Magic Powder) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Hatterene. Magic Powder changes the target's type to pure Psychic. The effect lasts as long as the target remains in battle; however, changing form, transforming, or Terastallizing overrides the effect. Magic Powder fails if the target has a substitute, is already a pure Psychic type, is Terastallized, or its Ability is RKS System. Being a powder move, it fails if the target is a Grass-type Pokémon, has the Ability Overcoat, or is holding Safety Goggles. Magic Powder is the only powder-based move that cannot be learned by a Grass or Bug-type Pokémon.

Title: Dragon Darts (move)

Dragon Darts (Japanese: ドラゴンアロー Dragon Arrow) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type multistrike move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Dragapult. Dragon Darts is a multistrike move that deals damage twice. If targeting an opponent when there are multiple opponents, Dragon Darts' first strike targets the original target and its second strike targets the other opponent. If either the original target or its ally would take no damage from Dragon Darts, both strikes are directed at the other Pokémon instead. If Dragon Darts targets an ally, both hits will hit that ally. Wide Guard does not affect Dragon Darts. The following reasons for taking no damage from Dragon Darts will cause it to target the other Pokémon: If Dragon Darts would miss due to the user's accuracy or the target's evasion If Dragon Darts would miss due to targeting a Tatsugiri which is in its ally Dondozo's mouth If both target Pokémon are immune to Dragon Darts, only one of their immunity is acknowledged. If one of Dragon Darts' strikes is redirected in order to avert a miss due to accuracy and evasion, this will activate the user's Blunder Policy (even if both strikes successfully hit the other Pokémon). If an opponent is the center of attention (such as due to Follow Me), both strikes will target that Pokémon, even if it is immune to Dragon Darts. Pressure, will deduct additional PP for each Pokémon the move targets that has the ability. In a Max Raid Battle, if used by the wild Pokémon, each strike targets two opponents individually, hitting one Pokémon first and then another Pokémon adjacent to the first target. If the user has Prankster and calls Dragon Darts via a move that calls other moves, such as Copycat, and one of the targets is Dark-type, its type immunity is acknowledged properly and it hits the other target twice. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. In Pokémon UNITE, Dragapult's Unite Move, Dreep and Destroy, is similar to Dragon Darts. Dragon Darts has some unique animation traits in Generation VIII. The move's animation is different if: The move is used by a Pokémon that is not Dragapult. A Shiny Pokémon uses Dragon Darts, with the Dreepy also appearing as Shiny. It shares this distinction with Mind Blown and Syrup Bomb. Due to the change in the move's animation going into Generation IX, it is no longer possible to see either of these differences.

Title: Teatime (move)

Teatime (Japanese: おちゃかい Tea Party) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Polteageist. Teatime causes all Pokémon on the field to eat their held Berry. This move bypasses substitutes. If a Pokémon has eaten its Berry, Teatime fails to work on that Pokémon. The Berry is eaten even if it would not have any effect, such as eating a Mago Berry at full health. If no Pokémon on the field has a held Berry, Teatime fails with the message "But nothing happened!". Teatime causes Pokémon to eat their Berries even in the presence of Unnerve or Magic Room. This move does not affect Pokémon under the effect of Max Guard. Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move are not affected by Teatime. If Teatime has its type changed by Electrify or Plasma Fists, Pokémon with Volt Absorb, Lightning Rod, or Motor Drive will not use up their Berries but will instead gain the benefit of the Ability regardless of whether they are holding a Berry or not.

Title: Octolock (move)

Octolock (Japanese: たこがため Octopus Hold) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced in Generation VIII. Prior to Generation IX, it was the signature move of Grapploct. Octolock prevents the target from fleeing or switching out. At the end of each turn, the target's Defense and Special Defense are lowered by one stage each. If the user switches out, the target will be freed.

Title: Bolt Beak (move)

Bolt Beak (Japanese: でんげきくちばし Electrical Shock Beak) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of the Fossilized Bird Pokémon. Bolt Beak deals damage. If the user attacks before the target, or if the target switches in during the turn that Bolt Beak is used, its base power doubles to 170.

Title: Fishious Rend (move)

Fishious Rend (Japanese: エラがみ Gill Bite) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of the Fossilized Fish Pokémon. Fishious Rend deals damage. If the user attacks before the target, or if the target switches in during the turn that Fishious Rend is used, its base power doubles to 170. Strong Jaw further increases power by 50%. Despite being considered a biting move, its description claims that the Pokémon uses its gills to use the attack.

Title: Court Change (move)

Court Change (Japanese: コートチェンジ Court Change) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the signature moves of Cinderace. Court Change causes any active battle effects to swap sides. This affects barriers like Reflect, multi-turn effects like Tailwind, and entry hazards like Spikes. Court Change does not cause any Pokémon afflicted with a volatile or non-volatile status condition to pass that condition to another Pokémon, nor does it transfer any Pokémon's stat changes to any other Pokémon. Court Change has no effect on effects that affect the entire field (like weather, terrain, or Trick Room). If used on an effect created by a G-Max Move, such as G-Max Volcalith, Court Change will successfully switch the passive effect so long as it only impacts one side of the field. If both sides of the battle are affected by the same effect, but are each on different remaining turns, Court Change will swap both effects' remaining turns. If Court Change transfers an entry hazard, it will not have any effect until a new Pokémon is switched in. If a Sticky Web is swapped back to its user's side of the field, and a Pokémon with Defiant or Competitive is then switched onto this Sticky Web, the Abilities will not activate. Defiant or Competitive will now activate because of a Sticky Web swapped back to its user's side of the field.

Title: Max Flare (move)

Max Flare (Japanese: ダイバーン Dai Burn) is a damage-dealing Fire-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Flare inflicts damage and creates harsh sunlight for 5 turns (8 if a Heat Rock is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Flare if it knows a damaging Fire-type move.

Title: Max Flutterby (move)

Max Flutterby (Japanese: ダイワーム Dai Worm) is a damage-dealing Bug-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Flutterby inflicts damage and then decreases the target's and its ally's Special Attack by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Flutterby if it knows a damaging Bug-type move.

Title: Max Lightning (move)

Max Lightning (Japanese: ダイサンダー Dai Thunder) is a damage-dealing Electric-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Lightning inflicts damage and causes the battlefield to become Electric Terrain for 5 turns (8 if a Terrain Extender is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Lightning if it knows a damaging Electric-type move. Description prior to Version 2.21.0 (since May 26, 2022): Turns the field into Electric Terrain.

Title: Max Strike (move)

Max Strike (Japanese: ダイアタック Dai Attack) is a damage-dealing Normal-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Strike does damage to a target and lowers the Speed of all opponents by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. If Max Strike is used with Multi-Attack or Techno Blast as its base move while the user is holding a Memory or a Drive, respectively, Max Strike turns into the Max Move of the type corresponding to the type of Memory or Drive held by the user. If Max Strike is used during weather with Weather Ball as its base move, it turns into the Max Move of the type corresponding to the type Weather Ball would be in that weather. In a similar way, if Max Strike is used during terrain with Terrain Pulse as its base move, it turns into the Max Move of the type corresponding to the type Terrain Pulse would be in that terrain. If Max Strike is used by a Pokémon with Aerilate, Galvanize, Pixilate, or Refrigerate, it turns into the Max Move of the type corresponding to the Pokémon's Ability. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Strike if it knows a damaging Normal-type move.

Title: Max Knuckle (move)

Max Knuckle (Japanese: ダイナックル Dai Knuckle) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Knuckle inflicts damage and increases the Attack of the user and its allies by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Compared to other Max Moves, it usually has less power. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Knuckle if it knows a damaging Fighting-type move.

Title: Max Phantasm (move)

Max Phantasm (Japanese: ダイホロウ Dai Hollow) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Phantasm inflicts damage and lowers the target's and its ally's Defense by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Phantasm if it knows a damaging Ghost-type move.

Title: Max Hailstorm (move)

Max Hailstorm (Japanese: ダイアイス Dai Ice) is a damage-dealing Ice-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Hailstorm inflicts damage and creates hail for 5 turns (8 if an Icy Rock is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Hailstorm if it knows a damaging Ice-type move.

Title: Max Ooze (move)

Max Ooze (Japanese: ダイアシッド Dai Acid) is a damage-dealing Poison-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Ooze inflicts damage and then raises the user's and its ally's Special Attack by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Compared to the other Max Moves, it usually has less power. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Ooze if it knows a damaging Poison-type move.

Title: Max Geyser (move)

Max Geyser (Japanese: ダイストリーム Dai Stream) is a damage-dealing Water-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Geyser inflicts damage and creates rain for 5 turns (8 if a Damp Rock is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Geyser if it knows a damaging Water-type move. Max Geyser was the first Max Move and Generation VIII move seen in the animated series.

Title: Max Airstream (move)

Max Airstream (Japanese: ダイジェット Dai Jet) is a damage-dealing Flying-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Airstream inflicts damage and raises the user's and its ally's Speed by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Airstream if it knows a damaging Flying-type move.

Title: Max Starfall (move)

Max Starfall (Japanese: ダイフェアリー Dai Fairy) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Starfall inflicts damage and causes the battlefield to become Misty Terrain for 5 turns (8 if a Terrain Extender is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Starfall if it knows a damaging Fairy-type move.

Title: Max Wyrmwind (move)

Max Wyrmwind (Japanese: ダイドラグーン Dai Dragoon) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Wyrmwind inflicts damage and lowers the target's and its ally's Attack by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Wyrmwind if it knows a damaging Dragon-type move.

Title: Max Mindstorm (move)

Max Mindstorm (Japanese: ダイサイコ Dai Psycho) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Mindstorm inflicts damage and causes the battlefield to become Psychic Terrain for 5 turns (8 if a Terrain Extender is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Mindstorm if it knows a damaging Psychic-type move.

Title: Max Rockfall (move)

Max Rockfall (Japanese: ダイロック Dai Rock) is a damage-dealing Rock-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Rockfall inflicts damage and creates a sandstorm for 5 turns (8 if a Smooth Rock is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Rockfall if it knows a damaging Rock-type move. Max Rockfall hits all opponents when used by Rose & Copperajah due to their passive skill P-Moves & Max Moves Expansion.

Title: Max Quake (move)

Max Quake (Japanese: ダイアース Dai Earth) is a damage-dealing Ground-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Quake inflicts damage and raises the user's and its ally's Special Defense by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Quake if it knows a damaging Ground-type move. Max Quake hits all opponents when used by Victor & Rillaboom or Rose & Copperajah due to their passive skills Targets Maxed and P-Moves & Max Moves Expansion, respectively.

Title: Max Darkness (move)

Max Darkness (Japanese: ダイアーク Dai Evil) is a damage-dealing Dark-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Darkness inflicts damage and lowers the target's and its ally's Special Defense by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Darkness if it knows a damaging Dark-type move.

Title: Max Overgrowth (move)

Max Overgrowth (Japanese: ダイソウゲン Dai Grassland) is a damage-dealing Grass-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Overgrowth inflicts damage and causes the battlefield to become Grassy Terrain for 5 turns (8 if a Terrain Extender is held). Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Overgrowth if it knows a damaging Grass-type move. In Early-Evening Waves, Milo's Eldegoss was revealed to be capable of using Max Overgrowth, but the move was used offscreen. Max Overgrowth's Japanese name is likely a pun on 大草原(だいそうげん) (prairie).

Title: Max Steelspike (move)

Max Steelspike (Japanese: ダイスチル Dai Steel) is a damage-dealing Steel-type Max Move introduced in Generation VIII. Max Steelspike inflicts damage and raises the user's and its ally's Defense by one stage. Its power and whether it is a special or physical move depends on the move it is based on. Any Dynamax Pokémon can use Max Steelspike if it knows a damaging Steel-type move.

Title: Clangorous Soul (move)

Clangorous Soul (Japanese: ソウルビート Soul Beat) is a non-damaging Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the signature moves of Kommo-o. Clangorous Soul raises the user's Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense and Speed by one stage each, at the cost of 1/3 of its maximum HP. If all of the user's stats mentioned above are at +6 stages, or its remaining HP is less than or equal to 1/3 of its maximum, Clangorous Soul fails. Though Z-Moves have been removed from the core series as of Generation VIII, Clangorous Soul could be seen as a downgraded version of Kommo-o's signature Z-Move, Clangorous Soulblaze; the moves' names are similar in all languages, and both moves increase the user's stats the same way, though Clangorous Soulblaze requires no HP decrease, does damage to the opponent in addition to the stat increase it provides, and can only be used once per battle.

Title: Body Press (move)

Body Press (Japanese: ボディプレス Body Press) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It was TR99 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM089 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Body Press inflicts damage, but it uses the user's Defense stat instead of its Attack stat to calculate damage. The user's Defense stat stage-modifiers are applied (rather than Attack stage-modifiers), but otherwise its Attack modifiers are used (including held item, Ability, and burn). For example, the user's Huge Power or a held Choice Band will increase the stat used in calculation, whereas Fur Coat or a held Eviolite will not. In the same vein, Slow Start or Defeatist can decrease the stat used in calculation, whereas Sword of Ruin cannot. Along with Life Dew, Body Press is one of the only Generation VIII moves to be usable in Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl.

Title: Decorate (move)

Decorate (Japanese: デコレーション Decoration) is a non-damaging Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Alcremie. Decorate raises the target's Attack and Special Attack stats by two stages each. Unlike most moves, it bypasses moves like Protect, Detect, and even Max Guard to affect the target but is blocked by Crafty Shield. It cannot affect a target that has a substitute or in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. In Versions 1.0 to 2.0.2 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Decorate could not be selected in a battle. Starting with Version 3.0.0, it is usable and functions the same as it did in the previous generation.

Title: Drum Beating (move)

Drum Beating (Japanese: ドラムアタック Drum Attack) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Rillaboom. Drum Beating inflicts damage and lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Drum Beating is a Charged Attack that became available starting January 18, 2026.

Title: Snap Trap (move)

Snap Trap (Japanese: トラバサミ Foothold Trap) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Galarian Stunfisk. In addition to dealing damage, Snap Trap inflicts 1/8 of the target's maximum HP as damage per turn for four to five turns upon use. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If the user of Snap Trap is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 7 turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/8 of the target's maximum HP to 1/6.

Title: Pyro Ball (move)

Pyro Ball (Japanese: かえんボール Flame Ball) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the signature moves of Cinderace. Pyro Ball will thaw out the user if it is frozen, and then inflict damage on the target. Pyro Ball also has a 10% chance of burning the target. It has no effect on Pokémon with the Bulletproof Ability. In Pokémon GO, Pyro Ball is a Charged Attack that became available starting March 14, 2026. In Pokémon UNITE, Pyro Ball is Cinderace's first move. It is obtained by evolving from Raboot at level 7 and upgrading Ember into it instead of Blaze Kick. The user kicks a ball of flame in a designated direction, burning and damaging enemies hit. At level 11, after this move hits, the cooldown on user's other move is decreased. When their sync move is Fire-type, Gloria (Alt. 2) & Cinderace's passive skill Fuel Economy 2 makes this move cost two move gauge slots to use. When their sync move is Fighting-type, Gloria (Alt. 2) & Cinderace's passive skill Piercing Gaze makes their use of this move never miss.

Title: Behemoth Blade (move)

Behemoth Blade (Japanese: きょじゅうざん Behemoth Slash) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Zacian. Behemoth Blade deals damage. If the target is Dynamaxed or Gigantamaxed, its damage is doubled. The bonus does not apply to Eternamax Eternatus, despite its similarities to a Gigantamaxed Pokémon. As there is no Dynamax mechanic in Generation IX, Behemoth Blade now deals damage with no secondary effect. If Zacian knows Iron Head while entering battle in its Crowned Sword form, Iron Head will become Behemoth Blade for the duration of the battle. In Pokémon GO, Behemoth Blade is a Charged Attack that debuted on May 29, 2025. It replaces Iron Head when Zacian transforms from its Hero of Many Battles form into its Crowned Sword form. Behemoth Blade can also be used in Max Battles as a Max Move, and can be leveled up as one. Behemoth Blade can't be replaced with another move using Charged TMs. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle, which became available on June 24, 2025, will increase the power of the attacks used by the player's Pokémon by 10% during Raids and by 5% during Max Battles. It costs 5,000 Stardust and 5 Zacian Candy, and lasts 6 minutes. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (released on April 27, 2022): This move's power increases 50% when the target has a sync buff. This attack targets all opponents and always results in a critical hit when used by Hop & Zacian due to their passive skill The Sword That Saved Galar. This attack targets all opponents and always results in a critical hit due to Hop & Zacian's passive skill The Sword That Saved Galar. Description of 6★ EX effect prior to Version 2.18.5 (released on March 15, 2022): Additional Effects: Sync move targets all opponents. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (released on April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target has a sync buff. In Pokémon UNITE, Zacian's Unite Move, Sovereign Sword, is similar to Behemoth Blade. If used by a transformed Pokémon, Behemoth Blade will display a shorter animation with the transformed Pokémon stuck in a default pose. Behemoth Blade and Behemoth Bash were formerly not present in the mobile version of Pokémon HOME's move Pokédex, as they are the signature moves of Crowned Sword Zacian and Crowned Shield Zamazenta (which are forms that appear only in battles and, therefore, cannot be deposited into HOME) and cannot be learned by a Smeargle via Sketch, as it is not present in Pokémon Sword and Shield. With the addition of Smeargle to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the two moves were finally added to Pokémon HOME. This distinction is shared with Glacial Lance and Astral Barrage for the same reasoning, as well as Struggle which cannot be legitimately learned by any Pokémon, and Light of Ruin as Pokémon Legends: Z-A is not yet compatible with Pokémon HOME.

Title: Behemoth Bash (move)

Behemoth Bash (Japanese: きょじゅうだん Behemoth Impact) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Zamazenta. Behemoth Bash deals damage. If the target is Dynamaxed or Gigantamaxed, its damage is doubled. The bonus does not apply to Eternamax Eternatus, despite its similarities to a Gigantamaxed Pokémon. As there is no Dynamax mechanic in Generation IX, Behemoth Bash now deals damage with no secondary effect. If Zamazenta knows Iron Head while entering battle in its Crowned Shield form, Iron Head will become Behemoth Bash for the duration of the battle. In Pokémon GO, Behemoth Bash is a Charged Attack that debuted on May 29, 2025. It replaces Iron Head when Zamazenta transforms from its Hero of Many Battles form into its Crowned Shield form. Behemoth Bash can also be used in Max Battles as a Max Move, and can be leveled up as one. Behemoth Bash can't be replaced with another move using Charged TMs. Its Adventure Effect outside of battle, which became available on June 24, 2025, will reduce the damage taken by Pokémon by 10% during Raids and by 5% during Max Battles. It costs 5,000 Stardust and 5 Zamazenta Candy, and lasts 6 minutes. Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (released on April 27, 2022): This move's power increases 50% when the target has a sync buff. This sync move could not be raised to 6★ EX until July 14, 2023—1 year, 11 months, 2 days after its release date (on August 12, 2021). Description prior to Version 2.20.0 (released on April 27, 2022): This move's power increases when the target has a sync buff. Behemoth Bash and Behemoth Blade were formerly not present in the mobile version of Pokémon HOME's move Pokédex, as they are the signature moves of Crowned Shield Zamazenta and Crowned Sword Zacian (which are forms that appear only in battles and, therefore, cannot be deposited into HOME) and cannot be learned by a Smeargle via Sketch, as it is not present in Pokémon Sword and Shield. With the addition of Smeargle to Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the two moves were finally added to Pokémon HOME. This distinction is shared with Glacial Lance and Astral Barrage for the same reasoning, as well as Struggle and Light of Ruin, both of which cannot be legitimately learned by any Pokémon.

Title: Aura Wheel (move)

Aura Wheel (Japanese: オーラぐるま Aura Wheel) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Morpeko. Aura Wheel inflicts damage and raises the user's Speed stat by one stage. Its type changes depending on Morpeko's current mode. The user's Speed stat will not be raised if the attack misses or the target is immune to or protected from the move. Aura Wheel can only be successfully used by Morpeko (or a Pokémon that has transformed into Morpeko). If this move is used by any other Pokémon, such as through Mimic, the move will fail, displaying the battle text "But <Pokémon> can't use the move!" Morpeko will now change forms every time it uses Aura Wheel. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Raises the user's Speed. When the user is in Full Belly Mode, this attack becomes Electric-type. When the user is in Hangry Mode, this attack becomes Dark-type. Description prior to Version 2.23.0 (from July 27, 2022): Raises the user's Speed by one stat rank. When the user is in Full Belly Mode, this attack becomes Electric-type. When the user is in Hangry Mode, this attack becomes Dark-type. Aura Wheel's type will change to Dark when used by Morpeko in its Battle-Only Form, Hangry Mode. This move's animation is a reference to hamster wheels. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Aura Wheel is the only move that can be copied by Sketch but not be used by Smeargle.

Title: Breaking Swipe (move)

Breaking Swipe (Japanese: ワイドブレイカー Wide Breaker) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It was TM99 in Pokémon Sword and Shield, and is TM222 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Breaking Swipe deals damage to all opponents. It lowers the Attack of all targets by one stage. Stat decreases caused by this move apply to each target hit. Iris (Alt.) & Hydreigon's passive skill Piercing Gaze makes their use of this move never miss. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Lowers the target's Attack. This buddy move was known as B Breaking Swipe prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon GO, Breaking Swipe is a Charged Attack that was made available on February 22, 2023. Breaking Swipe is the only Dragon-type move that can be taught by TM in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Branch Poke (move)

Branch Poke (Japanese: えだづき Branch Poke) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VIII. Branch Poke deals damage and has no secondary effect. In Pokémon UNITE, Branch Poke is Trevenant's second move. The user jabs in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies and decreasing their movement speed by 30% for 2s when it hits. At level 7, this move is replaced by either Horn Leech or Pain Split.

Title: Overdrive (move)

Overdrive redirects here. For the modes of Reshiram, Zekrom, and Kyurem, see List of Pokémon with form differences → Reshiram, Zekrom, and Kyurem. Overdrive (Japanese: オーバードライブ Overdrive) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Toxtricity. Overdrive is a sound-based move. Overdrive can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. Overdrive is the only Electric-type sound-based move.

Title: Apple Acid (move)

Apple Acid (Japanese: りんごさん Malic Acid) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Appletun. Apple Acid inflicts damage and lowers the target's Special Defense stat by one stage. Apple Acid is the only signature move of one of Applin's evolutions to not have an effect exclusive to it.

Title: Grav Apple (move)

Grav Apple (Japanese: Ｇのちから G-Force) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Flapple. Grav Apple inflicts damage and lowers the target's Defense stat by one stage. If Gravity is in effect, Grav Apple's base power increases to 120. The move is likely based on the popular story of how Isaac Newton came up with his theory of gravity when he saw an apple fall from a tree. The move's name is also a pun on gravity and crab apple, a small type of apple that resembles a cherry.

Title: Spirit Break (move)

Spirit Break (Japanese: ソウルクラッシュ Soul Crash) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VIII. Prior to Generation IX, it was one of the signature moves of Grimmsnarl. Spirit Break inflicts damage and lowers the target's Special Attack stat by one stage.

Title: Strange Steam (move)

Strange Steam (Japanese: ワンダースチーム Wonder Steam) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Galarian Weezing. Strange Steam deals damage and has a 20% chance of confusing the target.

Title: Life Dew (move)

Life Dew (Japanese: いのちのしずく Life Droplets) is a non-damaging Water-type move introduced in Generation VIII. Life Dew restores the HP of the user and its allies by 25% of their maximum HP. If an ally has Water Absorb, Storm Drain, or Dry Skin, it will activate and negate this move's effect on it. It affects allies with substitutes but cannot affect a Pokémon in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. This move originated as an ACE SPEC Item card in the TCG. Along with Body Press, Life Dew is one of the only Generation VIII moves to be usable in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl.

Title: Obstruct (move)

Obstruct (Japanese: ブロッキング Blocking) is a non-damaging Dark-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Obstagoon. Obstruct protects the user from all effects of physical and special moves that target it during the turn it is used. If Obstruct blocks an attack that would make contact with the user, the attacker's Defense stat is lowered by 2 stages. Obstruct causes the Defense stat to drop even if the user of Obstruct was immune to that contact move. (Moves that are blocked do not activate other effects that require making contact, like Rocky Helmet or Rough Skin.) If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Obstruct will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is divided by 3. Some moves will do damage through Obstruct. Most damaging Max Moves will only do 25% of their original damage, except G-Max One Blow and G-Max Rapid Flow which do full damage. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Obstruct. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Obstruct. Obstruct is an increased priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): ...If the move was a physical attack move, sharply lowers the Defense of the opponent that used it. In Pokémon GO, Obstruct is a Charged Attack that was made available on August 13, 2022. Obstagoon's Pokémon Sword Pokédex entry states that shouting is part of this move, and the user is seen shouting in the move animation. Despite this, Obstruct is not a sound-based move.

Title: False Surrender (move)

False Surrender (Japanese: どげざつき Groveling Strike) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Morgrem and Grimmsnarl. False Surrender inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly.

Title: Meteor Assault (move)

Meteor Assault (Japanese: スターアサルト Star Assault) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is the signature move of Sirfetch'd. Meteor Assault inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn. Meteor Assault is tied with Focus Punch for having the highest base power of all Fighting-type moves, excluding Z-Moves and Reversal at its full power.

Title: Eternabeam (move)

Eternabeam (Japanese: ムゲンダイビーム Infinity Beam) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is one of the signature moves of Eternatus. Eternabeam inflicts damage and then forces the user to recharge during the next turn, unless the move fails due to missing, type immunity, or being blocked by a protection move. Eternabeam is the first instance of a Legendary Pokémon's signature move being removed from the game. When Eternatus uses Eternabeam, it briefly appears in its Eternamax form during the move's animation. This is the only time Eternamax Eternatus is seen outside of the battle against it during the climax of Pokémon Sword and Shield. Despite displaying the Eternamax form for the duration of the move's animation, the game does not treat this as an actual form change internally; Eternatus's stats and form index value remain unchanged, and Eternamax Eternatus will not be registered in the player's Pokédex upon using this move. Eternabeam is the only move that is a regular move in the core series games but is a max move in Pokémon Masters EX. This move's name includes a reference to Eternamax in all languages. In English, Japanese, Chinese, and Korean, it is also a reference to Eternatus.

Title: Steel Beam (move)

Steel Beam (Japanese: てっていこうせん Beam of Steely Resolve) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation VIII. It is TM170 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM157 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Steel Beam inflicts damage, and the user takes damage equal to half of its maximum HP rounded up (unless it has Magic Guard). The user of Steel Beam will take damage even if the target is protected from it, if it hits a substitute, or if the move misses. If Steel Beam fails due to there being no targets (i.e. if all Pokémon in range fainted before the move was used), the user does not take damage. Steel Beam's base power is changed from 140 to 120. Steel Beam is a recoil move in this game. A Move Tutor will teach Steel Beam to any Steel-type Pokémon (except for Dusk Mane Necrozma), as well as both Zacian and Zamazenta. Arceus and Silvally can also learn the move regardless of their current type. The Move Tutor is: Several other sync pairs have sync moves that include the name Steel Beam. However, these moves' animations are identical to the generic Steel Sync Beam, and are not based on the move Steel Beam. Description prior to version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): The user takes damage equal to half of its maximum HP. The damage is taken even if the attack fails. Steel Beam is the only Steel-type move that damages the user. In April 2019, prior to the release of Pokémon Sword and Shield, CoroCoro Comics May ran a contest where fans could name the strongest Steel-type move. Steel Beam's Japanese name was the name that won this contest. The Japanese name of this move literally means an "all-out resistance" (徹底抗戦 tettei-kōsen), while also incorporating puns on 鉄 tetsu (iron or steel), 抵抗 teikō (resistance) and 光線 kōsen (beam). Not including Max Moves, Steel Beam was the first Generation VIII move seen in the animated series. It was used by Raihan's Duraludon in Toughing It Out!. Dusk Mane Necrozma is the only Steel-type Pokémon that cannot learn Steel Beam.

Title: Expanding Force (move)

Expanding Force (Japanese: ワイドフォース Wide Force) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM218 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Expanding Force inflicts damage. It normally targets a single Pokémon. If Psychic Terrain is in effect and the user is grounded upon its execution, this move gets a 1.5× power increase (in addition to the usual 1.3× bonus from terrain) and it becomes a move that targets both opponents. Alongside Scorching Sands, Expanding Force was the final standard move to debut in Pokémon the Series.

Title: Steel Roller (move)

Steel Roller (Japanese: アイアンローラー Iron Roller) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Iron Treads. Steel Roller deals damage and removes any active terrain. If no terrain is active upon the move's execution, it will fail. Steel Roller has a unique animation if it is used by a Starmobile. It shares this trait with Spin Out.

Title: Scale Shot (move)

Scale Shot (Japanese: スケイルショット Scale Shot) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type multistrike move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM200 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM143 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Scale Shot inflicts damage, hitting the target 2-5 times per use. If the user does not miss, the user's Speed is raised by one stage, while its Defense is lowered by one stage. Each strike made has an equal chance to be a critical hit. There is a 35% chance that it will hit 2 times, a 35% chance it will hit 3 times, a 15% chance it will hit 4 times, and a 15% chance it will hit 5 times. The average total base power (including the 10% base miss chance) is 69.8. Scale Shot may continue attacking after breaking a substitute. Counter will only acknowledge the last strike of this move. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. Pokémon with the Ability Skill Link will always hit five times when using Scale Shot unless it misses. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. Scale Shot is not affected by Sheer Force.

Title: Meteor Beam (move)

Meteor Beam (Japanese: メテオビーム Meteor Beam) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM220 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM156 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. On the turn it is selected, Meteor Beam will raise the user's Special Attack by one stage, and the message "[User] is overflowing with space power!" will be shown. On the following turn, Meteor Beam will do damage (factoring in the Special Attack boost), PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Meteor Beam is selected, the user won't be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. Sleep, freezing, binding, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Meteor Beam. If a Power Herb is held by the user, Meteor Beam can be executed in one turn. The user will charge and boost their Special Attack, consume the Power Herb, then execute the final stage of the move in the same turn. The Special Attack boost is applied because the charging stage is still performed. In Pokémon GO, Meteor Beam is a Charged Attack that was made available on September 18, 2022. Selene (Alt.) & Nihilego's passive skill Alola to You! makes this move lower the Sp. Def of each target by two stat ranks instead of one when the target is poisoned or badly poisoned. The power of this move scales for each Sp. Def drop on the target, increasing by 5% for each stat rank dropped, for a maximum power-up of 30%. Meteor Beam is learned by most extraterrestrial Pokémon and all Fossil Pokémon that are obtainable in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Shell Side Arm (move)

Shell Side Arm (Japanese: シェルアームズ Shell Arms) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is the signature move of Galarian Slowbro. Shell Side Arm deals damage and has a 20% chance of poisoning the target. Shell Side Arm forecasts whether its base damage would be higher as a physical move or special move, and becomes the category that it predicts would inflict more damage (chosen randomly if they are tied). For the forecast only, stat modifiers other than stat stages are ignored, and Wonder Room is applied to stat stage modifiers but not to the original stats. Shell Side Arm has a different animation depending on whether it is a physical or a special move. If it is a physical move, it makes contact; if it is a special move, it does not.

Title: Misty Explosion (move)

Misty Explosion (Japanese: ミストバースト Mist Burst) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM201 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Misty Explosion inflicts damage and causes the user to faint. Under Misty Terrain, if the user is on the ground, Misty Explosion's base power is raised by 1.5×, making it 150. Misty Explosion fails without causing the user to faint if a Pokémon with the Ability Damp is on the field. If used in a Max or Tera Raid Battle, Misty Explosion fails, and the user does not faint. Self-Destruct, Explosion, and Misty Explosion are the only three damaging moves whose battle animations play out even if they would miss or have no effect.

Title: Grassy Glide (move)

Grassy Glide (Japanese: グラススライダー Grass Slider) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM194 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Grassy Glide inflicts damage. If Grassy Terrain is in effect and the user is grounded upon its execution, this move's priority is increased by one. In Version 2.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Grassy Glide's power was further reduced to 55. In Pokémon UNITE, Grassy Glide is Tsareena's second move. It is obtained by evolving from Steenee at level 6 and upgrading Rapid Spin into it instead of Trop Kick. The user slides in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies hit. This is followed by an attack in the opposite direction, dealing damage and shoving enemies hit. If Queenly Majesty is active, this move grants the user a shield. At level 12, the move's damage is increased. Grassy Glide is the only move whose priority can vary because of its own effect. In Version 2.0.1 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Grassy Glide's base power was reduced from 60 to 55, making it the only move whose base power was changed via a patch to a game.

Title: Rising Voltage (move)

Rising Voltage (Japanese: ライジングボルト Rising Volt) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. In Generation IX, it is one of the signature moves of Raging Bolt. Rising Voltage deals damage. If the target is affected by Electric Terrain upon the move's execution, Rising Voltage's base power is doubled to 140.

Title: Terrain Pulse (move)

Terrain Pulse (Japanese: だいちのはどう Terrain Pulse) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. In Generation IX, it is the signature move of Smoliv's evolutionary line. Terrain Pulse deals damage. When there is no terrain active, Terrain Pulse is a Normal-type move. If the user is grounded under any type of terrain, Terrain Pulse's power doubles to 100 (type power-ups from the terrain will be put into effect in addition to this boost). Terrain Pulse's type and animation changes depending on the terrain at the time it is used. Electric-type if the battlefield is Electric Terrain. Psychic-type if the battlefield is Psychic Terrain. Terrain Pulse's power is increased by 50% when used by Pokémon with the Ability Mega Launcher. Terrain Pulse is unaffected by Normalize, Pixilate, Refrigerate, and Galvanize. Terrain Pulse is affected by Electrify. This causes Terrain Pulse to deal Electric damage, regardless of the terrain present. Its power will still be doubled to 100 if used in terrain. When used as a Max Move, Terrain Pulse will be displayed as Max Strike, but will change into the appropriately typed Max Move or G-Max Move upon execution, depending on the present terrain and whether or not the user is grounded when the move is actually executed.

Title: Skitter Smack (move)

Skitter Smack (Japanese: はいよるいちげき Creeping Strike) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM219 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Skitter Smack inflicts damage and lowers the target's Special Attack stat by one stage.

Title: Burning Jealousy (move)

Burning Jealousy (Japanese: しっとのほのお Flames of Jealousy) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM195 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Burning Jealousy inflicts damage to all adjacent opponents and will burn any opponent that has increased its stats during that turn. It ignores stat increases from Imposter when determining whether to burn an opponent. If the target is weak to Burning Jealousy and is holding a Weakness Policy, determining whether to burn an opponent happens before consuming the Weakness Policy. If the user has Sheer Force, then the power boost is applied regardless of whether it would have burnt the target or not.

Title: Lash Out (move)

Lash Out (Japanese: うっぷんばらし Vent Anger) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM199 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Lash Out deals damage. If any of the user's stats were lowered during the turn this move is used, its base power is doubled to 150. Lash Out does not power up if stat stages are modified directly due to an effect such as Haze, Clear Smog, or Topsy-Turvy.

Title: Poltergeist (move)

Poltergeist (Japanese: ポルターガイスト Poltergeist) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM198 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Poltergeist deals damage if the target is holding an item, after displaying the message "[target] is about to be attacked by its [item]!" If used when the target is not holding an item, the move fails. If used on a Pokémon weak to Ghost-type moves holding a Kasib Berry or a Weakness Policy, or a Pokémon holding a Red Card, Poltergeist will still do damage after the item has been consumed, but the item in question still takes effect. In Pokémon GO, Poltergeist is a Charged Attack that was made available on October 15, 2022. Poltergeist is the only Ghost-type move with an accuracy lower than 100%.

Title: Corrosive Gas (move)

Corrosive Gas (Japanese: ふしょくガス Corrosive Gas) is a non-damaging Poison-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. Corrosive Gas removes the targets' held items for the rest of the battle (even if switched out). Held items removed by Corrosive Gas cannot be recovered by Recycle or Harvest. Corrosive Gas does not affect an item held by Pokémon with the Sticky Hold Ability, or if it hits a Pokémon's substitute. It also does not affect a Griseous Orb, Drive, Memory, Rusted Sword, or Rusted Shield held by Giratina, Genesect, Silvally, Zacian, or Zamazenta, respectively. As no available Pokémon can learn Corrosive Gas, it can only be used through Metronome. This move's effect is the same as the secondary effect of Knock Off from Generation V onwards. Corrosive Gas is the only Move Tutor move introduced in The Isle of Armor to not be learnable by any Pokémon in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Coaching (move)

Coaching (Japanese: コーチング Coaching) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM213 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Coaching boosts the Attack and Defense of all allies (but not the user or allies in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move) by one stage each. It bypasses all forms of protection to affect the allies, including Crafty Shield. If used in a Single Battle or when no ally is present, Coaching will fail. In Pokémon UNITE, Coaching is one of Mew's possible second moves. It is obtained by reaching level 3 and choosing it over Light Screen and Agility. Coaching has the user move toward an ally Pokémon to grant it a shield and increase its basic attack speed. Each time Coaching is used, the cooldown of Mew's Electro Ball, Solar Beam, or Surf is reduced. Also, if Coaching is used on an ally Pokémon that hasn't been targeted by it for a set amount of time, the move's cooldown immediately resets. By reaching level 12, Coaching is upgraded into Coaching+, and its cooldown and the waiting time before using it again on a recently coached ally Pokémon without triggering its cooldown are reduced.

Title: Flip Turn (move)

Flip Turn (Japanese: クイックターン Quick Turn) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM196 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM008 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Flip Turn deals damage and then switches the user out. The user will not be switched out if the user is the only Pokémon in the party that is able to battle, if Flip Turn fails to hit the target, if Flip Turn triggers an opponent's Wimp Out or Emergency Exit, or if using Flip Turn ends the battle. Flip Turn will not switch the user out if the user is holding a Red Card or the target is holding an Eject Button. If the player's Pokémon knocks out an opposing Trainer's Pokémon by using Flip Turn, the replacement that the player sends out will not be considered to have battled for experience purposes, but if it holds an Amulet Coin or Luck Incense that item will be taken into account when calculating prize money. In switch-style battles, the player will still have the ability to switch Pokémon between opponent's Pokémon fainting. Flip Turn switches the user out even if it is under the effect of Ingrain, Arena Trap, Magnet Pull, Shadow Tag, Mean Look, or Block. A flip turn, also known as a tumble turn, is a turn technique in swimming that is performed during freestyle and backstroke races. Athletes use the flip turn to quickly and smoothly turn around in the water to change direction. Flip Turn's French name is a pun on eau (water) and au revoir (goodbye).

Title: Triple Axel (move)

Triple Axel (Japanese: トリプルアクセル Triple Axel) is a damage-dealing Ice-type multistrike move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM212 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM144 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Triple Axel inflicts damage, hitting the target up to three times per use. Its base power will increase by 20 with each successive strike, so the first, second, and third strikes have powers of 20, 40, and 60, respectively. Each of Triple Axel's strikes has a separate accuracy check. If any strike fails, the move ends. Assuming no modifications to accuracy or evasion, since each strike has 90% base accuracy, there is a: 72.9% chance that it will hit 3 times (for cumulative 120 base power), 8.1% chance that it will hit twice (for cumulative 60 base power), 9% chance that it will hit once (for 20 base power), With all three accuracy checks and base powers taken into account, the move's average effective power is 94.14. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact (such as Weak Armor or Stamina), each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. If the user has Skill Link or is holding Loaded Dice, the move will have only one accuracy check. If the first hit misses due to Disguise, the first hit will count as a strike, but the power of the two subsequent hits will be 20 and 40 respectively. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. This buddy move was known as B Triple Axel prior to version 2.38.0. In Pokémon UNITE, Triple Axel is Tsareena's first move. It is obtained by reaching level 5 as Steenee and upgrading Razor Leaf into it instead of Stomp. The user spin-kicks 3 times in the designated direction, dealing damage to enemies. Landed hits add a Triple Axel Buff stack. The stacks last for 5s and decay together. During the duration of the buff, the basic attack speed is increased depending upon the number of stacks (caps at 3 stacks). In addition, all damage dealt by basic attacks or Triple Axel during the buff is increased by 5% per stack (caps at 6 stacks). If Queenly Majesty is active, each kick heals the user. At level 10, this move's damage is increased. Along with Triple Kick and Population Bomb, it is one of only three multistrike moves where the chance to miss for successful hits is independent of the first hit. Triple Axel has the same description text as Triple Kick. Triple Axel may be based on a variation of the Axel jump with the same name in figure skating. Even though Triple Axel is referred to as a "consecutive three-kick attack", Seel, Dewgong, Bellossom, Milotic, Froslass, Cryogonal, the Popplio evolutionary line, Frosmoth, and Tatsugiri can all learn Triple Axel despite not having feet.

Title: Dual Wingbeat (move)

Dual Wingbeat (Japanese: ダブルウイング Double Wing) is a damage-dealing Flying-type multistrike move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM197 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM134 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Dual Wingbeat inflicts damage, hitting twice per use. Each strike has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Dual Wingbeat will hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. Counter will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact or a Rocky Helmet, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability or Rocky Helmet to activate twice. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has Weak Armor or Stamina, each strike will activate it. In Pokémon UNITE, Dual Wingbeat is one of Scyther's possible second moves. It is obtained by reaching level 5 and choosing to upgrade Fury Cutter into it instead of Bullet Punch. By doing so, Scyther will not evolve into Scizor. Dual Wingbeat has the user slash in front of itself with both of its scythes, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon in the X-shaped area of effect. If an opposing Pokémon is hit right in the center of the area of effect, the user's HP is restored. If Dual Wingbeat hits an opposing Pokémon, it can be used again within a set amount of time; doing so makes the user dash in the designated direction, dealing damage to opposing Pokémon it hits. The lower the opposing Pokémon's HP, higher will be the damage dealt by this dash. By reaching level 11, Dual Wingbeat is upgraded into Dual Wingbeat+, and the damage dealt by the move is increased. Dual Wingbeat is the only Flying-type multistrike move.

Title: Scorching Sands (move)

Scorching Sands (Japanese: ねっさのだいち Hot Sand Terrain) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is TM215 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Scorching Sands inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Upon execution, Scorching Sands will thaw the user if frozen (even if the move fails to hit the target). Scorching Sands also thaws a frozen target hit by it. Alongside Expanding Force, Scorching Sands was the final standard move to debut in Pokémon the Series.

Title: Jungle Healing (move)

Jungle Healing (Japanese: ジャングルヒール Jungle Heal) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is the signature move of Zarude. Jungle Healing restores the HP of the user and its allies by 25% of their maximum HP, and heals any non-volatile status conditions they may have. In Secrets of the Jungle, Koko used Jungle Healing, marking the first time a human has used a Pokémon move in the animated series.

Title: Wicked Blow (move)

Wicked Blow (Japanese: あんこくきょうだ Dark Blow) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is the signature move of Single Strike Style Urshifu. Wicked Blow inflicts damage and will always result in a critical hit unless the target has Battle Armor or Shell Armor.

Title: Surging Strikes (move)

Surging Strikes (Japanese: すいりゅうれんだ Stream Strikes) is a damage-dealing Water-type multistrike move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Isle of Armor. It is the signature move of Rapid Strike Style Urshifu. Surging Strikes inflicts damage, hitting its target three times per use. Each strike will always result in a critical hit unless the target has Battle Armor or Shell Armor. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. In Crackle!! Retrieve the Sword & Shield, Mustard's second Urshifu, which was soon after given to Henry and nicknamed Arman, was revealed to have learned Surging Strikes upon evolving.

Title: Thunder Cage (move)

Thunder Cage (Japanese: サンダープリズン Thunder Prison) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Regieleki. In addition to dealing damage, Thunder Cage inflicts 1/8 of the target's maximum HP as damage per turn for four to five turns upon use. It also traps the target, preventing switching and escape. If the user switches out, the target will be freed. If the user of Thunder Cage is holding a Grip Claw, the duration will always be 7 turns. If a Binding Band is held by the user, the damage done at the end of each turn will increase from 1/8 of the target's maximum HP to 1/6. Thunder Cage most likely draws inspiration from 19th and 20th-century inventions on electromagnetism, such as the Tesla coil or the Faraday cage.

Title: Dragon Energy (move)

Dragon Energy (Japanese: ドラゴンエナジー Dragon Energy) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Regidrago. Dragon Energy deals damage. It has 150 base power at maximum HP, but its base power decreases proportionally to the user's remaining HP. Specifically, its base power is equal to ⌊150×HPcurrentHPmax⌋. However, if this formula produces a value less than 1, the move's base power becomes 1 instead. In a battle with multiple opponents, Dragon Energy will target all adjacent opponents.

Title: Freezing Glare (move)

Freezing Glare (Japanese: いてつくしせん Freezing Glare) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Galarian Articuno. Freezing Glare inflicts damage and has a 10% chance to freeze the target. This buddy move was known as B Freezing Glare prior to version 2.38.0. Freezing Glare is the only Psychic-type move capable of freezing the target.

Title: Fiery Wrath (move)

Fiery Wrath (Japanese: もえあがるいかり Fiery Wrath) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Galarian Moltres. Fiery Wrath damages all opponents. It has a 20% chance to cause each target to flinch. This buddy move was known as B Fiery Wrath prior to version 2.38.0.

Title: Thunderous Kick (move)

Thunderous Kick (Japanese: らいめいげり Thunderclap Kick) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Galarian Zapdos. Thunderous Kick inflicts damage and lowers the target's Defense stat. This buddy move was known as B Thunderous Kick prior to version 2.38.0.

Title: Glacial Lance (move)

Glacial Lance (Japanese: ブリザードランス Blizzard Lance) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Ice Rider Calyrex. Glacial Lance deals damage to all adjacent opponents. In Generation VIII, when Glacial Lance is used by Ice Rider Calyrex, the animation is depicted as a spear being thrown at a chunk of ice. When used by other Pokémon, however, it is instead shown as a small beam of ice fired at the ice chunk. Glacial Lance can only be registered in the mobile version of Pokémon HOME's move Pokédex using a Smeargle that used Sketch to learn the move. This is possible in Pokemon Scarlet and Violet after The Indigo Disk DLC introduced Smeargle. It shares this trait with Astral Barrage, Behemoth Blade, Behemoth Bash, Ice Burn, and Freeze Shock.

Title: Astral Barrage (move)

Astral Barrage (Japanese: アストラルビット Astral Bit) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is the signature move of Shadow Rider Calyrex. Astral Barrage deals damage to all adjacent opponents. Astral Barrage is tied with Shadow Force for the highest base power of all Ghost-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. Astral Barrage can only be registered in the mobile version of Pokémon HOME's move Pokédex using a Smeargle that used Sketch to learn the move. This is possible in Pokemon Scarlet and Violet after The Indigo Disk DLC introduced Smeargle. It shares this trait with Glacial Lance, Behemoth Blade, Behemoth Bash, Ice Burn, and Freeze Shock.

Title: Eerie Spell (move)

Eerie Spell (Japanese: ぶきみなじゅもん Eerie Spell) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in The Crown Tundra. It is one of the signature moves of Galarian Slowking. Eerie Spell deals damage and causes 3 PP to be decreased from the last move the target used (if any) in the current battle. PP will not be deducted if the target faints from the move. Eerie Spell is a sound-based move. Eerie Spell can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute.

Title: Dire Claw (move)

Dire Claw (Japanese: フェイタルクロー Fatal Claw) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Sneasler. Dire Claw inflicts damage and has an increased critical-hit ratio. It has a 50% chance (80% chance in the strong style) to either poison the target, paralyze it, or make it drowsy. Dire Claw's power has been changed from 60 to 80. It has a 50% chance of leaving the target poisoned, paralyzed, or asleep (approximately a 16.67% chance for each status individually), and does not have an increased critical-hit ratio. Dire Claw is the only Poison-type move that can inflict paralysis or sleep.

Title: Psyshield Bash (move)

Psyshield Bash (Japanese: バリアーラッシュ Barrier Rush) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Stantler and Wyrdeer. Psyshield Bash inflicts damage and raises the user's defensive stats. Psyshield Bash inflicts damage and raises the user's Defense by one stage. A Stantler that has used Psyshield Bash in the agile style at least 20 times can evolve into Wyrdeer. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Psyshield Bash's description says it "may raise the user's defensive stats", despite it in fact having a 100% chance to do so. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Psyshield Bash is the only Evolution-inducing move introduced in Pokémon Legends: Arceus to lack an Evolution effect, as Stantler cannot evolve into Wyrdeer in the games.

Title: Power Shift (move)

Power Shift (Japanese: パワーシフト Power Shift) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. Power Shift switches the user's Attack and Special Attack stats with its Defense and Special Defense stats, respectively. Power Shift switches the user's raw Attack stat with its raw Defense stat. Stat modifiers are not swapped. Although Power Shift can be used in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, no Pokémon that can know the move naturally are in those games, and Metronome does not select this move. This makes it the only move that is legally usable in only a singular game.

Title: Stone Axe (move)

Stone Axe (Japanese: がんせきアックス Stone Axe) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Kleavor. Stone Axe inflicts damage and has an increased critical-hit ratio. It also leaves the target with splinters for 4 turns (Strong Style), 2 turns (Agile Style), or 3 turns (otherwise). Stone Axe inflicts damage and sets up Stealth Rock on the opposing side of the field. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. It does not have an increased critical-hit ratio.

Title: Springtide Storm (move)

Springtide Storm (Japanese: はるのあらし Spring Storm) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Enamorus. Springtide Storm inflicts damage. If used by Incarnate Forme Enamorus or a Pokémon that mimicked the move, it has a chance of boosting user's offensive and defensive stats. In its Therian Forme, it has a chance of lowering the target's offensive and defensive stats. Springtide Storm's base power was increased to 100. In a battle with multiple opponents, Springtide Storm will target all adjacent opponents. Enamorus's form no longer influences its additional effect; it always has a 30% chance of lowering each target's Attack by one stage. Unlike its variations Bleakwind Storm, Wildbolt Storm, and Sandsear Storm, Springtide Storm's accuracy is unaffected by rain, and its maximum PP did not change in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Mystical Power (move)

Mystical Power (Japanese: しんぴのちから Mysterious Power) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of the lake guardians. Mystical Power inflicts damage. If the sum of the user's current Attack and Sp. Atk stats is greater than or equal to the sum of its Defense and Sp. Def stats, the user's offensive stats will be raised after the move hits. Otherwise, its defensive stats will be raised. Mystical Power inflicts damage and raises the user's Special Attack by one stage.

Title: Raging Fury (move)

Raging Fury (Japanese: だいふんげき Great Infuriation) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. Raging Fury inflicts damage and the user becomes fixated on using this move until the battle ends, or until another move is chosen. Raging Fury's power and accuracy were changed to 120 and 100% respectively. Raging Fury inflicts damage for 2-3 turns, then the user becomes confused due to fatigue. It is disrupted if it is not successful due to missing, sleeping, paralysis, freeze, flinching, a protected target, or immunity. If a disruption occurs on what would have been the final, confusion-inducing turn of Raging Fury, the user will still become confused.

Title: Wave Crash (move)

Wave Crash (Japanese: ウェーブタックル Wave Tackle) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. Wave Crash inflicts damage and the user receives recoil damage equal to 33% of the damage done to the target and raises the user's action speed. Wave Crash is the only Water-type move that causes recoil damage. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Wave Crash has the lowest base power of all recoil moves (besides Struggle).

Title: Chloroblast (move)

Chloroblast (Japanese: クロロブラスト Chloroblast) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Electrode. Chloroblast inflicts damage, and the user takes damage equal to half of its maximum HP rounded up. It also lowers the user's action speed. Chloroblast has a base power of 150. The user takes recoil damage equal to half of its maximum HP rounded up unless the user has Magic Guard or Rock Head, or the target has Sap Sipper; its Speed is not lowered. This move's name may be a pun on chloroplast, a chlorophyll-rich organelle in plant and algae cells responsible for photosynthesis. Chloroblast is tied with Frenzy Plant for the highest base power of all Grass-type attacks, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. Chloroblast is the only move to have its recoil negated by Rock Head but not receive a boost from Reckless.

Title: Mountain Gale (move)

Mountain Gale (Japanese: ひょうざんおろし Iceberg Drop) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Avalugg. Mountain Gale inflicts damage and lowers the user's action speed. Mountain Gale's PP was changed to 10 and has a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch. Mountain Gale’s Japanese name, ひょうざんおろし “Hyōzan Oroshi” (Iceberg Wind), has a double meaning, asthe word “oroshi” can refer both to a wind blowing down a mountain (颪) and to the act of dropping something (下ろし). The first meaning is supported by the translations of the move in other languages, which consistently associate it with wind, while the second meaning is supported by the move’s animation, which shows chunks of ice being dropped onto the foe.

Title: Victory Dance (move)

Victory Dance (Japanese: しょうりのまい Victory Dance) is a non-damaging Fighting-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Lilligant. It can be thought of as a physical-oriented counterpart to Quiver Dance. Victory Dance raises the user's offensive and defensive stats, in addition to giving a 50% boost to the damage dealt by the user's moves. Victory Dance raises the user's Attack, Defense, and Speed stats by one stage each.

Title: Headlong Rush (move)

Headlong Rush (Japanese: ぶちかまし Headlong Rush) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. Headlong Rush inflicts damage and then lowers the user's defensive stats for three turns. Headlong Rush inflicts damage and then lowers the user's Defense stat and Special Defense stat by one stage each. Headlong Rush is tied with Precipice Blades for the highest base power of all Ground-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves. In Japanese, ぶちかまし Buchikamashi (Headlong Rush) is a sumo term which refers to the frontal collision of the two sumo wrestlers right at the beginning of a match. The inspiration for the move's Ground type is likely a play with the words 武 bu (bravery, courage), ち chi (ground), ちか chika (underground) and 噛まし kamashi (blow, hit). This is also the likely reason why this move is considered a punching move, and why it can be learned by Hariyama. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Charizard's forward smash is also known as Headlong Rush, though Charizard cannot learn the move in the core series games. This game was released prior to Headlong Rush's introduction as a move in the core series.

Title: Barb Barrage (move)

Barb Barrage (Japanese: どくばりセンボン Thousand Stingers) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Qwilfish, Hisuian Qwilfish, and Overqwil. Barb Barrage deals damage and has a 30% chance to poison the target. Its power is doubled if the target is affected by a non-volatile status condition. Barb Barrage's PP was decreased to 10. It has a 50% chance of poisoning the target, and its power is doubled if the target is already poisoned. In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, a Hisuian Qwilfish that has used Barb Barrage in the strong style at least 20 times can evolve into Overqwil. In Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, a Hisuian Qwilfish will evolve into Overqwil simply by leveling up while knowing this move. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, a Hisuan Qwilfish will evolve into Overqwil by having Barb Barrage hit 20 targets.

Title: Esper Wing (move)

Esper Wing (Japanese: オーラウイング Aura Wing) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Braviary. Esper Wing inflicts damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. It also raises the user's action speed. Esper Wing now has a base power of 80 and an accuracy of 100%. It has an increased critical hit ratio and raises the user's Speed by one stage. Description prior to Version 2.10.0 (from June 28, 2021): Has a very small chance of leaving the target confused.

Title: Bitter Malice (move)

Bitter Malice (Japanese: うらみつらみ Bitter Grudge) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Zorua and Zoroark. Bitter Malice inflicts damage and has a 30% chance (50% chance in the strong style) to leave the target with frostbite. The move's power is doubled if the target has a status condition. Bitter Malice's PP and power were changed to 10 and 75, respectively. It no longer powers up if the target has a status condition, and it instead lowers the target's Attack by one stage. Bitter Malice's Japanese name contains a possible pun, as Urami Tsurami is a rhyme.

Title: Shelter (move)

Shelter (Japanese: たてこもる Barricade) is a non-damaging Steel-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Sliggoo and Goodra, and in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, Goomy as well. Shelter raises the user's defensive stats in addition to making opponents' moves less likely to hit the user.

Title: Triple Arrows (move)

Triple Arrows (Japanese: ３ぼんのや Triple Arrows) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Decidueye. Triple Arrows inflicts damage. For three turns, it increases the user's critical hit ratio by two stages and decreases the target's defensive stats. Triple Arrows's PP was decreased to 10, its power was increased to 90, and it now has an increased critical hit ratio. It has a 50% chance of lowering the target's Defense by one stage and a 30% chance of causing the target to flinch.

Title: Infernal Parade (move)

Infernal Parade (Japanese: ひゃっきやこう Infernal Parade) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Typhlosion. Infernal Parade inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of leaving a burn. The move's power is doubled if the target has a status condition. Infernal Parade is the only Ghost-type move that can cause burns. The move's Japanese name, ひゃっきやこう Hyakki Yakō, is a reference to the idiom 百鬼夜行 hyakki yakō (literally "Hundred demons traveling at night"), a term from Japanese folklore similar to the concept of pandemonium in English.

Title: Ceaseless Edge (move)

Ceaseless Edge (Japanese: ひけん・ちえなみ Secret Sword - Thousand Waves) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Hisuian Samurott. Ceaseless Edge inflicts damage and has an increased critical-hit ratio. It also leaves the target with splinters for 4 turns (Strong Style), 2 turns (Agile Style), or 3 turns (otherwise). Ceaseless Edge inflicts damage and sets up one layer of Spikes on the opposing side of the field. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. It does not have an increased critical-hit ratio.

Title: Bleakwind Storm (move)

Bleakwind Storm (Japanese: こがらしあらし Wintry Wind Storm) is a damage-dealing Flying-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Tornadus. Bleakwind Storm inflicts damage and has a 30% chance (50% chance in the strong style) to leave the target with frostbite. Bleakwind Storm's PP and power were changed to 10 and 100, respectively. It now has a 30% chance of lowering each target's Speed by one stage. In a battle with multiple opponents, Bleakwind Storm will target all adjacent opponents. When used during rain, Bleakwind Storm bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Pokémon GO, Bleakwind Storm is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 10, 2024.

Title: Wildbolt Storm (move)

Wildbolt Storm (Japanese: かみなりあらし Thunderous Storm) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Thundurus. Wildbolt Storm inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Wildbolt Storm's PP and power were changed to 10 and 100, respectively. It now has a 20% chance of paralyzing each target. In a battle with multiple opponents, Wildbolt Storm will target all adjacent opponents. When used during rain, Wildbolt Storm bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Pokémon GO, Wildbolt Storm is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 17, 2024.

Title: Sandsear Storm (move)

Sandsear Storm (Japanese: ねっさのあらし Hot-Sand Storm) is a damage-dealing Ground-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Landorus. Sandsear Storm inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Sandsear Storm's PP was raised to 10 and its base power was increased to 100. It now has a 20% chance to burn each target. In battles with multiple opponents, Sandsear Storm targets all adjacent opponents. When used during rain, Sandsear Storm bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. In Pokémon GO, Sandsear Storm is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 24, 2024. Sandsear Storm's description in Pokémon Legends: Arceus states that it "leaves the target with a burn", which erroneously implies that its additional effect is guaranteed. This error is not present in its variations' description.

Title: Lunar Blessing (move)

Lunar Blessing (Japanese: みかづきのいのり Crescent Prayer) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is one of the signature moves of Cresselia. Lunar Blessing heals the user of any status conditions and restores a variable quantity of the user's maximum HP. It also obscures the user, making attacks more likely to miss. Lunar Blessing's PP was reduced to 5. Lunar Blessing restores the HP of the user and its allies by 25% of their maximum HP, and heals any non-volatile status conditions they may have.

Title: Take Heart (move)

Take Heart (Japanese: ブレイブチャージ Brave Charge) is a non-damaging Psychic-type move introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. It is the signature move of Phione and one of the signature moves of Manaphy. Take Heart cures the user of all status conditions and raises its offensive and defensive stats for four turns. Take Heart raises the user's Special Attack and Special Defense stats by one stage each, and heals any non-volatile status conditions the user may have. Take Heart is the last Generation VIII move in index number order.

Title: Tera Blast (move)

Tera Blast (Japanese: テラバースト Tera Burst) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is TM171 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Tera Blast deals damage. If the user's Attack stat is higher than its Special Attack stat, Tera Blast becomes a physical move when Terastallized; otherwise, it remains a special move. For determining which stat is higher, stat stage-modifiers are taken into account, but other effects (e.g. held items such as a Choice Band, Abilities such as Huge Power, etc.) are not. This is determined when the move is performed (not when it is selected), so for example the move's category may change mid-turn if the opponent goes first and uses a move like Charm. If the user has Terastallized, Tera Blast's type becomes the same as their Tera Type, is unaffected by moves and Abilities that change its type, and has a different animation depending on the move's type (except if their Tera Type is Normal, where the animation stays the same whether Terastallized or not). Gale Wings does not increase the priority of Flying-type Tera Blast. If the user has Terastallized into the Stellar type, it deals supereffective damage against Terastallized targets and neutral damage against all other targets. Moreover, its base power is 100 instead of 80 and it lowers the user’s Attack and Sp. Atk stats by one stage. If the user is not Terastallized, Tera Blast will be affected by Abilities such as Galvanize, but if the user Terastallized into a Normal type, Tera Blast will remain Normal. Rainbow Jewel Tera Blast, Ancient Indigo Disk Tera Blast: Despite being made of Terastal energy and being responsible for the Terastal phenomenon, Terapagos cannot learn Tera Blast. It can, however, use the move in Pokémon Masters EX, creating a game move error. Tera Blast is the first Generation IX move in index number order. Tera Blast is the only move to have a different description depending on its type. Tera Blast hints at Glimmet and Glimmora's implied connection to the Terastal phenomenon, as eight Glimmet Crystals are needed to make the TM.

Title: Silk Trap (move)

Silk Trap (Japanese: スレッドトラップ Thread Trap) is a non-damaging Bug-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Spidops. Silk Trap protects the user from all effects of physical and special moves that target it during the turn it is used. If Silk Trap blocks an attack that would make contact with the user, the attacker's Speed stat is lowered by one stage. (Moves that are blocked do not activate other effects that require making contact, like Rocky Helmet or Rough Skin.) If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Silk Trap will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is divided by 3. Some moves will do damage through Silk Trap. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Silk Trap. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Silk Trap. Silk Trap is an increased priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn.

Title: Axe Kick (move)

Axe Kick (Japanese: かかとおとし Axe Kick) is a damaging-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IX. Axe Kick inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of confusing the target. If it misses, the user takes crash damage equal to half of its maximum HP. The user will also take crash damage if this move is used on a protected target, or if the target is immune to this move. This is the first crash damage move introduced since Generation I.

Title: Last Respects (move)

Last Respects (Japanese: おはかまいり Visit to the Grave) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation IX. Last Respects inflicts damage. Its base power, which starts at 50, is increased by an additional 50 each time a Pokémon on the user's side faints during a battle. Revived Pokémon who then faint again also count, with the base power capping at 5,050 after Pokémon faint 100 times in the same battle. Last Respects can reach the highest base power of all moves, capping at 5,050. It is the only move whose base power can be more than 3 digits long.

Title: Lumina Crash (move)

Lumina Crash (Japanese: ルミナコリジョン Lumina Collision) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Espathra. Lumina Crash inflicts damage and lowers the target's Special Defense by two stages.

Title: Order Up (move)

Order Up (Japanese: いっちょうあがり Order Up) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Dondozo. Order Up inflicts damage. If the user has a Tatsugiri in its mouth via the Commander Ability, the move's animation will change and the user will gain a stat boost based on Tatsugiri's form: Order Up is boosted by Sheer Force even if Commander is not activated, and increases to stats (if any) apply normally. Prior to Version 1.2.0 of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Order Up would increase the stats of a Dondozo with a Tatsugiri even if the move was negated (eg. via Protect). This was due to a bug and was fixed in the Version 1.2.0 update.

Title: Jet Punch (move)

Jet Punch (Japanese: ジェットパンチ Jet Punch) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Palafin. Jet Punch inflicts damage. It has a priority of +1, so is used before all moves that do not have increased priority. Due to an oversight, Jet Punch used to have its damage boosted by Sheer Force despite not having any additional effects. This was later patched.

Title: Spicy Extract (move)

Spicy Extract (Japanese: ハバネロエキス Habanero Extract) is a non-damaging Grass-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Scovillain. Spicy Extract raises the target's Attack and lowers the target's Defense, each by two stages. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly.

Title: Spin Out (move)

Spin Out (Japanese: ホイールスピン Wheel Spin) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Varoom and Revavroom. Spin Out inflicts damage and lowers the user's Speed by two stages. Spin Out has a unique animation if it is used by a Starmobile. It shares this trait with Steel Roller.

Title: Population Bomb (move)

Population Bomb (Japanese: ネズミざん Proliferation) is a damage-dealing Normal-type multistrike move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Tandemaus and Maushold. Population Bomb inflicts damage, hitting the target up to ten times per use. Each of Population Bomb's strikes has a separate accuracy check. If any strike fails, the move ends. If the user is holding Loaded Dice, only one accuracy check is performed, and it will hit between four and ten times (with an even chance of each number of hits). If the user has Skill Link, the move will have only one accuracy check and hit the maximum ten times. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. If the target has an Ability that activates upon contact, each strike counts individually, enabling the Ability to activate multiple times. If the target is holding a Rocky Helmet, the user is damaged for each strike. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1. Assuming no modifications to accuracy or evasion, this move's average effective power is ~117.24, with an average number of hits of ~6, and the chances of it hitting at least a certain number of times are as follows: Along with Triple Kick and Triple Axel, Population Bomb is one of only three multistrike moves whose chances to miss for successive hits are independent of the first hit. The Japanese name for the move can be read as both ねずみ算 nezumizan (to multiply like mice; literally "mouse mathematics", a common arithmetic problem) and ねずみ斬 nezumizan (mouse cut), explaining why the move is strengthened by Sharpness. The English name for the move could be inspired by the 1968 book The Population Bomb by W, which incorrectly predicted worldwide famine and death due to overpopulation that would arise in the 1970s.

Title: Ice Spinner (move)

Ice Spinner (Japanese: アイススピナー Ice Spinner) is a damage-dealing Ice-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is TM124 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Ice Spinner inflicts damage and removes any terrain present on the battlefield. However, if the user faints due to its held Life Orb, the target's held Rocky Helmet, or the target having the Ability Rough Skin or Iron Barbs, or the user is forced to switch out due to the target's Red Card, the terrain is not removed. The evolutionary lines of Seel, Shellder, Pineco, Dunsparce, Bronzor, Popplio, and Mareanie, plus Glalie, Froslass, Cryogonal, Hisuian Sliggoo, and Frosmoth, can all learn this move — in which the user "covers its feet in thin ice" — despite not having feet.

Title: Glaive Rush (move)

Glaive Rush (Japanese: きょけんとつげき Giant Sword Assault) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Baxcalibur. Glaive Rush inflicts damage. If the move hits, until the next time the user acts, any attacks directed at the user (including OHKO moves) deal double the damage (not applicable to moves that deal direct damage) and bypass accuracy and evasion checks to always hit. The effect ends if a different move is used. This move is likely a reference to the Godzilla film Godzilla vs. Hedorah, which features Godzilla propelling himself in a similar using his atomic breath, while the scene was invented as a presumed reference to Gamera by the director Yoshimitsu Banno who later launched a scrapped Gamera project, which was subsequently redeveloped into the 2014 film Godzilla.

Title: Revival Blessing (move)

Revival Blessing (Japanese: さいきのいのり Recovery Prayer) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. Revival Blessing allows the player to select a fainted Pokémon in the party; the selected Pokémon will be revived, and half of its maximum HP will be restored. Revival Blessing will fail if there are no fainted Pokémon in the party. This move cannot be copied by Sketch. Revival Blessing cannot be used if the user is under the effect of Heal Block caused by Psychic Noise. Revival Blessing is one of two moves (excluding Struggle) whose base PP is not a multiple of 5, the other being Sketch. Additionally, both Sketch and Revival Blessing cannot have their maximum PP increased. The only Pokémon that can learn this move, Pawmot and Rabsca, learn it upon Evolution, with the condition for their Evolution being leveling up while outside of their Poké Ball after walking 1,000 steps using the Let's Go! feature. Not even Smeargle can learn this move, as Sketch fails to copy it. Revival Blessing is the only game mechanic that can revive a fainted Pokémon during a battle without using items from the Bag. Consequently, it is the only game mechanic that can revive a Pokémon in battles against other players in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.

Title: Salt Cure (move)

Salt Cure (Japanese: しおづけ Salting) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Naclstack and Garganacl. Salt Cure inflicts 1/8 of the target's maximum HP as damage per turn in addition to the damage dealt when it is used. If a Steel and/or Water type is affected by Salt Cure, the amount of damage per turn is ¼ of its maximum HP. The effect is removed when the afflicted Pokémon is switched out. Salt Cure cannot be passed by Baton Pass. Team Star's Starmobiles are unaffected by the secondary effects of Salt Cure.

Title: Triple Dive (move)

Triple Dive (Japanese: トリプルダイブ Triple Dive) is a damage-dealing Water-type multistrike move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Wugtrio. Triple Dive inflicts damage, hitting the target three times per use. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon has a maximum HP of 1.

Title: Mortal Spin (move)

Mortal Spin (Japanese: キラースピン Killer Spin) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation IX. Mortal Spin inflicts damage and then removes any binding effects and Leech Seed from the user, as well as entry hazards from the user's side of the field (unless the user has fainted as a result of the move, such as from Rough Skin). It also leaves each target poisoned. In a battle with multiple opponents, it will target all adjacent opponents. In Over the Top!, Geeta's Glimmora was mentioned to know Mortal Spin. However, before it could use the move, it was interrupted by Liko's Floragato using Sucker Punch, forcing Geeta to command the use of Spiky Shield instead. Mortal Spin's Japanese name, キラースピン Kirā Supin, may be a pun on both キラキラ kirakira (onomatopoeia for glittering) and キラー kirā (killer), like with Glimmora's Japanese name. In French, Italian, and Chinese, the "glittering" meaning is kept instead of the "killer" meaning.

Title: Doodle (move)

Doodle (Japanese: うつしえ Trace) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Grafaiai. Doodle changes the Abilities of the user and any ally to the targeted Pokémon's Ability. Doodle will fail if either the target, the user, or the user's ally have any of the following Abilities: As One, Battle Bond, Comatose, Commander, Disguise, Gulp Missile, Ice Face, Multitype, Poison Puppeteer, Power Construct, Protosynthesis, Quark Drive, RKS System, Schooling, Shields Down, Stance Change, Zen Mode, or Zero to Hero. It will also fail if the target has Receiver, but not if the user or its ally has it.

Title: Fillet Away (move)

Fillet Away (Japanese: みをけずる Cut to the Bone) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Veluza. Fillet Away deducts half of the user's maximum HP (rounded down) from its current HP and, in return, it raises the user's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed stats by two stages each. Fillet Away fails if the user's current HP is less than or equal to half its maximum, or if the user's aforementioned stats are all at +6 stages. The move's Japanese name, みをけずる (Mi o Kezuru), which can be translated literally as 'to chip away at one's body,' has the figurative meaning of 'enduring severe hardships,' generally in order to achieve a goal. Similarly, the move's European Spanish name, Deslome, can be understood as both 'cutting fish fillets' or 'wearing one's back out', normally from working too hard.

Title: Kowtow Cleave (move)

Kowtow Cleave (Japanese: ドゲザン Kowtow Slash) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Kingambit. Kowtow Cleave inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Kowtow Cleave is based on dogeza, which is kneeling to a person of higher status. The word "kowtow" more accurately refers to a Chinese act that is similar to dogeza.

Title: Flower Trick (move)

Flower Trick (Japanese: トリックフラワー Trick Flower) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Meowscarada. Flower Trick inflicts damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. It will always result in a critical hit unless the target has Battle Armor or Shell Armor. In Pokémon GO, Flower Trick is a Charged Attack that has been available since January 5, 2025.

Title: Torch Song (move)

Torch Song (Japanese: フレアソング Flare Song) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Skeledirge. Torch Song is a sound-based move. It inflicts damage and raises the user's Special Attack by one stage. Torch Song can hit Pokémon even if they are behind a substitute. In Pokémon GO, Torch Song is a Charged Attack that has been available since March 8, 2025. Torch Song is the only Fire-type sound-based move.

Title: Aqua Step (move)

Aqua Step (Japanese: アクアステップ Aqua Step) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Quaquaval. Aqua Step inflicts damage and raises the user's Speed by one stage if the move is successful. Clavell & Quaquaval's passive skill P-Move Stat Raises ×2 makes this move boost their Speed by two stat ranks after each use. In Pokémon GO, Aqua Step is a Charged Attack that has been available since July 20, 2025

Title: Raging Bull (move)

Raging Bull (Japanese: レイジングブル Raging Bull) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Tauros. Raging Bull removes Light Screen, Reflect, and Aurora Veil from the target's side of the field (even if it targets an ally), then inflicts damage. If the move fails to hit the target, the effects of the screens are not removed. If the user is Paldean Tauros, the move's type changes depending on its form. Combat Breed's Raging Bull is Fighting-type, Blaze Breed's Raging Bull is Fire-type, and Aqua Breed's Raging Bull is Water-type. If used by a Pokémon other than Paldean Tauros, the move is Normal-type.

Title: Make It Rain (move)

Make It Rain (Japanese: ゴールドラッシュ Gold Rush) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Gholdengo. Make It Rain inflicts damage and lowers the user's Special Attack by one stage. In a battle with multiple opponents, Make It Rain will target all adjacent opponents. For each target the move hits, coins are scattered on the ground. $5 multiplied by the user's level are scattered each time. No coins are scattered in Tera Raid Battles. If the player wins the battle, they will pick up all the scattered coins and receive the total money amount. The amount of money from Make It Rain is doubled if any of the player's Pokémon takes part in battle while holding an Amulet Coin or Luck Incense; however, this effect can only be applied once, regardless of how many additional Pokémon hold this item. Having more than one Pokémon holding the item does not increase the money amount any further. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, coins scattered by Make It Rain are picked up immediately. Make It Rain does not scatter coins when hitting objects like Mega Crystals. The amount of money from Make It Rain is unaffected by the Gold Canari Plush. Sygna Suit Lear & Gholdengo's passive skill Golden Authority prevents this move from lowering their Sp. Atk after use. "Make it rain" is an idiom in the English language which means to make wealth or to show off wealth; in the latter sense, it often refers to the act of throwing money into the air, to make it appear as if it is raining money. Due to this, despite its English name, this move does not actually summon rain. The move's rename in English from "Gold Rush" may be due to a naming conflict with G-Max Gold Rush, a G-Max Move introduced in Pokémon Sword and Shield.

Title: Psyblade (move)

Psyblade (Japanese: サイコブレイド Psycho Blade) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation IX. It is the signature move of Iron Leaves. Psyblade inflicts damage. If there is Electric Terrain on the field, its base power is increased to 120, whether or not the user is grounded. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Among the signature moves of the six Paradox Pokémon connected to Legendary Pokémon, Psyblade is the only one to not match its user's primary type, namely Grass. Psyblade is the only non-Electric-type move to benefit from a power boost from Electric Terrain.

Title: Hydro Steam (move)

Hydro Steam (Japanese: ハイドロスチーム Hydro Steam) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced during Generation IX. It is the signature move of Walking Wake. Hydro Steam inflicts damage. If used under harsh sunlight, it receives a 50% damage boost, unlike all other Water-type moves, which would receive a 50% damage reduction in harsh sunlight instead. If used by a Pokémon holding a Utility Umbrella during harsh sunlight, it does not receive the 50% damage boost, instead being affected by the standard 50% damage reduction for Water-type moves. Hydro Steam is the only non-Fire-type move to benefit from a power boost from harsh sunlight.

Title: Ruination (move)

Ruination (Japanese: カタストロフィ Catastrophe) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of the treasures of ruin. Ruination deals damage equal to 50% of the opponent's remaining HP, rounded down. It always deals at least 1 HP of damage.

Title: Collision Course (move)

Collision Course (Japanese: アクセルブレイク Accel Break) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Koraidon. Collision Course inflicts damage. If the move is super effective on the target, its damage is increased by roughly 33% (or more precisely, by a factor of 5461/4096).

Title: Electro Drift (move)

Electro Drift (Japanese: イナズマドライブ Lightning Drive) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Miraidon. Electro Drift inflicts damage. If the move is super effective on the target, its damage is increased by roughly 33% (or more precisely, by a factor of 5461/4096).

Title: Shed Tail (move)

Shed Tail (Japanese: しっぽきり Tail Shedding) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. Shed Tail creates a substitute at the cost of half of the user's maximum HP (rounded up), then switches the user out. The created substitute has 1/4 of the user's maximum HP. The Pokémon that switches in will then have the substitute. If the user is holding a Berry that would trigger in response to Shed Tail (such as a Sitrus Berry), it eats its held Berry before switching out. Shed Tail fails (and will not switch the user out) if the user already has a substitute, if the user has no teammates to switch to, or if the user's HP is less than or equal to 50% of its maximum HP. The substitute will not protect the sent out Pokémon against entry hazards. The Japanese name of this move, しっぽきり Shippokiri, comes from the idiomatic expression 蜥蜴の尻尾切り tokage no shippo kiri (lit. cutting lizard's tail), which means to shift one's work or responsibility onto a subordinate.

Title: Chilly Reception (move)

Chilly Reception (Japanese: さむいギャグ Cold Gag) is a non-damaging Ice-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Slowking and one of the signature moves of Galarian Slowking. Chilly Reception creates snow on the battlefield and switches the user out. Snow instigated by this move lasts five turns (or eight turns if the user is holding an Icy Rock). The user will still switch out even if there is already snow on the field when the move is used. If there are no other teammates to switch to, it will only change the weather to snow. If the move is selected directly, before using the move, the following message is displayed: "<Pokémon> is preparing to tell a chillingly bad joke!" even if the move fails to execute. Using this move through a move that calls another move will not display the aforementioned message. In Japanese, Korean, and Chinese, a "cold" joke is often used to refer to a joke that has no punchline, or one that fails to get a laugh from its audience. An unamused audience may remark that the room is suddenly cold. A similar joke in the English language is to pretend to only hear crickets respond to a bad joke. An exaggeration of this response in media, particularly in comedies, is to have the room literally become cold as a result of a bad joke. This is reflected in-game by the user creating a snowstorm, then leaving the battlefield, presumably ashamed of its terrible joke.

Title: Tidy Up (move)

Tidy Up (Japanese: おかたづけ Tidy Up) is a non-damaging Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. Tidy Up raises the user's Attack stat and Speed stat by one stage each. It also clears away substitutes, Spikes, Toxic Spikes, Stealth Rock, and Sticky Web on both the user's and opponent's side of the field. The user's stats will still be raised even if there are no traps or substitutes to remove.

Title: Snowscape (move)

Snowscape (Japanese: ゆきげしき Snowscape) is a non-damaging Ice-type move introduced in Generation IX, replacing Hail from earlier generations. It is TM052 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. When Snowscape is used, a snowstorm will begin on the field. This effect will last for 5 turns. This clears any other type of weather, but will fail if there is already a snowstorm. However, it cannot override weather that occurs in the overworld. All Ice-type Pokémon have their Defense raised by 50% for the duration of the snowstorm. Pokémon with the Ice Body Ability recover 1⁄16 of their maximum HP each round. Pokémon with the Snow Cloak Ability increase their evasiveness by 20%. Pokémon with the Slush Rush Ability have their Speed doubled. If an Icy Rock is held by the Pokémon using Snowscape at the time of use, the duration of Snowscape will increase from 5 to 8 turns. The snowstorm allows Aurora Veil to be used. While Snowscape is in effect, Synthesis, Morning Sun, and Moonlight will recover only ¼ of the user's maximum HP. Additionally, the move Weather Ball becomes Ice-type.

Title: Pounce (move)

Pounce (Japanese: とびつく Pounce) is a damage-dealing Bug-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is TM021 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Pounce inflicts damage and lowers the target's Speed by one stage.

Title: Trailblaze (move)

Trailblaze (Japanese: くさわけ Trailblazer) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is TM020 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM115 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Trailblaze inflicts damage and raises the user's Speed by one stage.

Title: Chilling Water (move)

Chilling Water (Japanese: ひやみず Cold Water) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is TM022 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet and TM110 in Pokémon Legends: Z-A. Chilling Water inflicts damage and lowers the target's Attack by one stage. In Pokémon GO, Chilling Water is a Charged Attack that has been available since September 14, 2025.

Title: Hyper Drill (move)

Hyper Drill (Japanese: ハイパードリル Hyper Drill) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Dunsparce and Dudunsparce. Hyper Drill inflicts damage. It bypasses the effects of Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, King's Shield, Baneful Bunker, Silk Trap, and Burning Bulwark, but does not lift the effects of these moves. A Dunsparce that knows this move will evolve into Dudunsparce when leveled up.

Title: Twin Beam (move)

Twin Beam (Japanese: ツインビーム Twin Beam) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type multistrike move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Girafarig and Farigiraf. Twin Beam inflicts damage, hitting twice per use. Each strike has an equal chance to be a critical hit. Twin Beam will hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. Mirror Coat will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. Sturdy will activate with each hit if the defending Pokémon is a Shedinja. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has Stamina, each strike will activate it. A Girafarig that knows Twin Beam evolves into Farigiraf when leveled up. Twin Beam is the only Psychic-type multistrike move.

Title: Rage Fist (move)

Rage Fist (Japanese: ふんどのこぶし Rage Fist) is a damage-dealing Ghost-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Primeape and Annihilape. Rage Fist inflicts damage. Its power increases by 50 each time the user is hit during the battle by a move that causes direct damage, up to a maximum of 350 (after 6 hits). This includes moves used by either allies or opponents and includes moves that do not actually deplete HP, such as those that activate a Disguise. However, the power of Rage Fist does not increase if the user attacks itself due to confusion, nor does it increase when the user's substitute is struck. Each strike from a multistrike move counts as one hit. Switching out or fainting does not reset the hit counter. Transforming copies the target's hit counter. A Primeape that has used Rage Fist (and had PP deducted with each use whenever or not the move dealt damage) at least 20 times evolves into Annihilape when leveled up, or, in Pokémon Legends: Z-A, gains the option to evolve. Extra PP lost through effects such as Pressure does not count as extra uses. In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Rage Fist does not have to hit Pokémon to evolve Primeape. In Pokémon GO, Rage Fist is a Charged Attack that has been available since November 10, 2024.

Title: Armor Cannon (move)

Armor Cannon (Japanese: アーマーキャノン Armor Cannon) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Armarouge. Armor Cannon deals damage and lowers the user's Defense and Special Defense stats by one stage each. Armor Cannon is the only variation of Superpower to be a special move.

Title: Bitter Blade (move)

Bitter Blade (Japanese: むねんのつるぎ Mortification Sword) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Ceruledge. Bitter Blade inflicts damage, and it restores the user's HP by half of the damage dealt. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30%. Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. Bitter Blade is the only Fire-type HP-draining move. Bitter Blade was the first Generation IX move seen in the animated series. As shown in Riding the Waves, if Bitter Blade is used to cut food it will suck out its nutrients but the food will still be edible.

Title: Double Shock (move)

Double Shock (Japanese: でんこうそうげき Double Lightning Attack) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Pawmot. If used by an Electric-type Pokémon, Double Shock will inflict damage to the target and cause the user to lose its Electric type. Double Shock fails if the user is not Electric-type, making the move always fail after the first use until the Pokémon regains its Electric type (either by switching out, or other type changing effects such as through Protean or Reflect Type). If the user is a pure Electric-type Pokémon, it will become typeless. The Pokémon's type reverts to its default types if it is switched out. A Pokémon with Protean or Libero cannot successfully use Double Shock unless it already is Electric-type; otherwise, Double Shock will fail and Protean or Libero will not activate. A Pokémon that has Terastallized into its Electric Tera Type will not lose its Electric type (although the message "The <wild/opposing> <Pokémon> used up all its electricity!" is still displayed). Therefore, a Terastallized Pokémon can use Double Shock multiple times in a row without the need to switch out. This buddy move was known as B Double Shock prior to version 2.38.0. If the player views the summary of a Pokémon that is currently typeless, such as through the use of Double Shock, the game may crash.

Title: Gigaton Hammer (move)

Gigaton Hammer (Japanese: デカハンマー Huge Hammer) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of Tinkaton. Gigaton Hammer inflicts damage. The user cannot select Gigaton Hammer in succession unless the move failed. If the player attempts to use Gigaton Hammer twice in a row, they will be prevented from doing so, and will be allowed to select another move. Once another move is used, Gigaton Hammer can be used again. If the user cannot select another move (due to Choice items or having no other usable moves), it will use Struggle every other turn. Instruct and Sleep Talk allow Gigaton Hammer to be used twice in a row. Encore allows Gigaton Hammer to be used twice in a row, but on subsequent turns of the Encore the user will be forced to Struggle. Gigaton Hammer has the highest base power of all Steel-type moves, excluding Z-Moves. Gigaton Hammer has a different animation when used by a Pokémon other than Tinkaton. In this case, its animation is similar to those of Ice Hammer and Dragon Hammer, but with a silver hammer instead of blue or purple, respectively.

Title: Comeuppance (move)

Comeuppance (Japanese: ほうふく Retaliation) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IX. Comeuppance returns 1.5 times the damage dealt by the foe's last attack. Unlike Counter or Mirror Coat, Comeuppance does not require specifically physical or special damage sources and Comeuppance does not have decreased priority; if the user acts before it is hit by an opponent's damaging move, Comeuppance will fail. The move also fails if the user's substitute is hit instead. In battles involving multiple Pokémon, Comeuppance will hit the last opponent that dealt damage to the user. Comeuppance cannot affect ally Pokémon. However, if the last Pokémon to hit the user faints before the user moves, the remaining enemy Pokémon will be hit instead, like with a regular single-target damaging move (using the damage taken from the move of the now-fainted Pokémon that had hit the user). Comeuppance has the same description text as Metal Burst.

Title: Aqua Cutter (move)

Aqua Cutter (Japanese: アクアカッター Aqua Cutter) is a damage-dealing Water-type move introduced in Generation IX. Aqua Cutter inflicts damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Aqua Cutter is the only physical Water-type move that does not make contact, outside of Z-Moves and Max Moves.

Title: Blazing Torque (move)

Blazing Torque (Japanese: バーンアクセル Burn Accel) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of the Schedar Starmobile. Blazing Torque inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of burning the target. Encore, Instruct, Mimic, and Sketch fail if the target's last used move was Blazing Torque. Copycat fails if the last used move was Blazing Torque. Only the Revavroom in the Schedar Squad's Starmobile can use this move.

Title: Wicked Torque (move)

Wicked Torque (Japanese: ダークアクセル Dark Accel) is a damage-dealing Dark-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of the Segin Starmobile. Wicked Torque inflicts damage and has a 10% chance of putting the target to sleep. Encore, Instruct, Mimic, and Sketch fail if the target's last used move was Wicked Torque. Copycat fails if the last used move was Wicked Torque. Only the Revavroom in the Segin Squad's Starmobile can use this move.

Title: Noxious Torque (move)

Noxious Torque (Japanese: ポイズンアクセル Poison Accel) is a damage-dealing Poison-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of the Navi Starmobile. Noxious Torque inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of poisoning the target. Encore, Instruct, Mimic, and Sketch fail if the target's last used move was Noxious Torque. Copycat fails if the last used move was Noxious Torque. Only the Revavroom in the Navi Squad's Starmobile can use this move.

Title: Combat Torque (move)

Combat Torque (Japanese: ファイトアクセル Fight Accel) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of the Caph Starmobile. Combat Torque inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of paralyzing the target. Encore, Instruct, Mimic, and Sketch fail if the target's last used move was Combat Torque. Copycat fails if the last used move was Combat Torque. Only the Revavroom in the Caph Squad's Starmobile can use this move.

Title: Magical Torque (move)

Magical Torque (Japanese: マジカルアクセル Magical Accel) is a damage-dealing Fairy-type move introduced in Generation IX. It is the signature move of the Ruchbah Starmobile. Magical Torque inflicts damage and has a 30% chance of confusing the target. Encore, Instruct, Mimic, and Sketch fail if the target's last used move was Magical Torque. Copycat fails if the last used move was Magical Torque. Only the Revavroom in the Ruchbah Squad's Starmobile can use this move. Prior to the release of The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero expansion for Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Magical Torque was the only Fairy-type move to have been introduced in Generation IX. Magical Torque is the only physical Fairy-type move that does not make contact, outside of Z-Moves and Max Moves, though it is not accessible in regular gameplay.

Title: Blood Moon (move)

Blood Moon (Japanese: ブラッドムーン Blood Moon) is a damage-dealing Normal-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature move of Bloodmoon Ursaluna. Blood Moon inflicts damage. The user cannot select Blood Moon in succession unless the move failed. If the player attempts to use Blood Moon twice in a row, they will be prevented from doing so, and will be allowed to select another move. Once another move is used, Blood Moon can be used again. If the user cannot select another move (due to Choice items or having no other usable moves), it will use Struggle every other turn. Instruct and Sleep Talk allow Blood Moon to be used twice in a row. Encore allows Blood Moon to be used twice in a row, but on subsequent turns of the Encore, the user will be forced to Struggle.

Title: Matcha Gotcha (move)

Matcha Gotcha (Japanese: シャカシャカほう Rustle-Rustle Cannon) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature move of Sinistcha. Matcha Gotcha deals damage and restores the user's HP equal to up to half of the damage dealt. It also has a 20% chance of burning targets. Matcha Gotcha hits both opponents in a Double Battle. If the target has the Ability Liquid Ooze, the user will lose the amount of HP it would have gained instead. If Matcha Gotcha is used in a Double Battle when one of the opponents has the ability Liquid Ooze, the user will take damage from that ability first, and then heal of HP from the other opponent. If the user is holding a Big Root, the HP restored is increased by 30% (making the restored HP 65% of the damage dealt). Big Root does not increase the damage dealt. Upon execution, Matcha Gotcha will thaw the user if frozen. Matcha Gotcha also thaws a frozen target hit by it. HP-draining move that can target all adjacent opponents without affecting allies. Despite its Japanese name containing ほう "cannon", it is not one of the ball and bomb moves.

Title: Syrup Bomb (move)

Syrup Bomb (Japanese: みずあめボム Mizuame Bomb) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature move of Dipplin and one of the signature moves of Hydrapple. Syrup Bomb inflicts damage and lowers the target's Speed stat by one stage each turn, for the next three turns. It does not affect targets with Bulletproof. If the move's user leaves the field, the effect will end immediately. The game uses a unique animation when the target's Speed stat is lowered. Syrup Bomb has a different appearance if the user is a Shiny Pokémon, a distinction shared with Mind Blown and Dragon Darts. Only Shiny Dipplin and Hydrapple will have both the initial attack and the subsequent additional effect use the yellow coloration. In other cases, the coloration differs depending on the user, as it appears to account for the current appearance, Shininess, and species of the user when determining what coloration to use: When used by other Pokémon, by means such as Metronome or Sketch, Syrup Bomb will always have the red coloration, regardless of whether the user is Shiny. When used by a Pokémon, regardless of whether it itself is Shiny or not, that has transformed into a Shiny Dipplin or Hydrapple, Syrup Bomb will correctly display the yellow coloration for the initial attack, but the additional effect that lowers Speed at the end of each turn will still use the non-Shiny red coloration.

Title: Ivy Cudgel (move)

Ivy Cudgel (Japanese: ツタこんぼう Ivy Cudgel) is a damage-dealing Grass-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Teal Mask. It is the signature move of Ogerpon. Ivy Cudgel deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. The move's type changes depending on Ogerpon's held mask: If used by a Pokémon other than Ogerpon, Ivy Cudgel will always be a Grass-type move, even if that Pokémon holds one of the masks.

Title: Electro Shot (move)

Electro Shot (Japanese: エレクトロビーム Electro Beam) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is the signature move of Archaludon. On the turn it is selected, Electro Shot will raise the user's Special Attack stat by one stage, and the message "[User] absorbed electricity!" will be shown. On the following turn, Electro Shot will do damage (factoring in the Special Attack boost), PP will be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Electro Shot is selected, the user won't be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed. Electro Shot will not need a turn to charge if used during rain. If Electro Shot charges up for a turn before it is used, it will not go off if Disable is used on it. Sleep, freezing, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Electro Shot. If a Power Herb is held by the user, Electro Shot can be executed in one turn. The user will charge and boost their Special Attack, consume the Power Herb, then execute the final stage of the move in the same turn. The Special Attack boost is applied because the charging stage is still performed. Electro Shot's damage is boosted by Sheer Force despite not suppressing any additional effects. Electro Shot is tied with Bolt Strike for having the highest base power of all Electric-type moves, excluding Z-Moves, Max Moves, and G-Max Moves.

Title: Tera Starstorm (move)

Tera Starstorm (Japanese: テラクラスター Tera Cluster) is a damage-dealing move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is the signature move of Terapagos. Tera Starstorm inflicts damage. When used by Terapagos in its Stellar Form, Tera Starstorm becomes Stellar-type and targets both opponents in a Double Battle. If the user's Attack stat is higher than its Special Attack stat, Tera Starstorm becomes a physical move when Terastallized; otherwise, it remains a special move. For determining which stat is higher, stat stage-modifiers are taken into account, but other effects (e.g. held items such as a Choice Band, Abilities such as Huge Power, etc.) are not. Tera Starstorm has a different appearance if the user has Terastallized.

Title: Fickle Beam (move)

Fickle Beam (Japanese: きまぐレーザー Fickle Laser) is a damage-dealing Dragon-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is one of the signature moves of Hydrapple. Fickle Beam inflicts damage. It has a 30% chance to have its power doubled to 160. Consequently, the average base power is 104. Fickle Beam has a different appearance if the user "goes all out", where all of Hydrapple's syrpents shoot together in unison.

Title: Burning Bulwark (move)

Burning Bulwark (Japanese: かえんのまもり Blazing Protection) is a non-damaging Fire-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is the signature move of Gouging Fire. Burning Bulwark protects the user from all effects of physical and special moves that target it during the turn it is used. If Burning Bulwark blocks an attack that would make contact with the user, the attacker becomes burned (unless it is immune). (Moves that are blocked do not activate other effects that require making contact, like Rocky Helmet or Rough Skin.) If the user goes last in the turn, the move will fail. The chance that Burning Bulwark will succeed also drops each time the user successfully and consecutively uses Endure, any protection move that only affects the user, Quick Guard, or Wide Guard. Each time, the chance of success is divided by 3. Some moves will do damage through Burning Bulwark. Moves that break protection, like Feint, will do their full damage and remove the effects of Burning Bulwark. The Ability Unseen Fist allows contact moves to bypass Burning Bulwark. Burning Bulwark is an increased priority move that will go before most attacks in a turn. Burning Bulwark is the only protection move that is able to be called by Metronome. It is also the only signature move of a Paradox Pokémon to be a status move.

Title: Thunderclap (move)

If you were looking for the Thunderclap Pokémon, see Zeraora. Thunderclap (Japanese: じんらい Thunderclap) is a damage-dealing Electric-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is one of the signature moves of Raging Bolt. Thunderclap has a priority of +1. If Thunderclap's target has selected a physical or special attack and has not yet had a chance to execute its move, Thunderclap will damage the target; otherwise, Thunderclap will fail. Thunderclap only depends on the move the target has selected, and is not affected by any consideration of whether the attack can actually be executed, such as status conditions like sleep or freeze or Abilities like Truant. This move's name is the same as the category of Zeraora.

Title: Mighty Cleave (move)

Mighty Cleave (Japanese: パワフルエッジ Powerful Edge) is a damage-dealing Rock-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is the signature move of Iron Boulder. Mighty Cleave inflicts damage. It bypasses the effects of Protect, Detect, Spiky Shield, King's Shield, Baneful Bunker, Silk Trap, and Burning Bulwark, but does not lift the effects of these moves. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%.

Title: Tachyon Cutter (move)

Tachyon Cutter (Japanese: タキオンカッター Tachyon Cutter) is a damage-dealing Steel-type multistrike move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is the signature move of Iron Crown. Tachyon Cutter inflicts damage, hitting twice per use. Each strike has an equal chance to be a critical hit. It bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. If used by a Pokémon with Sharpness, its power is increased by 50%. Tachyon Cutter will hit again if the first strike breaks a substitute. Mirror Coat will only acknowledge the second strike of this move. If a Focus Sash activates before the last strike is dealt, the following strike will cause the defending Pokémon to faint. A Focus Band can still activate repeatedly to prevent fainting, but each chance is independent. If the user is holding a King's Rock or Razor Fang, each consecutive hit has an equal chance to cause the opponent to flinch. If the target has Stamina, each strike will activate it. Tachyon Cutter is the only multistrike move that cannot miss under normal conditions. A tachyon is a hypothetical particle that can move at superluminal (faster than light) speeds.

Title: Hard Press (move)

Hard Press (Japanese: ハードプレス Hard Press) is a damage-dealing Steel-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM225 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Hard Press inflicts damage. Its power varies between 1 and 100, and is greater the more HP the target has: This move was first revealed on November 21st, 2023, alongside Supercell Slam prior to the release of The Indigo Disk during Serebii's writeup of their hands-on preview of the DLC. This move works the same way as Crush Grip and Wring Out, but with higher PP and lower possible base power. It is the only one of these moves to not be Normal-type.

Title: Dragon Cheer (move)

Dragon Cheer (Japanese: ドラゴンエール Dragon Yell) is a non-damaging Dragon-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM226 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Dragon Cheer increases the user's allies' critical-hit ratio by one stage. If the affected Pokémon are Dragon-type, their critical-hit ratio is increased by two stages instead. The effects of Dragon Cheer can be copied by Psych Up, Transform, Costar, Opportunist, and a Mirror Herb. Dragon Cheer's effects apply based on the allies' type upon use of the move, and do not change if the allies' type changes later in battle. Prior to version 3.0.1, the effect of Dragon Cheer would remain even if switched in. The move will fail if there is no adjacent ally, or if the ally is already under the effects of Focus Energy or Dragon Cheer. A Dipplin that knows this move will evolve into Hydrapple when leveled up. Dragon Cheer was temporarily banned in official tournaments, due to the bug in Scarlet and Violet 3.0.0 that caused the boost to remain on switching out. The ban was lifted on the release of 3.0.1. Despite its name and description, Dragon Cheer is not a sound-based move.

Title: Alluring Voice (move)

Alluring Voice (Japanese: みわくのボイス Alluring Voice) is a damage-dealing move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM227 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Alluring Voice inflicts damage. The move also confuses the target if the target's stats were raised during the same turn before the execution of Alluring Voice. Alluring Voice is the only Fairy-type move introduced in Generation IX to be accessible in regular gameplay.

Title: Temper Flare (move)

Temper Flare (Japanese: やけっぱち Complete Desperation) is a damage-dealing Fire-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM207 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Temper Flare is a damage-dealing move. If, on the previous turn, the user's last move missed, failed to affect each of its targets, or was prevented from being used due to an effect such as paralysis, Temper Flare's power is doubled from 75 to 150. If the user was recharging or any target of the user's last move blocked it with a protection move such as Protect on the previous turn, Temper Flare's base power is not doubled. Temper Flare's Fire typing is likely thanks to its Japanese name containing やけ yake, meaning 'burn'. Its English name contains a similar pun on 'flare', while its names in other languages generally opt for a portmanteau instead.

Title: Supercell Slam (move)

Supercell Slam (Japanese: サンダーダイブ Thunder Dive) is a damage-dealing move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM210 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Supercell Slam deals damage. If the user misses, the user will take crash damage equal to half of the user's max HP, rounded down. If the target is immune to Supercell Slam by type or Ability (such as Volt Absorb) or is protected, the move counts as a miss. If the target has used Minimize, Supercell Slam deals double its regular damage and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move such as Dig or Fly. This move was first revealed on November 21, 2023 alongside Hard Press prior to the release of The Indigo Disk during Serebii's writeup of their hands-on preview of the DLC, though the move is referred to as Supercharged Cell, possibly erroneously. Supercell Slam is the only move capable of dealing crash damage that is not Fighting-type and the only one that does not have "kick" in its name.

Title: Psychic Noise (move)

Psychic Noise (Japanese: サイコノイズ Psycho Noise) is a damage-dealing Psychic-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM228 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Psychic Noise deals damage and prevents the target from recovering HP for two turns. During these two turns, if the target uses a move with a healing property, such as Recover or Drain Punch, it will fail. The Heal Block property of this move is considered an additional effect, and is thus blocked by Shield Dust and suppressed by Sheer Force. Aroma Veil also prevents the secondary effect from activating. Using Psychic Noise again while the Heal Block is active will not refresh the duration.

Title: Upper Hand (move)

Upper Hand (Japanese: はやてがえし Quick Hand Reversal) is a damage-dealing Fighting-type move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk. It is TM229 in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Upper Hand has a priority of +3. If the target has selected a physical or special move with increased priority from +1 to +3 (including Upper Hand itself) and has not yet had a chance to execute its move, Upper Hand will strike first and cause the target to flinch; otherwise, Upper Hand will fail. It also works on Abilities that give priority to moves, such as Gale Wings. In Pokémon GO, Upper Hand is a Charged Attack that has been available since April 13, 2025. Samurott, Cobalion, Terrakion, Virizion, Keldeo, Talonflame, Falinks, and Flamigo can learn Upper Hand despite lacking hands.

Title: Malignant Chain (move)

Malignant Chain (Japanese: じゃどくのくさり Noxious Chain) is a Poison-type damage-dealing move introduced during Generation IX, in The Indigo Disk (though it was not made available until the release of Mochi Mayhem). It is the signature move of Pecharunt. Malignant Chain inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of badly poisoning the target.

Title: Shadow Rush (move)

Shadow Rush (Japanese: ダークラッシュ Dark Rush) is a move usable only in Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. In Pokémon Colosseum, Shadow Rush is the only Shadow move in the game and all Shadow Pokémon know it when captured, while in Pokémon XD, it is one of several Shadow moves. Like all Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Rush does damage, with a power of 90, and the Pokémon takes recoil damage equal to ¹⁄₁₆ of the user's maximum HP, rounded down, either directly as the calculated result, or one more or less than it, chosen at random. The recoil damage from this move is not prevented by Rock Head. This move has a 90.625% chance to get a critical hit if the Shadow Pokémon using it is in Hyper Mode. More specifically, it adds a 90% chance that Shadow Rush will land a critical hit, similar to an additional effect. Failing that, it has the usual 6.25% chance to land a critical hit regardless. Despite Shadow moves not being super effective against any type in Colosseum, it will still deal damage to a Pokémon with Wonder Guard. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Colosseum or XD, Shadow Rush cannot be used in Contests. In the Pokémon summary screen, the game still displays a Contest description for this move, with Appeal and Jam scores of 0 each and a blank space where the Contest condition would be. Shadow Rush's base power drops to 55, but it no longer has recoil damage. Hyper Mode no longer exists, and its counterpart, Reverse Mode, does not increase the critical hit ratio. The game no longer displays a Contest description for any moves. All Shadow Pokémon in Pokémon Colosseum know this move from the start. In Pokémon Colosseum, a glitch allows Shadow Rush to hit the opponent when in the semi-invulnerable turn of Fly, Bounce, Dig, and Dive. However, the Shadow Pokémon must be in Hyper Mode, and must first attempt to use Thunder, Surf, Earthquake, or Magnitude accordingly.

Title: Shadow Blast (move)

Shadow Blast (Japanese: ダークブラスト Dark Blast) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. It is the signature move of Shadow Lugia. Shadow Blast is a Shadow version of Aeroblast. It deals damage and has an increased critical hit ratio. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Blast cannot be used in Contests. Despite being based on Aeroblast, Shadow Blast will turn into Psycho Boost upon Shadow Lugia's purification. Although Shadow Blast has the appearance of a special move, it is a physical move because Aeroblast was also a physical move in Generation III. This move is similar in concept to Aeroblast+, the signature move of Apex Shadow Lugia in Pokémon GO. Both are improved variants of Aeroblast exclusive to a specific individual Shadow Pokémon specimen.

Title: Shadow Blitz (move)

Shadow Blitz (Japanese: ダークアタック Dark Attack) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Blitz is a Shadow equivalent of the basic damage moves Pokémon often know at Level 1, such as Pound, Scratch, and Tackle. Shadow Blitz inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Blitz cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Bolt (move)

Shadow Bolt (Japanese: ダークサンダー Dark Thunder) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Shadow Pokémon is purified. It is the signature move of Shadow Zapdos. Shadow Bolt is a Shadow version of Thunderbolt. It deals damage and has a 10% chance of inflicting paralysis on the target. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Bolt cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Bolt is the only Shadow move that can cause paralysis.

Title: Shadow Break (move)

Shadow Break (Japanese: ダークブレイク Dark Break) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow Moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Break inflicts damage and has no secondary effect. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Break cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Chill (move)

Shadow Chill (Japanese: ダークフリーズ Dark Freeze) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Shadow Pokémon is purified. It is the signature move of Shadow Articuno. Shadow Chill is a Shadow version of Ice Beam. It deals damage and has a 10% chance of freezing the target. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Chill cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Chill is the only Shadow move that can cause freezing.

Title: Shadow End (move)

Shadow End (Japanese: ダークエンド Dark End) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow End deals damage, and the user takes recoil damage equal to half of its current HP. The recoil damage from this move is not prevented by Rock Head. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow End cannot be used in Contests. Shadow End has the highest power of all Shadow moves, with 120 base power, and is tied with Shadow Panic for the lowest accuracy, with only 60% accuracy. Shadow End is the only Shadow move in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness that causes recoil damage. Shadow End is used exclusively by Shadow Pokémon owned by Greevil and his two bodyguards/sons Ardos and Eldes.

Title: Shadow Fire (move)

Shadow Fire (Japanese: ダークファイア Dark Fire) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Shadow Pokémon is purified. It is the signature move of Shadow Moltres. Shadow Fire is a Shadow version of Flamethrower. It deals damage and has a 10% chance of burning the target. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Fire cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Fire is the only Shadow move that can cause burning.

Title: Shadow Rave (move)

Shadow Rave (Japanese: ダークレイブ Dark Rave) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Rave cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Storm (move)

Shadow Storm (Japanese: ダークストーム Dark Storm) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Storm cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Storm has the same power, accuracy, and targeting as Surf in Pokémon XD (the only game this move appears in).

Title: Shadow Wave (move)

Shadow Wave (Japanese: ダークウェーブ Dark Wave) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Wave cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Down (move)

Shadow Down (Japanese: ダークダウン Dark Down) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Down is a Shadow version of Screech. It lowers the Defense of both opponents by two stages each. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Down cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Half (move)

Shadow Half (Japanese: ダークハーフ Dark Half) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Half deals damage equal to 50% of each Pokémon's current HP, rounded down, to all Pokémon in battle, including the user. It cannot cause fainting. The user is forced to recharge during the next turn. Shadow Half cannot be used if the user is under the effect of Taunt. Damage dealt by Shadow Half is counted as an attack for the purpose of Bide, Mirror Coat (but not Counter), and Focus Punch. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Half cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Half is the only damaging move that targets all Pokémon on the field, including the user.

Title: Shadow Hold (move)

Shadow Hold (Japanese: ダークホールド Dark Hold) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Hold is a Shadow version of Spider Web, Mean Look, and Block. Shadow Hold targets both opponents and prevents the targets from switching out. The effect only applies as long as the Pokémon that used it remains in battle. Pokémon affected by Shadow Hold can still be forced to switch out with Roar and Whirlwind. The affected Pokémon can still switch out via Baton Pass, but in that case, the Pokémon that switches in will now be affected. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Hold cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Hold is the only trapping move that targets all opponents (but not allies).

Title: Shadow Mist (move)

Shadow Mist (Japanese: ダークミスト Dark Mist) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Mist is a Shadow version of Sweet Scent. Shadow Mist is a Shadow version of Sweet Scent. It lowers the evasion of both opponents by two stages each. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Mist cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Panic (move)

Shadow Panic (Japanese: ダークパニック Dark Panic) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Panic is a sound-based move, so it cannot affect Pokémon with Soundproof. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Panic cannot be used in Contests. Shadow Panic is the only Shadow move to be a sound-based move.

Title: Shadow Shed (move)

Shadow Shed (Japanese: ダークリムーブ Dark Remove) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Shed removes the effects of Safeguard, Reflect, and Light Screen from the opponent's side of the field. As Shadow Pokémon cannot be traded, and since Pokémon Contests do not exist in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, Shadow Shed cannot be used in Contests.

Title: Shadow Sky (move)

Shadow Sky (Japanese: ダークウェザー Dark Weather) is one of several Shadow moves available only in Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness. Like other Shadow moves, it is forgotten and replaced with another move once the Pokémon is purified. Shadow Sky covers the field in a shadowy aura that lasts for five turns. While in effect, all non-Shadow Pokémon (except those in the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig or Dive) are damaged at the end of each turn by 1/16 of their maximum HP, Shadow moves have their power boosted by 50% (although this part is not mentioned in game), and Weather Ball changes to become typeless and has its power doubled.

