Garbodor (XY competitive strategy): Garbodor is the most consistent Spiker in NU thanks to its bulk and typing, which allow it to set up Spikes reliably throughout the match. Mono-Poison typing gives it great resistances to Bug, Poison, Grass, and Fighting, allowing it to check common threats such as Scyther, Skuntank, Hariyama, Hitmonchan, Lilligant, and Primeape. Garbodor is one of the very few defensive pokemon in the tier able to beat standard Mega Audino variants. With its all-around natural bulk, Garbodor easily survives repeated hits while chipping away at the foe's health via Rocky Helmet damage. It also has a great ability in Aftermath, which can severely weaken or take out physical attackers such as Tauros, Kangaskhan, Zangoose, Samurott, Klinklang, and Liepard if they knock Garbodor out with a contact move. Garbodor also has a diverse movepool, including moves such as Focus Blast, Thunderbolt, Seed Bomb, and Psychic, which can allow it to surprise various checks such as Steelix, Aggron, Pelipper, Rhydon, Piloswine, Weezing, and Gastrodon. Unfortunately its typing also gives it vulnerability to common Ground-type coverage, as well as a weakness to Psychic. A lack of reliable recovery means Garbodor can get worn down really quickly, often leaving it unable to do its job of checking physical attackers. Spikes wears down grounded Pokemon with residual damage very quickly. Toxic Spikes helps wear down bulky, defensive teams much faster, as they usually have a method of recovery to mitigate the damage of Spikes alone. Gunk Shot hits anything that does not resist it relatively hard, is boosted by STAB, and has a chance to poison Xatu, preventing it from repeatedly switching in and bouncing back the entry hazards that Garbodor tries to set. Seed Bomb targets common Pokemon that resist Gunk Shot, including Gastrodon, Claydol, Rhydon, Omastar, and Kabutops Drain Punch is an option that can help give Garbodor some passive recovery as well as a method of hitting Steel-types such as Klinklang, Ferroseed, Aggron, and Steelix; however, it is quite weak, especially against the latter. Focus Blast is an alternative option that lets Garbodor hit Steelix and Aggron significantly harder while maintaining coverage on Rock-, Steel-, and Ice-types by hitting them on their often weaker Special Defense stat. Rock Blast is another option to deal with Scyther much more easily while also hitting Xatu and other Flying-types reliably on the switch. 56 Speed EVs let Garbodor outrun maximum Speed Mega Audino, Aggron, and Jolly Rhydon. Alternatively, 96 Speed EVs can be used to outpace neutral-natured fully invested base 55 Speed Pokemon, such as Cacturne, Exeggutor, and Omastar. Maximum HP investment increases Garbodor's overall bulk. The remaining EVs are put into Defense with an Impish nature to maintain Garbodor's high physical bulk and punish users of physical contact moves, such as Samurott, Scyther, and Hitmonchan. Aftermath helps Garbodor check physical attackers that rely on contact moves. Rocky Helmet inflicts chip damage, which discourages spinners from removing entry hazards unless they want to take a lot of recoil damage and chips away at physical attackers in general. Black Sludge can be used instead to give Garbodor some passive recovery and increase its longevity. Garbodor should set either entry hazard depending on the opposing team. If the team relies on their bulk to check Pokemon, Spikes can wear them down quickly; however, teams that have no way to get rid of status or a team without a Poison-type will hate Toxic Spikes, as it wears the opposing Pokemon down with consistent passive damage. Only use Drain Punch on frail threats such as Liepard, as bulky Rock-, and Steel-types such as Steelix, Regirock, and Rhydon can easily take it and setting a layer of Spikes or Toxic Spikes is more beneficial against them. Similarly, it is much more constructive for Garbodor to be setting down Spikes rather than using Seed Bomb on bulky targets such as Aurorus and Regirock most of the time. Garbodor can pivot into contact moves such as Kangaskhan's Fake Out, Hariyama's Bullet Punch, and Hitmonchan's Drain Punch in order to rack up Rocky Helmet damage; however, be wary, as many physical attackers carry Earthquake as coverage to hit Garbodor while also avoiding Rocky Helmet and Aftermath recoil. Use Gunk Shot on predicted switches to entry hazard removers such as Xatu, Pelipper, and Mantine, as it is Garbodor's strongest move against them. Finally, if Garbodor's HP is low and it has done its job, you can sacrifice it to a Pokemon using a contact move, such as a weakened spinner, to deal massive recoil via Rocky Helmet and Aftermath to the attacker and prevent the entry hazards from being removed if the spinner faints. Steelix is a great partner, as it completes an entry hazard setting core, with Steelix being able to shut down Psychic-types that trouble Garbodor, particularly Mesprit and Musharna, and Garbodor switching in on Fighting-type attacks aimed at Steelix. Ghost-types are good partners, as they can spinblock. Rotom can provide momentum with Volt Switch, and Mismagius can prevent Defog as well thanks to Taunt, while they can both switch into Ground-type attacks for Garbodor. Dark-types, such as Liepard, can take on the Ghost- and Psychic-types that resist Garbodor's attacks. Liepard is a particularly good partner with its ability to Pursuit trap Xatu, allowing Garbodor to have an easier time setting up entry hazards. Liepard also appreciates a bulky Pokemon that resists Fighting-type moves to fall back on. Water-types such as Samurott, Floatzel, and Poliwrath can destroy the Rock- and Ground-types that can stop Garbodor, while Garbodor can handle some Grass-types such as Lilligant, Shiftry, and Cacturne. Psychic-types such as Musharna, Mesprit, and Xatu can force opposing Poison-types out. Spikes wears down grounded Pokemon, which is nice because Garbodor can force a lot of switches. Gunk Shot hits really hard with investment in Attack, always getting the 2HKO on Pokemon such as bulky Xatu, Hitmonchan, Mantine, and Mega Audino. Drain Punch allows Garbodor to some Steel-types, such as Klinklang and Pawniard, while gaining a decent amount of HP. However, Focus Blast, while less reliable, hits Steelix, Ferroseed, Aggron, and Regirock much harder. Seed Bomb, with the investment, can secure 2HKOs on Gastrodon and Rhydon while denting Claydol significantly, which otherwise can force Garbodor out with their Ground-type STAB moves. Explosion is useful to block Rapid Spin and Defog and can hit spinners such as Claydol extremely hard. Toxic Spikes is also a nice option to pressure more defensively oriented teams. Maximum Speed EVs allow Garbodor to outspeed neutral-natured base 70 Speed Pokemon, such as Samurott and Ludicolo, as well as Hasty Abomasnow. A Jolly nature lets Garbodor outspeed defensive Xatu, which is extremely useful, as it can 2HKO with Gunk Shot and proceed to get hazards up. This nature also lets Garbodor outspeed Magmortar, Modest Mesprit, Adamant Kabutops and Lonely Shiftry. Alternatively, an Adamant nature further increases Garbodor's power, allowing it to hit Pokemon such as Xatu and Rhydon extremely hard. Aftermath allows Garbodor to check physical attackers, such as Klinklang and Hariyama. Rocky Helmet inflicts chip damage to punish physical attackers. Life Orb is an option to significantly increase damage output, letting Garbodor force many switches. Poison Barb can be used to avoid Life Orb's recoil while still dealing huge amounts of damage with Gunk Shot. Alternatively, Garbodor can utilize a specially offensive set consisting of moves including Gunk Shot, Giga Drain, Focus Blast, Thunderbolt, and Psychic to lure in specific checks and eliminate them with its wide coverage. Garbodor can be more lenient with its choice of moves because, with the Attack investment, it can surprise common checks such as Rhydon and Gastrodon. Garbodor can lure in and beat the common Pokemon that can either spin away or block entry hazards, such as Xatu, Mantine, and Pelipper, more reliably with the offensive investment. 252 Speed EVs allow Garbodor to outspeed a lot more Pokemon, giving it the ability to set up Spikes on more targets. This set can be a useful pivot on offensively oriented teams, as it has solid natural bulk, a good defensive typing, and power to hit spinners and Defoggers that may give offensive teams trouble, particularly Xatu. Common physical attackers that Garbodor gets chip damage on, such as Kangaskhan and Hariyama, may opt to use Earthquake, bypassing Aftermath and Rocky Helmet; however, offensive Garbodor can 2HKO both. If Garbodor is low on health and it has done its job, this set still works as an emergency check to a powerful physical attacker, inflicting around 41% to the foe with Rocky Helmet and Aftermath damage. Garbodor should use Explosion against Pokemon such as Pelipper, Mantine, Prinplup, and Skuntank to block their Defog. This set is more useful on bulky offense teams, as it can keep up the offensive pressure while still laying down entry hazards effectively. Pokemon such as Kangaskhan, Floatzel, Tauros, and Archeops appreciate their checks being worn down so that they can continue to pressure the opponent. Volt Switch and U-turn users, such as Scyther, Mesprit, and Manectric, appreciate the entry hazards, as they tend to force a lot of switches and can keep up offensive pressure while their own checks get worn down. Pokemon with Defiant, such as Primeape, can deter Defoggers from getting rid of your entry hazards, while Malamar can actually increase its evasion thanks to Contrary. Spinblockers such as Rotom and Mismagius can also keep entry hazards up as well as provide a Ground immunity for Garbodor and threaten out Psychic-types. Furthermore, these Ghost-types can take advantage of the Toxic Spikes Garbodor spreads to launch full-powered Hexes straight away. Garbodor has a wide special movepool with moves such as Thunderbolt to punish Pelipper and Mantine; Giga Drain to have recovery while doing hefty damage to Water- and Ground-types; Psychic for coverage against Poison-types such as Vileplume, Weezing, and opposing Garbodor; and Focus Blast to hit Ferroseed and Steelix harder. Haze is an option that allows Garbodor to reset the boosts of setup sweepers, as well as Steel-types such as Klinklang and even Pokemon behind a Substitute. Rock Polish can allow Garbodor to set up and sweep, as it has decent Attack and Speed stats. It also has plenty of coverage to pick what it can beat, which can make it a surprisingly solid late-game cleaner. With a Shuca Berry, Garbodor can lure in Pokemon such as Rhydon and Steelix and hit them with Giga Drain and Focus Blast, respectively.
Garbodor (SM competitive strategy): Garbodor is one of NU's most reliable Spikes setters thanks to its workable bulk, its very useful defensive typing, and its power that allows it to forcibly bypass Xatu. Furthermore, Garbodor's pure Poison typing and above average defensive stats mean it can function as a check to some of NU's most threatening Pokemon in Passimian and Comfey. A wide offensive movepool combined with workable base 95 Attack lets Garbodor threaten Xatu with a STAB Gunk Shot while threatening Pokemon such as Seismitoad and Silvally-Steel with Seed Bomb and Stomping Tantrum. In addition, a utility movepool including Spikes and Toxic Spikes and options such as Explosion and Pain Split gives Garbodor the ability to easily set up entry hazards against an enemy team and either keep them up or keep itself healthy. However, while Gunk Shot is fairly powerful, Garbodor's only good Attack means that it struggles to threaten Pokemon such as Rhydon and Steelix, even with its coverage options. Furthermore, while its bulk is good enough to take resisted hits, Garbodor finds itself taking significant damage from neutral attacks, and it finds itself threatened by coverage moves, taking very heavy damage from Passimian's Earthquake and Whimsicott's Psychic. Gunk Shot lets Garbodor always 2HKO Xatu with either a Toxic Plate or an Adamant nature, as well as threaten Pokemon such as Comfey and Delphox. Spikes and Toxic Spikes wear down opposing Pokemon, helping out Garbodor's team, and Garbodor is a good user of the moves thanks to its great defensive typing and ability to bypass Xatu. Stomping Tantrum can be used if Toxic Spikes is not needed, is Garbodor's hardest-hitting move against Steelix and Klinklang, and threatens opposing Garbodor. Alternatively, Seed Bomb can be used to wear down Seismitoad and Rhydon for Garbodor, which can be very beneficial for its team. Explosion prevents the opponent from using Defog or Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards, provided that Garbodor is faster than the enemy, while also dealing very heavy damage. Pain Split can be used in the last moveslot to keep Garbodor at high HP over the course of a match, preventing it from being worn down too much, and can make matchups against Pokemon such as Comfey and Sceptile significantly easier. Maximum Attack and an Adamant nature maximize Garbodor's power, enabling it to 2HKO Xatu with Gunk Shot, as well as hit targets such as Decidueye and Vaporeon for heavy damage. Maximum Speed is needed to outrun Xatu as well as Pokemon such as Incineroar. A Jolly nature can be used with Toxic Plate to maintain the 2HKO on Xatu and outrun standard Comfey and maximum Speed Decidueye. If using an Adamant nature, Black Sludge can be used to give Garbodor useful recovery, significantly increasing its longevity, while a Rocky Helmet can be used to damage any Pokemon making contact with it, such as Passimian using U-turn. Toxic Plate can be run with an Adamant nature if being able to 2HKO Blastoise after Stealth Rock is needed. Aftermath is used to deal recoil damage to the foe if they KO Garbodor with a contact move, such as Comfey's Draining Kiss or Passimian's Knock Off. Garbodor is often better off using Gunk Shot if the opponent has a Xatu, as it can immediately bounce back any Spikes Garbodor uses if it switches in correctly. Gunk Shot deals heavy damage to most Pokemon that do not resist it and can be used to buy a turn to use Spikes, for example against Vaporeon, which is often forced to Wish if it switches into Gunk Shot. Garbodor should be brought in often against Grass-types such as Sceptile, as the more turns it has to set up Spikes, the more Garbodor can support its team. Be careful of coverage moves such as Earthquake from Passimian and status moves such as Will-O-Wisp from Weezing, as they can leave Garbodor crippled for the rest of a match. Explosion should be used when the opponent is predicted to use either Defog or Rapid Spin, as it stops them from removing entry hazards while also dealing heavy damage. If it's running the correct coverage, an enemy such as Silvally-Steel or Blastoise using Defog or Rapid Spin can often be a free turn for Garbodor to attack. Garbodor generally needs teammates to take on enemy Ground-types for it, so Pokemon such as Sceptile, Alolan Exeggutor, and Seismitoad can make good teammates. Magic Bounce and Rapid Spin support from Pokemon such as Xatu, Dhelmise, and Blastoise allows Garbodor to keep its Spikes up even if its team requires enemy hazards removed. Pokemon such as Klinklang, Comfey, and Passimian all appreciate the entry hazard support that Garbodor provides, which can easily wear down Pokemon such as Steelix and Delphox for them. Wallbreakers such as Magmortar and Alolan Exeggutor also benefit from Garbodor's Spikes support thanks to the number of switches they force. Stealth Rock users such as Rhydon, Steelix, and Piloswine are good teammates, building on the hazard pressure that Garbodor provides. Rhydon and Piloswine are especially good options, as they provide another method to pressure Xatu. Pokemon such as Heliolisk and Incineroar are able to beat Golbat and Rotom for Garbodor, Pokemon that it otherwise struggles with. Gunk Shot pressures Xatu, 2HKOing it if it poisons it, and OHKOes Comfey, although its lacking PP and low accuracy make it unreliable to spam. Spikes wears down enemy Pokemon, helping out Garbodor's team, and Garbodor has the typing and defensive stats to come in multiple times to set them, while it has the power to bypass Xatu, a common entry hazard control option. Toxic Spikes gives Garbodor an additional move with which to support its team, easily and quickly wearing down defensive Pokemon such as Vaporeon, Rhydon, and Torterra for Garbodor's team. Alternatively, Seed Bomb can be used to wear down Seismitoad and Rhydon for Garbodor. Pain Split keeps Garbodor at high HP over the course of a match, preventing it from being worn down too much, and can make matchups against Pokemon such as Comfey and Sceptile significantly easier. Maximum HP and 228 Special Defense EVs with a Careful nature give Garbodor good special bulk, letting it take only 33% from Sceptile's Leaf Storm and easily wall Comfey. 28 Speed EVs let Garbodor outrun defensive Blastoise as well as Modest Alolan Exeggutor. Black Sludge keeps Garbodor healthy, mitigating chip damage taken from Stealth Rock and preventing it from being worn down as easily. Aftermath causes any Pokemon that KOes Garbodor with a contact move to take significant recoil damage. Rocky Helmet can be used to punish any opponent that makes contact with Garbodor, notably easily wearing down enemy Comfey and punishing U-turns from Pokemon such as Passimian. A physically defensive EV spread of 252 HP / 228 Def / 28 Spe can also be used to better take on Pokemon such as Passimian. However, this leaves Garbodor significantly more vulnerable to Sceptile, and Garbodor remains vulnerable to the coverage moves many physical threats carry. If facing Xatu, don't immediately try to set up Spikes, as an opponent will often try to reflect them or scout which Garbodor set is being run by switching into it. Better options are to use Gunk Shot to damage Xatu or switch out to a teammate that can punish it such as Sneasel or Heliolisk. When against an opponent without Xatu, it is often helpful to immediately set up entry hazards, as it will force the opponent to quickly remove them, or they will consistently take significant damage. Garbodor should generally be brought in against attacks it resists, such as Comfey's Draining Kiss and Passimian's Close Combat, although it should be wary of coverage moves, such as Passimian's Earthquake. Prioritize Spikes over Toxic Spikes if the opponent has a grounded Poison-type such as their own Garbodor, and generally try to prioritize Toxic Spikes if the opponent's hazard remover is vulnerable to Toxic Spikes or if the opponent has a Pokemon such as Slowking or Dhelmise that needs to be poisoned. Aftermath can be used to deal significant damage to the opponent that KOes Garbodor, so try to keep Garbodor around for the right time once it gets to low HP. Teammates such as Sneasel, Heliolisk, and Incineroar that can take on Xatu for Garbodor are helpful, with the former being able to Pursuit trap Xatu, potentially removing it from the game. Garbodor generally needs teammates to take on enemy Ground-types for it, so Pokemon such as Sceptile, Decidueye, and Seismitoad can make good teammates. Entry hazard removal that keeps Garbodor's Spikes up is preferred, so Pokemon such as Xatu, Blastoise, and Dhelmise are excellent teammates. Toxic Spikes support is greatly appreciated by Delphox, Rotom, and Vaporeon, as well as any Pokemon with answers weak to poison or some way of staying on the field for a long time. Wallbreakers and cleaners such as Magmortar, Comfey, and Passimian appreciate Garbodor's support, being able to either rack up Spikes damage by forcing switches or appreciating that Spikes wears down their answers. Stealth Rock users such as Piloswine, Druddigon, and Rhydon that can get Stealth Rock up against Xatu are good teammates, as Stealth Rock support can help wear it down. Heliolisk and Incineroar are exceptional teammates, as they can take on Golbat and Rotom, which easily Defog on Garbodor and resist Gunk Shot. Poisonium Z can be used on the offensive set to guarantee a hit against Xatu while still offering an easy 2HKO against it. However, a team's Z-Crystal is often better spent elsewhere. Weak Armor can be used to give Garbodor a Speed boost when it is hit, letting it potentially set more entry hazards, but the Defense drop it incurs means it is far less reliable as a check to enemy Fighting-types. Garbodor can be run on rain teams with Rain Dance to provide the archetype with a Comfey check, although Rain Dance is entirely useless on any other build.
Garbodor (SS competitive strategy): Garbodor is a passable Spikes user in PU thanks to several unique qualities. For one, its good physical bulk allows it to handle dangerous attackers such as Sneasel and Centiskorch and punish them with Rocky Helmet and Aftermath, while a pure Poison typing lets Garbodor naturally check common Grass- and Fairy-types like Ribombee, Eldegoss, and Whimsicott. Garbodor sets itself apart from Weezing as a defensive Poison-type with Spikes and an overall greater offensive presence, courtesy of its better Speed, stronger attacks, and potential disruptive tools in Toxic Spikes and Corrosive Gas, which lets it slot into fast-paced teams. However, Garbodor is walled by several common Pokemon that resist Gunk Shot and shrug off Stomping Tantrum, such as Jellicent, Archeops, and especially Sandslash, which can threaten it with Earthquake and remove its entry hazards with little issue. Furthermore, Garbodor's lackluster special bulk leaves it vulnerable to powerful special attackers such as Charizard and Wishiwashi. Garbodor also faces immense competition as a Spikes user on offensive teams from Qwilfish and Froslass, as the former is a better pivot thanks to its superior typing, ability, and utility options, while the latter can utilize its Ghost typing and Speed to lay down Spikes nearly unopposed. Pain Split gives Garbodor more longevity to set Spikes, letting it take advantage of checks such as Jellicent that have naturally high HP. Stomping Tantrum gives Garbodor a way to hit Steel- and Rock-types such as Aggron and Gigalith. Alternatively, Toxic Spikes effectively pressures defensive Pokemon such as Quagsire and Regirock and pivots such as Wishiwashi, while Corrosive Gas lets Garbodor remove important items from its checks, most notably Doublade's and Ferroseed's Eviolite. 56 Speed EVs allow Garbodor to outspeed Adamant Aggron. An alternative spread of 252 HP / 120 Def / 136 Spe allows Garbodor to outspeed everything up to offensive Jellicent, giving it more opportunities to set Spikes. Garbodor can also choose to allot some of its Defense EVs into Attack to better pressure its offensive checks; a spread with 132 Attack allows it to OHKO Togedemaru with Stomping Tantrum and 2HKO most Charizard sets with Gunk Shot. Garbodor should be used alongside solid Charizard switch-ins such as Gigalith and Jellicent. Stealth Rock setters, such as the aforementioned Gigalith and Sandaconda, form excellent entry hazard-stacking cores with Garbodor. Garbodor also appreciates partners such as Ribombee and Sneasel that can pressure Sandslash and Hattrem, both of which counter Garbodor and prevent it from setting Spikes.
Goodra (XY competitive strategy): Goodra's incredible Special Defense allows it to serve as an effective special tank while still being able to dish out decent damage thanks to its base 100 Attack and 110 Special Attack stats. Its useful defensive typing and ability Sap Sipper back up Goodra's natural bulk and makes it to a perfect Celebi counter plus also giving it three resistances and one immunity. Goodra has great coverage options; fortunately, Goodra also has the stat distribution to run both physically and specially oriented sets. However, its mediocre Defense stat combined with a lack of reliable recovery outside of Rest gives it stiff competition in its roles when compared to other Dragon-types such as Hydreigon and Kyurem both of which have greater Speed and reliable recovery in Roost. Outrage is Goodra's main STAB attack and hits extremely hard in combination of Goodra's decent Attack and a Choice Band; however, it should only be used freely once Steel- and Fairy-type Pokemon have been KOed. Earthquake hits the Steel-types that resist Goodra's STAB, such as Mega Aggron. Fire Punch is another option to hit Whimsicott and Forretress, which are not damaged badly by Goodra's other attacks, for more reliable damage. Superpower is an option to hit Blissey and Mega Aggron harder; however, the Attack and Defense drops can be problematic. Power Whip provides good coverage against bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Vaporeon, Alomomola, Swampert, and Suicune, hitting them for super effective damage. Iron Tail hits Fairy-type Pokemon such as Florges and Sylveon which are immune to Goodra's STAB moves. Choice Band gives Goodra a massive Attack stat, letting it hit incredibly hard with all of its attacks. Maximum Attack investment and an Adamant nature allows Goodra to dish out a lot of damage from its physical attacks. 44 Speed EVs allow Goodra to outspeed uninvested base 85 Speed Pokemon such as Gligar, Suicune, and Cresselia. Sap Sipper gives Goodra an immunity to Grass-type attacks as well as a free Attack boost upon switching into one. An alternate EV spread of 72 HP / 252 Atk / 184 Spe can be used to outspeed Adamant Honchkrow and OHKO it with Outrage. The remaining EVs are placed into HP, allowing Goodra to tank hits more efficiently. Goodra can freely switch into Grass-type attacks to get a free Attack boost, which, in tandem with Choice Band, makes Goodra an incredibly fearsome wallbreaker with the power to break down even the sturdiest of physical walls. Goodra also works as a great switch-in to special Water- and Electric-type attacks thanks to its phenomenal special bulk and good defensive typing. Draco Meteor is Goodra's main STAB and hits with monstrous power in combination with Goodra's decent Special Attack and Choice Specs. Fire Blast hits Steel-types such as Forretress, which resist Goodra's STAB moves. Sludge Bomb hits Fairy-type Pokemon such as Florges and Sylveon, which are immune to Goodra's STAB moves, for super effective damage. Thunderbolt hits bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Vaporeon, Empoleon, and Suicune, while Muddy Water can be used to hit Ground- and Fire-type Pokemon such as Krookodile and Chandelure for super effective damage. Choice Specs gives Goodra a massive Special Attack stat, letting it hit as hard as possible in combination with a Modest nature and maximum Special Attack EVs. 44 Speed EVs allow Goodra to outspeed uninvested base 85 Speed Pokemon such as Gligar, Suicune, and Cresselia. Sap Sipper is the ability of choice, giving Goodra an immunity to all Grass-type attacks. An alternate EV spread of 72 HP / 252 SpA / 184 Spe can be utilized to outspeed Adamant Honchkrow and OHKO it with Draco Meteor. The remaining EVs are placed into Goodra's HP stat to help back up its natural bulk, thus allowing it to take incoming attacks better. Goodra's phenomenal special bulk makes it a fantastic pivot into special attacks, and Goodra's strong offensive presence allows it to hit whatever switches in decently hard. Goodra likes to switch into Pokemon it can handle extremely easily, such as Shaymin and Chandelure. Be wary of staying in against strong physical attacks, as Goodra's mediocre Defense leaves it extremely vulnerable to strong physical attacks. Draco Meteor is Goodra's most powerful STAB attack, and it hits like a truck even without a boosting item. However, this attack lowers Goodra's Special Attack by two stages, and has a 10% change of missing. Dragon Pulse is an option, providing less power than Draco Meteor but not having the nasty side effects that come along with it. Fire Blast hits Steel types, such as Mega Aggron, Forretress, and Mega Steelix, which resist Goodra's main STAB move, for super effective damage. Flamethrower can be used over this for perfect accuracy but less power. Thunderbolt hits bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Alomomola and Empoleon for super effective damage and provides unresisted coverage with Fire and Dragon. Dragon Tail is useful for phazing opposing Pokemon that might attempt to set up. Sludge Bomb hits Fairy-type Pokemon such as Florges and Sylveon which are immune to Goodra's main STAB move, while Muddy Water hits bulky Ground- and Water-type Pokemon. Ice Beam can be used to hit Gligar, while Power Whip is mainly used to hit Swampert. An Assault Vest boosts Goodra's already high natural Special Defense to extraordinary levels, taking even certain super effective hits incredibly well. Sap Sipper is the ability of choice, giving Goodra a free switch into Grass-type attacks and boosting Dragon Tail's power. Maximum Special Attack investment with a Modest nature lets Goodra hit as hard as possible. 248 HP EVs boost Goodra's good natural bulk, while reducing residual damage. Goodra has free reign to switch into the majority of special attacks, taking most of them fantastically well, which makes it a fantastic pivot into special attackers such as Chandelure and Shaymin; take this advantage to hit whatever switches in extremely hard with one of Goodra's attacks. Be extremely wary about attempting to stay in against physical attacks, as even with investment into bulk, Goodra's mediocre Defense leaves much to be desired. Alomomola can switch freely in to most physical attacks aimed at Goodra while also giving Wish support. Goodra can also switch into a plethora special attacks that might threaten Alomomola. Swampert not only provides fantastic type synergy with Goodra, but it can also lay down Stealth Rock to help it wear down its foes. Florges and Aromatisse can provide Wish support as well, as Goodra can get worn down easily throughout the battle. Mega Aggron has phenomenal physical Defense, being able to comfortably switch into many physical hits that threaten Goodra. It can also provide Stealth Rock support so Goodra has an easier time wearing down its foes. Curse can boost Goodra's Attack and Defense at the cost of losing Speed upon use. Rain Dance and Hydration provides support for dedicated Rain teams, and it allows Goodra to freely abuse Rest. Toxic cripples common switch-ins such as Florges, Blissey, Suicune, Swampert, and Alomomola. Gooey can help against offensive teams, however, due to Goodra's mediocre Defense, it will often struggle staying in against strong physical attacks.
Goodra (SM competitive strategy): Goodra's ability and typing, which give it a Grass-type immunity and Electric, Fire, and Water resistances, combined with great bulk let Goodra act as a fantastic sponge that can check offensive threats such as Roserade, Raikou, Ninetales, and Salazzle and switch into bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Milotic. On top of this, Goodra's respectable Speed gives it the ability to run Choice Scarf, outpacing Choice Scarf Tyrantrum and Aerodactyl. Goodra's solid Special Attack and amazing coverage make Choice Specs also great, as it renders Goodra hugely threatening to bulky offense and balance teams by hitting a wide range of Pokemon. However, Choice Scarf Goodra is pressured by popular Fairy- and Steel-type Pokemon such as Florges and Registeel, which are easily able to switch into most of its attacks and can use Goodra as setup fodder if it isn't careful about what it locks itself into. Furthermore, Goodra has no reliable recovery and is easily chipped away by status, entry hazards, and Pokemon that it can check. Draco Meteor is Goodra's most powerful STAB move and dishes out high damage on targets hit neutrally by it. Thunderbolt is used to hit Water-type Pokemon such as Mega Blastoise and Araquanid. Fire Blast is used for coverage on Steel-type Pokemon such as Metagross and Registeel. Earthquake allows Goodra to deal with Calm Mind Raikou and more reliably revenge kill Pokemon like Salazzle, as its accuracy is superior to that of Draco Meteor. Ice Beam can be used over Draco Meteor to hit Pokemon like Zygarde-10%, Noivern, Flygon, and other Dragon-type Pokemon for super effective damage without losing stats or having a chance to miss. However, Ice Beam is a lot weaker and leaves no real option to heavily damage foes neutral to Dragon. Maximum Speed investment, a Timid nature, and Choice Scarf allow Goodra to Speed tie with other Choice Scarf users like Passimian and Gardevoir as well as outpace the entire unboosted metagame bar Mega Sceptile. Sap Sipper gives Goodra an immunity to Grass-type moves, allowing it to switch into Grass-types like Shaymin more easily. A Hasty nature alternatively allows Goodra to keep maximum Speed and some Attack in order to make use of Earthquake better. Goodra should primarily be used as a revenge killer, having the Speed and moveset to take on Pokemon such as Tyrantrum, Noivern, Salazzle, and Zygarde-10%. Make sure to use Fire Blast when predicting Steel-type Pokemon that wish to take advantage of Draco Meteor. If the opponent has a Florges or Registeel, try to predict what moves to use or what switches to make in order to not waste turns dealing little damage. Even though Goodra is offensive, it can still soft check Pokemon such as Roserade and Salazzle. Try to make use of Goodra's bulk and typing to check Pokemon as well as revenge killing. Be aware of status and entry hazards when using Goodra, as it has no reliable recovery. Too much damage over time leaves Goodra open to priority users such as Golisopod, Zygarde-10%, and Honchkrow. Watch out for locking into the wrong move, like Thunderbolt against a team with Dragon Dance Zygarde-10%. Goodra has the ability to revenge kill and force switches, so entry hazards are good because they cause chip damage to the opponent's checks. Registeel, Metagross, Roserade, and Nidoqueen work especially well, as they also cover Goodra's Fairy-type weakness. Water-types are very good alongside Goodra thanks to its Electric resistance and ability to check Grass-type Pokemon with Sap Sipper. Mega Blastoise and Golisopod work very well with Goodra offensively, whereas Milotic and Slowbro work well defensively and also cover Goodra's weakness to physical attackers. Steel-type Pokemon such as Registeel, Metagross, Bronzong, and Escavalier can switch into Gardevoir and Florges, which check Goodra. Poison-type Pokemon like Nidoqueen, Roserade, and Salazzle are also very good checks to Florges. Fairy-type Pokemon such as Florges and Gardevoir help to remove threats to Goodra like Noivern, Flygon, and Zygarde-10%. Florges and Gardevoir also have the ability to keep Goodra healthy with Wish, Heal Bell, and Healing Wish. Physical walls such as Tangela and Slowbro can work alongside Goodra well defensively, as they are able to make up for Goodra's lacking physical bulk. Choice Specs-boosted Draco Meteor can put a huge dent into anything that doesn't resist it, being able to 2HKO specially defensive Pokemon such as Araquanid without needing to use Thunderbolt. Fire Blast nukes Steel-type Pokemon, sending Metagross packing as well as 2HKOing Bronzong. Thunderbolt deals with Araquanid more consistently and 2HKOes Milotic after Stealth Rock damage. Sludge Wave prevents Fairy-type Pokemon from switching into Goodra, as it 2HKOes Florges and OHKOes Gardevoir after Stealth Rock. Thunder allows Goodra to hit Water-types harder than Thunderbolt does. It has a chance to OHKO Mandibuzz and Mega Blastoise as well as being able to potentially paralyze faster Pokemon. Ice Beam is an option over Sludge Wave if you have teammates to exploit Florges. Maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Goodra to outspeed Pokemon such as Mega Blastoise, Tyrantrum, and Necrozma. Sap Sipper makes sure that Goodra can still check some Grass-type Pokemon such as Roserade and Shaymin. Choice Specs Goodra is a powerful wallbreaker, hitting bulky Pokemon such as Milotic, Metagross, and Florges heavily with coverage moves as well as being able to OHKO Pokemon such as Mega Blastoise with Draco Meteor. If you wish for Goodra to break through a team easier, you will need to correctly predict in order to get rid of its checks. Sludge Wave on a predicted Florges or Fire Blast on a predicted Registeel will go a long way towards Goodra winning. Goodra still has a good Special Defense stat, so despite being offensive, it can still check a lot of special attackers like Ninetales and Roserade. Sap Sipper should be used to check Grass-types that rely on Grass-type attacks to deal heavy damage such as Shaymin and Roserade. Choice Specs Goodra is a wallbreaker and forces a lot of switches, so entry hazard setters are very important. Registeel, Metagross, Roserade, and Nidoqueen work especially well, as they also cover Goodra's Fairy-type weakness. Goodra can remove a lot of bulkier Pokemon, leaving the door wide open for a sweeper. Choice Scarf users such as Gardevoir, Noivern, Flygon, and Shaymin can all take advantage of Goodra's ability to remove walls from the match. Both Shaymin and Gardevoir also help support Goodra with Healing Wish. Goodra still needs support to avoid being revenge killed by heavy-hitting physical attackers. Pokemon like Slowbro and Tangela can help to pivot in on these Pokemon. Fairy- and Steel-type Pokemon work well with Goodra, as they can come in on Dragon- and Fairy-type attacks that threaten out Goodra. Florges and Registeel work well defensively, whereas Gardevoir and Metagross can work more offensively. Goodra's Sap Sipper, as well as its useful Electric resistance, can help Water-type teammates like Golisopod, Milotic, and Slowbro. Assault Vest Goodra with Dragon Tail in order to phaze checks can be used to more reliably check special attackers. However, this set is worse than both Choice Specs and Choice Scarf because it is checked easier by bulky Pokemon and its only value over other Assault Vest users in the tier is its Grass immunity. Choice Band Goodra can also be used in favor of Choice Specs to wallbreak. However, Outrage is an unreliable move that makes it easy for revenge killers to KO Goodra.
Goodra (SS competitive strategy): Goodra's solid Special Attack and high-Base Power moves with wide coverage give it a niche as a dangerous wallbreaker, capable of dismantling common defensive cores in the metagame. Its decent defensive typing, naturally great special bulk, and Sap Sipper give it good defensive utility and afford it ample opportunities to switch into special attackers such as Raikou, Celebi, and Rotom-C, or defensive Pokemon such as Vileplume. However, because Goodra relies on its array of coverage moves and defensive profile to be threatening, it usually runs Expert Belt over a stronger item such as Life Orb or Choice Specs; as a result, it is not powerful enough to bust through common specially bulky Pokemon such as Umbreon, Snorlax, and Reuniclus, especially since Expert Belt rarely boosts its STAB Draco Meteor. Goodra also often relies on inaccurate moves like Thunder and Hydro Pump to properly wallbreak, making it inconsistent. Finally, while Goodra's Speed tier is good enough to outpace threats such as Nidoqueen and Metagross, it is outpaced by many powerful physical attackers that can prey on its subpar Defense, such as Heracross, Lucario, Mimikyu, and Flygon. Fire Blast hits Celebi and bulky Steel-types such as Registeel, Bronzong, and Steelix hard. Thunderbolt hits Milotic and Togekiss, which would otherwise comfortably wall Goodra, along with other Water- and Flying-types such as Starmie and Crobat. Thunder hits Togekiss notably harder and guarantees the 2HKO against Milotic, which Thunderbolt cannot achieve, at the cost of shaky accuracy. Hydro Pump OHKOes Rhyperior and Chandelure and deals excellent damage to Nidoqueen, Diancie, and specially defensive Incineroar. Sap Sipper allows Goodra to absorb Sleep Powder and Grass-type attacks from Roserade, Vileplume, and Rotom-C, giving it more opportunities to switch in safely. Expert Belt increases Goodra's power against the myriad of Pokemon that it can hit super effectively while not harming its versatility or longevity, like Choice Specs or Life Orb would. A Timid nature is necessary to outspeed Nidoqueen and Toxtricity and Speed tie with Chandelure. Physical attackers that can break down Goodra's specially defensive answers are excellent partners. Heracross and Bewear in particular can obliterate Snorlax, Umbreon, and Registeel with their Fighting-type attacks, and in return Goodra can soften up their checks such as Togekiss and Jellicent. Heracross also can also carry Spikes, which augments Goodra's wallbreaking power greatly. Mimikyu also pairs very well with Goodra, as it can sweep with greater ease once Goodra has weakened their shared switch-ins, such as Steelix, Registeel, and Galarian Weezing. Because of its middling Speed and poor Defense, Goodra is best paired with multiple pivots to enter battle safely. Milotic and Crobat can handle many of the physical attackers that trouble Goodra and pivot it in with Flip Turn and U-turn, respectively. Golisopod can support Goodra with Spikes and Knock Off, revenge kill fast threats such as Flygon and Gardevoir with First Impression, and bring Goodra in for free with Emergency Exit. Electric-type pivots such as Xurkitree and Rotom-C can bait in Grass-types for Goodra to take advantage of, check Milotic, and bother shared checks with Volt Switch and Trick. Finally, Stealth Rock support is valuable to chip Pokemon such as Milotic and Nidoqueen into range of Goodra's attacks; Steelix is a particularly effective partner in this role, as it pressures Registeel, checks Fairy-types such as Mimikyu and Choice Scarf Gardevoir, and benefits from Goodra checking Raikou. Flamethrower and Surf are fair options for more reliability than Fire Blast and Hydro Pump. However, the drop in power is costly, as Goodra will fail to 3HKO Registeel with the former move or OHKO Rhyperior and Chandelure with the latter. Sludge Bomb is a possible alternative to an Electric-type attack, as it 2HKOes Grimmsnarl and Gardevoir, which otherwise can take two hits from Goodra with ease, and still targets Togekiss. However, Goodra will then miss out on Milotic and be setup fodder for Suicune. Choice Specs can amp up Goodra's wallbreaking power, in particular making its Draco Meteor much more threatening, but makes it very prediction reliant. A Choice Band set with Outrage and coverage moves such as Power Whip and Earthquake can be a nasty surprise for some of Goodra's best checks, scoring 2HKOes on Snorlax, Umbreon, Milotic, and Registeel. However, relying on the very risky Outrage as Goodra's main move leaves it easily revenge killed and makes it far less reliable overall. Choice Scarf is also usable to catch faster Pokemon such as Noivern and Crobat off guard and revenge kill many of Goodra's usual offensive checks, while Assault Vest takes advantage of Goodra's huge natural special bulk to better check Pokemon such as Celebi, Nidoqueen, and Raikou. However, both of these options greatly diminish Goodra's wallbreaking potential.
Goodra (SV competitive strategy): Goodra carves out a unique niche thanks to its great utility and good set diversity. Goodra's great Special Defense and typing allow it to check special wallbreakers like Chandelure, Munkidori, and Inteleon. Goodra's solid utility movepool gives it a lot of options to support its team; Knock Off lets it pressure item-reliant Pokemon like Porygon2 and Incineroar, Toxic allows Goodra to cripple defensive foes like Gastrodon and Diancie, and Dragon Tail phazes setup sweepers like Oricorio-P and Toxtricity. Choice Specs makes Goodra a strong wallbreaker that can 2HKO the bulkiest foes that don't resist Dragon like Gastrodon and Alolan Muk after Stealth Rock damage. However, Goodra's average physical bulk makes it very easy to be revenge killed by physical attackers like Flygon, Toxicroak, and Flamigo. Steel- and Fairy-types like Bronzong, Diancie, and Scream Tail can take advantage of Choice Specs Goodra locking into its Dragon-type attacks, letting them set up or force it to switch. Furthermore, Goodra's middling Speed makes it easily revenge killed by faster Pokemon like Flamigo, Paldean Tauros-W, and Flygon. Goodra also lacks any reliable recovery, so its utility sets can be overwhelmed by repeated attacks. Fire Blast allows Goodra to beat common Steel-types like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Klefki, while Flamethrower can be used for its better accuracy. Sludge Bomb allows Goodra to threaten Fairy-types like Sylveon and Scream Tail and lets it fish for poison. Alternatively, Sludge Wave can be used for the higher power. Knock Off lets it threaten Pokemon that heavily rely on their item such as Porygon2 and Scyther. Toxic cripples defensive walls like Vaporeon, Porygon2, and Scream Tail. Dragon Tail can phaze setup sweepers like Oricorio-P and Toxtricity, while Scald allows Goodra to threaten physical attackers like Paldean Tauros-W and Scyther with a burn. Sap Sipper allows it to be immune to Grass-type attacks from Amoonguss and Decidueye, whereas Gooey can punish physical attackers like Flygon and Paldean Tauros-W, allowing its teammates to outspeed and pick them off. An EV spread consisting of 76 HP / 252 SpA / 180 Spe with a Modest nature allows Goodra to better handle attacks from Munkidori and Chandelure while letting it outspeed Jolly Incineroar as well as Adamant Basculegion-M and Decidueye. Alternatively, Goodra can fully invest in Speed, allowing it to outpace foes like Toxtricity. Tera Poison lets Goodra be immune to any poison attempts from Galarian Slowbro, Amoonguss, and Alolan Muk while letting it better handle Fairy-types like Diancie and Scream Tail. Tera Steel allows it to better handle special wallbreakers like Toxtricity, Scream Tail, and Porygon-Z while giving it useful Fairy, Dragon, and Ice resistances. Tera Fairy is similar to Tera Poison in that Goodra gains a Fighting resistance, but it also gives Goodra a Dragon immunity and a better defensive typing. Physical wallbreakers like Decidueye, Toxicroak, and Incineroar appreciate Goodra for handling physically defensive tanks such as Avalugg, Galarian Slowbro, and Gligar. In return, they handle special walls like Gastrodon, Porygon2, and Alolan Muk. Goodra partners well with Wish passers like Vaporeon and Sylveon, allowing Goodra to repeatedly switch in against foes like Chandelure and Kilowattrel. Steel-types like Bronzong, Copperajah, and Klefki are great teammates for Goodra, since they can handle Fairy-types such as Alolan Ninetales, Diancie, and Scream Tail. Goodra appreciates physical walls like Galarian Slowbro, Amoonguss, and Swampert; they can handle physical wallbreakers like Toxicroak and Flygon. In return, Goodra checks the common special wallbreakers like Chandelure, Kilowattrel, and Vaporeon. Entry hazard setters and special wallbreakers like Klefki, Swampert, and Inteleon appreciate Goodra's ability to remove Altaria's Heavy-Duty Boots and Porygon2's Eviolite. Wallbreakers like Flamigo, Chandelure, Munkidori, and Scyther appreciate its Toxic, which allows them to overwhelm their checks such as Avalugg, Porygon2, and Diancie. Fire Blast allows Goodra to hit Steel-types like Copperajah and Bronzong very hard, but Flamethrower can be used for its better accuracy. Sludge Wave lets it hit Fairy-types like Sylveon and Florges; however, Sludge Bomb can be used for its higher chance to poison. Hydro Pump targets Diancie as well as Fire-types like Chandelure and Incineroar. Thunderbolt lets Goodra reliably hit Water-types like Vaporeon and Milotic, but Dragon Pulse can be used for a reliable STAB attack that can be repeatedly spammed. Sap Sipper allows Goodra to be immune to Grass-type attacks from Amoonguss, while Gooey can punish physical attackers like Paldean Tauros-W and Infernape by dropping their Speed, allowing it to revenge kill them. Goodra can invest in fully in Speed, allowing it to outspeed foes like Breloom and Toxtricity, but an alternative EV spread of 76 HP / 252 SpA / 180 Spe with a Modest nature allows Goodra to better handle attacks from Munkidori and Chandelure while still outpacing foes like Jolly Incineroar and Adamant Decidueye. Tera Poison boosts Sludge Wave and Sludge Bomb while giving Goodra the ability to better handle foes like Toxicroak, Sylveon, and Flamigo. On the other hand, Tera Dragon boosts the power of Goodra's STAB attacks, letting it do major damage to threats like Alolan Muk, Gastrodon, and Milotic. Goodra partners well with entry hazard setters like Bronzong, Klefki, and Overqwil, allowing it to pressure special walls like Porygon2 and Gastrodon. Fairy-types like Sylveon, Diancie, and Scream Tail can force Goodra to switch if it's locked into a Dragon-type attack; thus, Steel-types like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Klefki are good partners to check them. Hazard removers like Scyther, Brambleghast, and Avalugg allow Goodra to not be worn down by hazards. Goodra synergizes with other wallbreakers like Paldean Tauros-W, Incineroar, and Decidueye, allowing them to overwhelm defensive tanks like Galarian Slowbro, opposing Incineroar, and Porygon2. Pivot users like Inteleon, Flamigo, and Infernape can bring in foes like Milotic, Diancie, and Altaria; together, they can overwhelm these foes and let Goodra easily pick them off. Acid Spray lets Goodra limit special walls like Alolan Muk, Porygon2, and Vaporeon from getting too comfortable about tanking its attacks. Flamethrower gives Goodra the ability to hit Steel-types like Bronzong and Klefki, but Fire Blast can be used for its higher power, allowing it to potentially get a KO. Substitute allows Goodra to take advantage of passive walls like Vaporeon, Gastrodon, and Galarian Slowbro. Sludge Bomb hits Fairy-types like Alolan Ninetales and Scream Tail while letting it fish for poison, but Sludge Wave can be used for the higher power. Leftovers gives Goodra a form of recovery, which is especially useful on Substitute sets, while Heavy-Duty Boots lets it continuously switch into foes like Chandelure and Milotic without getting worn down by entry hazards. Sap Sipper allows Goodra to take advantage of Grass-types like Amoonguss and Decidueye. Alternatively, Gooey can benefit its teammates, allowing them to outspeed faster foes like Flygon and Cinccino. An EV spread of 76 HP / 252 SpA / 180 Spe paired with a Modest nature lets Goodra better tank attacks from threats like Toxtricity and Munkidori while outpacing foes such as Jolly Incineroar and Adamant Decidueye, but it can fully invest into Speed to let Goodra outspeed threats such as Basculegion-M and Toxtricity. Tera Poison gives Goodra useful resistances to Fighting and Fairy and an immunity to any poison status from Alolan Muk and Galarian Slowbro while boosting the power of both Sludge Bomb and Sludge Wave. On the other hand, Tera Steel gives it the ability to better handle special wallbreakers like Sylveon, Munkidori, and Toxtricity. Goodra best partners with Pokemon like Inteleon, Munkidori, and Kilowattrel, since they can bring in passive threats like Gastrodon, Bronzong, and Porygon2 and allow it to easily take advantage of them. Wish passers such as Vaporeon and Scream Tail give Goodra another form of recovery, allowing it to repeatedly switch in against Chandelure and Basculegion-M. Goodra pairs best with Steel- and Poison-types like Bronzong, Amoonguss, and Klefki, as they can handle Fairy-types like Florges and Diancie. Physical walls like Overqwil, Amoonguss, and Swampert can handle physical attackers like Flygon, Infernape, and Scyther. Goodra can be pressured if it's repeatedly switching into entry hazards; thus, it appreciates hazard removal like Scyther, Brambleghast, and Avalugg. Pokemon like Basculegion-M, Flamigo, and Toxtricity appreciate Goodra's ability to break through common defensive walls like Bellibolt, Wo-Chien, and Gastrodon. Expert Belt gives a boost to Goodra's super effective coverage attacks. Assault Vest lets it better tank hits from special attackers like Alolan Ninetales and Chandelure, but it often prefers the entry hazard immunity, passive recovery, and extra power granted by Heavy-Duty Boots, Leftovers, and Choice Specs, respectively. Surf can be used over Hydro Pump on Choice Specs sets due to its better accuracy. Power Whip lets it better handle specially defensive Water-types like Gastrodon and Milotic while also capitalizing on a Sap Sipper boost.
Flutter Mane (SV competitive strategy): Flutter Mane carves itself a niche as one of the most threatening wallbreakers in Ubers thanks to its incredibly powerful STAB combination, near-unrivaled Speed that is boosted further under sun, good coverage options, and great defensive typing, allowing it to operate as a solid revenge killer against Pokemon like Extreme Killer Arceus. Its Ghost / Fairy typing allows it to target a variety of threats, particularly the big three Pokemon in the tier— Miraidon, Koraidon, and Necrozma-DM— as well as Pokemon like Ting-Lu and Extreme Killer Arceus. However, Flutter Mane struggles to find opportunities to switch in safely thanks to its mediocre physical bulk and vulnerability to entry hazards. Likewise, some special walls like Ho-Oh and Arceus-Water can take an attack and potentially threaten to status Flutter Mane or flat out KO it. Psyshock is Flutter Mane's best option against Clodsire and Eternatus. Alternatively, Mystical Fire can be used, being Flutter Mane's best option against Pokemon like Zacian-C and being boosted under sun. Power Gem is extremely valuable coverage, allowing it to OHKO offensive and defensive Ho-Oh after a bit of chip. Tera Fairy boosts Moonblast, allowing Flutter Mane to hit damage thresholds like 2HKOing Calm Mind Kyogre and Ting-Lu after a slight amount of chip while giving it a useful resistance to Dark-type attacks like Chien-Pao and Kingambit's Sucker Punch, although it removes its immunity to Extreme Speed. Tera Stellar is an option, giving Flutter Mane a one-time boost to any of its attacks, allowing it to outright OHKO any Ho-Oh variant while still retaining its valuable immunity to Extreme Speed. However, it is worthless after Flutter Mane uses a move, as that move will then not be boosted for the rest of the game. When using Flutter Mane, Koraidon is a near-obligatory partner; Koraidon sets up sun, which enables Protosynthesis, as well as pivoting Flutter Mane into Pokemon it can beat like Landorus-T, opposing Koraidon, and Necrozma-DM. Other pivots like Miraidon and Landorus-T give Flutter Mane a safe opportunity to come into the field and wallbreak safely. Offensive Pokemon like Extreme Killer Arceus, Deoxys-A, and Kyogre all appreciate Flutter Mane wearing down their checks like Necrozma-DM and Miraidon. Physical attackers like Zacian-C, Groudon, and Ho-Oh make it difficult for Flutter Mane to come in safely and wallbreak; Pokemon that can take on these threats like one's own Ho-Oh, Necrozma-DM, and Arceus-Water all make good partners. Spikes support from Clodsire and Ting-Lu can give Flutter Mane extra support and chip Arceus into the range of Tera Fairy-boosted Moonblast. Flutter Mane has a terrible matchup against Sticky Web teams, as it has terrible bulk and is forced to gain a Special Attack boost from Protosynthesis when affected by Sticky Web, so partners like Extreme Killer Arceus and Calyrex-I can ease the matchup. Flutter Mane covers the Fairy-type teamslot on teams, giving them flexibility with picking an Arceus forme and Tera types. This set takes advantage of Flutter Mane's great strength and coverage to become a fearsome wallbreaker. Power Gem lets Flutter Mane destroy Ho-Oh, an otherwise perfect counter to Flutter Mane, but has very little practical use otherwise. Calm Mind lets Flutter Mane reliably break through defensive Arceus formes like Arceus-Ground and Arceus-Fairy for the benefit of teammates like Koraidon and Miraidon. Psyshock hits Clodsire and Eternatus, while Mystical Fire hits Zacian-C, but both have little practical use beyond hitting their intended targets. Tera Fairy is the preferred Tera type with Calm Mind. Tera Stellar is preferred when not running Calm Mind, as Flutter Mane's coverage moves can struggle to OHKO their intended targets. For example, Ho-Oh and Zacian-C can normally survive Power Gem and Mystical Fire, respectively, from full HP. However, with Tera Stellar, Flutter Mane's coverage moves are favored to OHKO these Pokemon. Tera Stellar is also useful for boosting Moonblast's power while keeping Flutter Mane's immunity to Extreme Speed from Extreme Killer Arceus, allowing Flutter Mane to pick it off from higher HP. Choice Scarf Koraidon is Flutter Mane's best friend, as Koraidon provides Flutter Mane with sun and pivot support. Koraidon also appreciates Flutter Mane threatening Koraidon's checks for it, like Landorus-T and Ho-Oh. Another good partner is Miraidon, which can work with Flutter Mane to overwhelm shared checks such as Arceus-Ground and Arceus-Fairy. Spikes support from Gliscor and Ting-Lu are generally good for wallbreakers like Flutter Mane, but Flutter Mane in particular enjoys Spikes weakening its checks, as it's not easy to revenge kill courtesy of its impressive Speed and good defensive typing. Thus, Spikes allows Flutter Mane to continue being threatening even against fast-paced offensive teams, especially as its low bulk makes it somewhat difficult to safely get on the field; it can also be forced out by Pokemon like Zacian-C if not carrying Mystical Fire. Entry hazard control in the form of Giratina-O's Defog is also an option to increase Flutter Mane's longevity, as otherwise Flutter Mane gets worn down very quickly by entry hazards and Life Orb recoil.
Flamigo (SV competitive strategy): Flamigo's unique offensive typing and access to U-turn to pivot make it stand out from the other Fighting-types in NU. Scrappy allows Flamigo to hit Ghost-types like Chandelure and Hisuian Typhlosion as well as Tera Ghost users like Cinccino and Porygon-Z, which would usually block its Close Combat. Choice Scarf allows Flamigo to consistently revenge kill faster threats like Inteleon, Kilowattrel, and Tornadus, while Choice Band gives Flamigo the ability to 2HKO defensive tanks like Galarian Slowbro and Vaporeon with entry hazard support. However, faster Choice Scarf users, such as Flygon and Munkidori, threaten and can easily revenge kill Flamigo with their STAB attacks. Additionally, Flamigo’s STAB attacks can be easily played around thanks to it being Choice-locked and its STAB moves inviting common switch-ins like Galarian Slowbro, Bronzong, and Gligar. Flamigo also faces competition from other Fighting-types like Toxicroak, Paldean Tauros-W, and Paldean Tauros-F, since they offer better defensive typings and the ability to run other sets. Flamigo easily forces out Steel-, Fighting-, Grass-, and Dark-types like Registeel, Paldean Tauros-W, Amoonguss, and Incineroar, which grants it free turns to use Roost, allowing it to maintain longevity and use Brave Bird more often. Throat Chop can be run so that Flamigo can better threaten Bronzong as well as users of sound moves like Sylveon, Scream Tail, and Toxtricity. Choice Scarf allows Flamigo to outspeed normally faster Pokemon like Inteleon and Cinccino. Alternatively, Flamigo can run Choice Band, making it a very strong wallbreaker that can overwhelm defensive tanks like Galarian Slowbro and Diancie. Tera Fighting gives Close Combat a bit of a push, letting Flamigo pressure foes like Swampert and Diancie. Tera Flying, on the other hand, gives Brave Bird an extra power boost, allowing it to 2HKO foes like Overqwil and Tentacruel. Choice Band Flamigo pairs greatly with other pivots like Flygon, Munkidori, Incineroar, and Raikou, as they can draw in Amoonguss, Registeel, opposing Incineroar, and Goodra for it while putting pressure on many of its checks like Scream Tail, Overqwil, Milotic, and Gligar. Psychic-types like Munkidori, Uxie, and Meloetta appreciate Flamigo for checking Steel- and Dark-types like Registeel, Incineroar, Scrafty, and Alolan Muk; in return, they handle Poison-types like Galarian Slowbro, Dragalge, and Tera Poison Milotic. Flamigo appreciates Steel-type teammates like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Registeel for checking Ice- and Fairy-types such as Alolan Ninetales, Alolan Sandslash, Sylveon, and Scream Tail. The aforementioned Steel-types also help Flamigo handle faster Choice Scarf users like Flygon and Munkidori, since they can easily revenge kill them. Choice Scarf Flamigo synergizes greatly with special wallbreakers like Toxtricity, Chandelure, and Inteleon, since they can handle common physically defensive Pokemon like Swampert, Avalugg, and Gligar. In return, Flamigo can threaten common specially defensive foes like Porygon2, Gastrodon, and Alolan Muk. Swords Dance Flamigo aims to capitalize on passive foes such as Wo-Chien and Swampert to set up and then throw off boosted attacks to break through the opposing team. On balanced teams, Flamigo uses Roost so that it can repeatedly come in regardless of Stealth Rock being up and take advantage of the aforementioned walls, not worrying about their Leech Seed and Knock Off. In contrast, Flamigo runs Agility on hyper offense teams so that it can run through faster teams, outspeeding even Choice Scarf users such as Flygon, Munkidori, and Paldean Tauros-W . Not running an item allows Flamigo to use the drawback-free Acrobatics over the health-wasting Brave Bird, whereas Sitrus Berry eases setup for Flamigo on hyper offense builds while allowing it to still use Acrobatics later. The second EV spread is for Flamigo on hyper offensive teams, as it maximizes its Attack and, after an Agility, allows it to outspeed Speed Booster Energy Scream Tail. Tera Steel lets Flamigo take a hit from Munkidori, Choice Scarf Flamigo, and Sylveon in a pinch so that it can retaliate with an Acrobatics or, in Sylveon's case, capitalize on them better. Alternatively, Tera Electric and Ground give Flamigo an immunity to Klefki's Thunder Wave. However, for a paralysis immunity, Tera Electric is better, as Bellibolt's Static can circumvent Tera Ground. Additionally, Tera Electric lets Flamigo use Kilowattrel as setup fodder and allows it to take a Brave Bird from opposing Flamigo in a pinch. Tera Ground offers a full immunity to Electric-type moves from Kilowattrel and Bellibolt, though, meaning Flamigo won't be getting constantly chipped like it would be with Tera Electric. Flamigo's biggest enemy is Bellibolt, and because of this, it appreciates any way to wear it down, whether that be through entry hazard stacking with aid from setters such as Spikes Klefki, Diancie, and Gastrodon as well as Stealth Rock Flygon, in tandem with Knock Off users like Incineroar and Cinccino, or by checking it with Ground-types like Gligar, Flygon, and Swampert. Pivots like Munkidori, Cinccino, Basculegion-M, and Flygon pair well with Roost Flamigo, bringing in Steel- and Grass-type foes like Copperajah, Wo-Chien, and Amoonguss, which it can take advantage of. Flamigo's middling Speed leads it to rely on partners like Rhyperior, Bronzong, and Bellibolt on balance teams so that it can better position itself around common offensive threats like Kilowattrel, Munkidori, and Tornadus. Double Dance Flamigo sets love dual screens Klefki and Sableye as well as Aurora Veil Alolan Ninetales, since they help lessen the burden on Flamigo's bulk to survive turns as it sets up. On these dual screens teams, partners often are fellow setup sweepers such as Flygon, Toxtricity, Drednaw, Scream Tail, and Cinccino. Flygon and Toxtricity can capitalize on Bellibolt and Galarian Slowbro, which Flamigo often falls against; Flygon, Drednaw, and Cinccino can work in tandem with Flamigo to chip away at walls like Gligar, Swampert, and Diancie; and Toxtricity and Scream Tail can nail physically defensive Pokemon such as Sylveon and Bellibolt for Flamigo while it takes care of special walls like Gastrodon and Copperajah for them. Swords Dance Flamigo can use Protective Pads to avoid adverse contact effects such as paralysis from Bellibolt's Static and chip damage from Galarian Slowbro's Rocky Helmet. However, this forces Flamigo to rely on Brave Bird instead of the more reliable Acrobatics, needing to take recoil and, consequently, use Roost constantly, which can make Flamigo more passive than it would prefer.
Beheeyem (BW competitive strategy): Beheeyem is among the best Pokemon in PU as one of the more harrowing wallbreakers to face. Beheeyem's sky-high base 125 Special Attack mixed with Analytic means that it hits like a truck, cleanly OHKOing a significant portion of the tier and even 2HKOing some special walls. Beheeyem has three ways to leverage this power: a bulky setup set for stallbreaking, Choice Specs for immediate wallbreaking power, and Trick Room for sweeping late-game. However, none of this means that Beheeyem isn't without its counters. Walls like Scraggy and Bronzor can counter Beheeyem no matter the set, but other choices like Audino and Shiftry can reasonably counter it depending on the set. With maxed-out physical bulk, Beheeyem becomes surprisingly tanky and gets many opportunities to switch in and set up because of it. The choice between Nasty Plot and Calm Mind comes down largely to preference: Nasty Plot gives more immediate power and is the more common pick, but Calm Mind adds further bulk, making it easier for further setup. Signal Beam can be used for breaking through bulky Psychic-types like Duosion while still hitting most Dark-types like Shiftry, but Hidden Power Fighting hits Scraggy for super effective damage. Recover is the chosen last move to keep Beheeyem healthy to tank more hits for the team and itself. This set of Beheeyem has the tradeoff of more immediate power compared to the other sets but provides the team with a bulky switch-in for Fighting-types like Monferno. Beheeyem also enjoys being brought in by U-turn or Volt Switch to preserve bulk and potentially buy a turn to set up with. For this, Pokemon such as Monferno and Zebstrika also make good partners with the added bonus that the two listed examples also tend to bring in walls like Stunfisk that Beheeyem can set up on. This set trades the bulk of the above set to maximize Beheeyem's bone-crushing power. The EVs are for outspeeding Audino and 2HKOing with Psychic, with the rest of the EVs thrown into needed bulk. Signal Beam and Hidden Power Fighting are both coverage options that hit common switch-ins to Beheeyem such as Duosion and Klang, respectively, while still hitting Dark-type switch-ins like Zweilous. Trick is for walls this set can't overcome otherwise like Bronzor, crippling them by giving them Choice Specs. Beheeyem can still hit hard even without the Choice Specs, so Trick is a comfortable choice to regularly use if your opponent has a Bronzor, Scraggy, or other unassailable wall. This set is also prone to getting chipped down via entry hazards, status, and stray damage, so Pokemon that can help Beheeyem stay healthy such as Tentacool with Rapid Spin, Vileplume with Aromatherapy, and Audino with Wish are all good partners. Beheeyem is also commonly walled by Bronzor and Scraggy, so having a teammate like Monferno that can check them is also a great option. The key to utilizing this set is proper planning at Team Preview: seeing what Beheeyem can and can't break through is the best way to decide what move to lock into, how to get around counters, and when Beheeyem can simply let Psychic loose for some easy KOs. Trick Room takes Beheeyem's middling Speed and makes it into a fearsome late-game sweeper. A Quiet nature lowers Beheeyem's Speed further for Trick Room while also allowing Beheeyem to get Analytic boosts against some of the even slower Pokemon in the tier. Hidden Power Fighting is the preferred coverage for this set to more easily beak through Scraggy and Steel-types like Klang, but Signal Beam is also a good option for hitting Psychic-types like Duosion while still hitting common Dark-types like Shiftry and Zweilous. Recover is a solid option for keeping Beheeyem healthy from Life Orb recoil and gives Beheeyem the longevity to act as both a mid-game wallbreaker and a late-game sweeper, but replacing it with Signal Beam to round out coverage for a more potent sweep is also a fine option. Life Orb gives Beheeyem as much power as possible, as this set does not set up nor utilize Analytic during Trick Room. Like most sweepers, the timing of Beheeyem's Trick Room sweep is everything. Waiting until walls such as Bronzor are either crippled or KOed is key so Beheeyem can grab as many KOs as possible during the few turns Trick Room is up. As such, pairing Trick Room Beheeyem with a teammate like Monferno and Simisear can help immensely to help clear the way of common walls like Bronzor and Scraggy. Beheeyem also appreciates racking up as much chip damage as possible before the sweep, and entry hazards are a key part of that; hazard setters such as Torterra and Dwebble are solid choices for this role. Beheeyem also appreciates help wearing down the opposing team and coming in safely with U-turn or Volt Switch, and Zebstrika is a particularly good partner for this, as Zebstrika tends to attract and chip down similar counters to Beheeyem.
Beheeyem (XY competitive strategy): Due to Beheeyem's base 125 Special Attack and Analytic, often coupled with a Choice Specs, it hits extremely hard. Decent bulk makes it able to survive a hit and fire off strong Psychic-type attacks more than once per game, and it has a pretty good movepool with a lot of coverage options. However, Beheeyem has a bad typing with a nasty weakness to Knock Off, and its low Speed makes it easy for the plethora of faster Pokemon in the tier to revenge kill it if not inside Trick Room. Nasty Plot boosts Beheeyem's Special Attack to extremely high levels, which allows it to blast its way through defensively oriented teams. Psychic hits very hard and does a huge amount of damage against any Pokemon that does not resist it. Signal Beam hits the Dark- and Psychic-types that are immune to and resist Psychic, such as Cacturne and Grumpig, super effectively. Alternatively, Thunderbolt allows Beheeyem to hit Vullaby super effectively and gives it good coverage. Lastly, Recover keeps Beheeyem alive as it boosts and consistently takes damage from foes. Analytic is the preferred ability for Beheeyem, as it provides an additional boost to its attacks, taking advantage of its low Speed. 248 HP EVs and 236 Defense EVs are used to buff Beheeyem's bulk as much as possible. Additionally, 24 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature allow Beheeyem to 2HKO physically defensive Clefairy after a Nasty Plot boost with Psychic and gives it a high chance to OHKO Vullaby with Thunderbolt. Lastly, Colbur Berry in conjunction with Nasty Plot ensures that Beheeyem is not ended prematurely against a Dark-type such as Pawniard or Krokorok, while Leftovers provides Beheeyem with passive recovery. As mentioned earlier, Beheeyem is used as a wallbreaker and can sweep in some games. This set works best against offense and balance, destroying a lot of teams by just spamming Psychic. Try not to let Beheeyem get afflicted by bad poison or burn, because status can potentially hinder its ability of sweeping or wallbreaking. Try to bring Beheeyem in on passive Pokemon such as Clefairy or on predicted Choicelocked- Psychics or Fighting-type attacks from Mr. Mime or Stoutland to setup. Beheeyem is also able to threaten out Pokemon such as Muk and Clefairy with Psychic, so this is another great time to set up Nasty Plot. Like all Pokemon, Beheeyem appreciates Stealth Rock to increase the chance of KOing foes. Fighting-types such as Monferno and offensive Combusken can get rid of Dark-types that threaten Beheeyem. Additionally, Beheeyem breaks down slower, passive Pokemon, which benefits setup sweepers and cleaners such as Zebstrika, Simipour, and Rotom-F. Wallbreakers such as Stoutland and offensive Mawile can break through Beheeyem, so teammates like defensive Mawile and Tangela can be used to help handle them. Psychic is Beheeyem's strongest STAB move and hits incredibly hard coming off a base 125 Special Attack stat boosted by a Choice Specs and Analytic. Psyshock is an alternative STAB move that hits special walls such as Audino and Munchlax harder, but it is weaker against other targets due to its lower Base Power. Signal Beam hits opposing Psychic- and Dark-types such as Duosion and Grumpig, which resist or are immune to Beheeyem's STAB move. Hidden Power Ground hits Steel-types such as Probopass and Pawniard, which could otherwise freely switch into Beheeyem. Trick allows Beheeyem to cripple the opponent's special walls by locking them into a move. 44 Speed EVs allow Beheeyem to outspeed an uninvested defensive Golem and other base 45's. It is advised to use a little more Speed, however, as Golem often run a little bit of Speed. 252 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature maximize Beheeyem's damage output. The leftover EVs go into HP to make Beheeyem more capable of taking hits. Analytic boosts Beheeyem's damage even more and almost always activates because Beheeyem is very slow. Choice Specs makes Beheeyem incredibly powerful. Because Beheeyem is Choice-locked, this set requires a lot of prediction to work; if you predict wrong Beheeyem will be forced to switch out and take entry hazard damage each time it comes in again. This set works best early-game to break through special walls such as Audino and Grumpig or to weaken them for another teammate to break through later in the game. Tricking Beheeyem's Choice Specs onto special walls cripples them enormously, as it forces them to use only one move. Because Beheeyem is almost always going to move last, it does not like taking unnecessary damage by switching into attacks. Thus, you ideally send out Beheeyem after one of your Pokemon has fainted, by giving it free switches with U-turn or Volt Switch, or with double switches. Like all Pokemon, Beheeyem appreciates Stealth Rock to increase the chance of KOing Pokemon. Special sweepers such as Regice and Combusken appreciate Beheeyem weakening special walls so they can break through them late-game. Monferno can take care of the Dark-type Pokemon that threaten Beheeyem, although they have to watch out for Mightyena's Play Rough. Trick Room uses Beheeyem's crippling Speed to its advantage to make it faster than nearly every Pokemon under Trick Room. Psychic is Beheeyem's strongest and preferred STAB move. Signal Beam gives Beheeyem more coverage against Dark- and Psychic-types such as Cacturne and opposing Beheeyem, which resist Beheeyem's STAB move. Thunderbolt allows Beheeyem to OHKO Vullaby and deal more to Pawniard whereas Shadow Ball OHKOes most Misdreavus variants after Stealth Rock damage and hits Metang hard. Hidden Power Ground is an option to hit Steel-types such as Probopass and Pawniard, which would otherwise be able to freely switch into Beheeyem, super effectively. However, it hits Metang for less damage than Shadow Ball does. 252 HP EVs maximize Beheeyem's bulk, and 252 Special Attack EVs maximize the damage Beheeyem can dish out. A Quiet nature is used over a Modest one to be even faster in Trick Room. Analytic is the preferred ability because although Beheeyem usually won't be outsped in Trick Room, it can still boost Beheeyem's damage output if Trick Room is not up yet. A Life Orb is the item of choice, as it allows Beheeyem to hit very hard while still being able to switch moves. Speed IVs are minimized to make Beheeyem even faster in Trick Room. This set is meant to be a late-game sweeper that cleans up after the opponent's team has been weakened enough for Beheeyem to KO everything. Beheeyem should set up Trick Room against weaker Pokemon such as Zebstrika or Pokemon that cannot deal that much damage to it, such as Probopass. It can also set up Trick Room against defensive Pokemon such as Golem. Beheeyem should not switch into attacks, because if it does there is a good chance that it will not have enough health left to set up Trick Room. Even if it does, Beheeyem might not be able to sweep due to Life Orb recoil making it faint. If using this set on a dedicated Trick Room team, do not be afraid to sacrifice Beheeyem. Trick Room teams cannot afford to waste too many precious turns by switching, nor do they like losing momentum if the opponent predicts a switch. Other slow but strong Pokemon, such as Marowak and Rampardos, greatly appreciate Trick Room making them capable of outspeeding more Pokemon. Stealth Rock support is useful to grab some extra KOs against Pokemon such as Ninetales, and Stoutland. Good Stealth Rock users would be Golem, Marowak, and Rampardos. Wallbreakers such as Chatot, Nasty Plot Raichu, and mixed Simipour can weaken special walls for Beheeyem. Fighting-types like Monferno can defeat the Dark-types that threaten Beheeyem. A bulky set with Calm Mind, Recover, Psyshock, and Signal Beam could be used but is outclassed by Duosion, because Duosion has Magic Guard to protect it from status.
Beheeyem (SM competitive strategy): Beheeyem is one of the strongest wallbreakers in ZU thanks to Analytic, which makes it very difficult to switch into, and its good coverage options make it very threatening to play against. Beheeyem also has access to setup moves such as Nasty Plot and Calm Mind, which allow it to become even more threatening, and its solid bulk usually allows it to survive at least one hit from offensive Pokemon and makes it more capable of taking advantage of Analytic. Furthermore, even though it is easily outsped, it can still pose a significant problem for the enemy team, as Analytic heavily benefits from its lack of Speed. These qualities often allow Beheeyem to punish many defensive Pokemon such as Mareanie and Gourgeist-XL that allow it to switch in safely. Beheeyem's biggest weakness is its Speed tier, which leaves it susceptible to getting revenge killed by a wide range of Pokemon—it can be outsped by wallbreakers, which are generally considered slow, like Choice Band Komala, and is often left open to being crippled by walls. Beheeyem also faces tough competition as a Choice Specs user from Exeggutor, who boasts a higher Speed stat and can threaten switch-ins with a powerful STAB Leaf Storm. Psychic is Beheeyem's most reliable STAB move and hits physically defensive Pokemon such as Golem and Pyukumuku, whereas Psyshock functions as a slightly weaker option that allows it to threaten specially defensive Pokemon like Komala, Lickilicky, and Kecleon. Shadow Ball gives it a strong, super effective coverage move to hit Bronzor with and provides coverage for other Psychic-types such as opposing Beheeyem. Hidden Power Fighting gives Beheeyem an option to hit Pawniard and Probopass as well as some other Steel-types. It also provides super effective coverage for Dark-types and gives Beheeyem perfect neutral coverage when used with Shadow Ball. Another coverage option is Signal Beam, which gives Beheeyem a good chance to OHKO Silvally-Dark after Stealth Rock damage. Finally, Trick allows Beheeyem to cripple opposing walls and can make Beheeyem less reliant on predicting switches. Beheeyem's low Speed tier allows it to make frequent use of Analytic to power up its attacks. Its EVs are also invested into HP rather than Speed, as Beheeyem is unlikely to outspeed many threats even with investment, whereas HP allows it to take most attacks. 208 HP EVs minimize the damage Beheeyem takes from Stealth Rock, and 48 Speed EVs allow Beheeyem to outspeed Mareanie and uninvested Golem. This is important because Beheeyem excels at punishing a switch to Mareanie, and outspeeding Mareanie means Beheeyem can avoid Knock Off and OHKO with Psychic, or Psyshock if Stealth Rock is up. Beheeyem's primary objective should be to open holes in the opposing team that its teammates can take advantage of. It is very effective to bring Beheeyem in from a pivot or double switch, as this can bring it in at full health. If the opponent has no strong defensive checks, the most common scenario after doing this is that the opponent will choose a Pokemon to sacrifice and attempt to revenge kill—this means Beheeyem requires partners that are able to take on offensive Pokemon that threaten it to continue dealing damage. Beheeyem also has enough bulk to be brought in on a resisted move from an offensive Pokemon or a coverage move without a STAB bonus; examples of this include Mr. Mime's Psychic and Floatzel's Ice Beam. However, this is risky and can lead to Beheyeem becoming very worn down. If the opponent is likely to switch to a defensive check that resists Psychic, like Bronzor or another Beheeyem, a prediction can be made to opt for use of Shadow Ball instead. This will 2HKO specially defensive Bronzor if it is brought in, which prevents it from setting up Stealth Rock or crippling Beheeyem with Toxic, as Beheeyem outspeeds it. Similarly, if the opponent has a Dark-type Pokemon like Silvally-Dark, a prediction can be made to use Hidden Power Fighting or Signal Beam. Trick should be used either to free up Beheeyem's predictions or simply to get rid of Choice Specs in the hope of crippling a foe if Beheeyem is no longer needed for wallbreaking. This is especially good for the entry hazard setters Shuckle and physically defensive Golem, as Beheeyem outspeeds them. After this, Beheeyem's final option is to make a trade. Beheeyem is unlikely to get KOed by any move that is not super effective with a STAB bonus but has a good chance of being able to KO the opposing Pokemon. Due to its low Speed, once it is placed on low health, it will likely lose most of its value but could still be used to KO even slower Pokemon like a boosted Curse Muk. Beheeyem appreciates Pokemon that can grant it safe entry; this is usually through pivoting, but Beheeyem also synergizes well with Pokemon that lure in defensive Pokemon so it can come in. An example of this is Silvally-Fighting, as it deals with Knock Off extremely well and can pivot with U-turn. Other Silvally formes like Silvally-Water and Silvally-Dragon are also strong choices, as they can also lure in defensive Pokemon and pivot. Beheeyem also appreciates trappers like Alolan Golem and Probopass because of their ability to remove Steel-type Pokemon, allowing Beheeyem to use its STAB Psychic more easily and more often. Probopass in particular is a good partner because it can bring Beheeyem in safely through a slow Volt Switch, and Beheeyem can check Fighting-types that threaten Probopass, such as Silvally-Fighting, in return. A good partner for Beheeyem is also Monferno, which is walled by Mareanie but can use U-turn to allow Beheeyem a particularly easy entry onto the field and also help Beheeyem deal with Bronzor and other Steel-types when Beheeyem has been locked into Psychic. Late-game cleaners synergize well with Beheeyem, as it can break through walls which may otherwise threaten them, which can allow them to win later on. Examples of this include Combusken, Swanna, and Electivire, all of which can make up for Beheeyem's lack of Speed and appreciate Beheeyem's ability to threaten Mareanie and Gourgeist-XL respectively. Beheeyem appreciates entry hazard setters like Golem, as they can contribute damage and give Beheeyem a higher chance to OHKO a foe, such as Silvally-Dark with Signal Beam. Hazard removers also pair well with Beheeyem, as they can allow Beheeyem to avoid the damage it has to take when it switches in, thus possibly allowing it to withstand another hit and use another attack. Komala, Silvally-Fighting, and other Silvally formes are great for this. Beheeyem is strong on balance teams because it can often require a teammate to absorb damage when it needs to switch out on a revenge killer. This means it can synergize well with Pokemon like Altaria, Golem, and Gourgeist-XL. Nasty Plot makes Beheeyem extremely powerful and threatening while still allowing it to use coverage and recover its health. Beheeyem can also opt to use Calm Mind, which allows Beheeyem to maximize its bulk and boost its Special Attack, making it too bulky for specially offensive Pokemon such as Floatzel and Electivire to safely handle while still having the offensive presence to deal with defensive Pokemon. Psychic is Beheeyem's preferred STAB move and handles physically defensive Pokemon better, whereas Psyshock handles specially defensive Pokemon such as Komala better. Using Psyshock and Psychium Z gives Beheeyem the opportunity to eliminate a physically bulky threat by targeting its Special Defense. Signal Beam is used as Beheeyem's coverage move to allow it to deal with Dark-types while maintaining a neutral hit on Bronzor and Pawniard. Optionally, Shadow Ball can be used instead of Signal Beam if the team is very weak to Bronzor. This still provides super effective coverage against Psychic-types but gives up coverage against Dark-types. Recover allows Beheeyem to use its bulk investment to stay on the field dealing damage. It also allows Beheeyem to set up against some offensive Pokemon and prevents it from getting chipped too much by bulky sweepers like Muk. Beheeyem runs Colbur Berry to stop it from being forced out by Dark-types, notably Pawniard and Silvally-Dark. Beheeyem can also run Psychium Z, which stops it from being crippled by Trick and Switcheroo and gives it the ability to use a devastating STAB attack or set up a Calm Mind through Taunt. As Psychium Z cannot be removed by Knock Off, it also gives Beheeyem a better matchup against Pawniard. Beheeyem prefers to run Defense EVs for a better matchup against most prominent threats. For example, it allows Beheeyem to always avoid the OHKO from Komala's Return and Pinsir's unboosted X-Scissor, and it softens damage from physical Floatzel and Golem, avoiding a 2HKO from variants that don't run Choice Band. Beheeyem can make use of its bulk and decent Special Attack to win matchups against some physically offensive Pokemon, and it takes advantage of balance, as it punishes the opponent for switching to a defensive Pokemon by setting up. This combination can make it very threatening for balance teams. The ideal time to use Nasty Plot or Calm Mind is when you predict the opponent will switch out their Pokemon in order to preserve it; even if Beheeyem lacks the power to OHKO the foe without any boosts, it is possible to bluff the Choice Specs set in order to force the switch necessary to set up. Beheeyem can take advantage of its high physical bulk and set up against some offensive Pokemon that do not run Toxic, and using Recover expands the number of Pokemon that Beheeyem can check because of its bulk and gives it more chances to set up. Beheeyem can also set up in order to act as a wallbreaker. However, it should be wary of Toxic while doing this. Unlike most sweepers, Beheeyem's role is not to punish a mistake and clean the rest of the opponent's team—it is too slow for this to be possible. Rather, Nasty Plot and Calm Mind allow Beheeyem to make some strong trades and get a lot of value, as it is usually able to take out a few Pokemon after a strong setup. Because Beheeyem is limited in the amount of coverage it can use on this set, it appreciates Pokemon that are able to handle its common checks. It also appreciates trappers like Alolan Golem and Probopass, which can remove Pawniard, and Silvally-Dark, which can remove Bronzor. It appreciates pivoting, particularly from Parting Shot, because this gives Beheeyem a good opportunity to set up while the enemy is weakened. Silvally-Fighting in particular synergizes well with Beheeyem, providing good offensive synergy, giving the team the ability to deal with Dark-types and Steel-types, and giving momentum via Parting Shot or U-turn. Komala is also a great partner for Beheeyem because it can absorb status and Ghost-type attacks. It can also provide momentum using U-turn, which gives Beheeyem an easy entry and opportunities to set up. In return, Beheeyem does a good job of dealing with Fighting-types, which threaten Komala. This ability to check Fighting- and Psychic-types also means Beheeyem synergizes well with other Pokemon like Golem and Combusken. Trick Room is used to allow Beheeyem and possibly its teammates to gain a Speed advantage. This can allow Beheeyem to sweep the opposing team or set up the field for another Pokemon to come in that threatens the opponent's team. Psychic and Psyshock are Beheeyem's STAB moves—Psyshock can be used for better matchups against specially defensive Pokemon and Psychic for physically defensive Pokemon. Beheeyem runs Shadow Ball because it provides a way to hit Bronzor and threatens other Psychic-types. Hidden Power Fighting is useful for getting an OHKO on Pawniard as well as on Probopass after a tiny bit of chip damage. While using this, Beheeyem maintains perfect neutral coverage with Shadow Ball and keeps super effective coverage for Dark-types. Signal Beam is also a good coverage move, as it is super effective against Dark-types and Psychic-types; it deals more damage to Pokemon like Silvally-Dark compared to Hidden Power Fighting and does a better job of threatening Grass-types like Exeggutor. Life Orb maximizes Beheeyem's damage output while allowing it to freely use coverage and switch moves, whereas Colbur Berry gives Beheeyem a stronger matchup against Dark-types and can allow Beheeyem to take on Dark-types such as Pawniard and Silvally-Dark with appropriate coverage. The third option, Psychium Z, gives Beheeyem a one-time powerful STAB attack to break through bulky Pokemon. When coupled with Psyshock, Beheeyem is able to target both specially and physically defensive Pokemon. It also allows Beheeyem to use Trick Room through Taunt and prevents Beheeyem from being locked into Trick Room by Trick or Switcheroo. Beheeyem runs 0 Speed IVs to ensure it will outspeed the foe under Trick Room. Beheeyem can choose to run 8 IVs in Speed, allowing it to outspeed Bronzor and threaten to 2HKO under Trick Room with Life Orb Shadow Ball due to Analytic. Under Trick Room, Analytic may not activate, but the situations where Beheeyem prefers to attack still make Analytic the better ability to use. Synchronize is unreliable and does not help Beheeyem to fill its role as a wallbreaker. On a full Trick Room team, Beheeyem should be used to simultaneously set up Trick Room and take advantage of it—its bulk should allow it to take at least one hit to set up Trick Room for itself and its team. On balance or hyper offense, Trick Room can be used to allow Beheeyem to become a sweeper that synergizes with other slow Pokemon on the team. On these teams, Trick Room should be used cautiously, as it could give the opponent an advantage. Beheeyem functions best as a Trick Room sweeper if most of its checks are removed; its coverage allows it to deal with a lot of Pokemon that resist Psychic, but switching between coverage moves can waste Trick Room turns. Beheeyem can potentially countersweep the opposing team if it has enough turns to do so and no strong checks are present, and it can also be used solely to allow another Pokemon to sweep through Trick Room if the situation demands it. On a standard Trick Room team, Beheeyem appreciates partners that can set up Trick Room for itself and other attackers on the team. Carbink and Dusknoir are two solid options for setting Trick Room reliably so Beheeyem can utilize it in order to deal a vast amount of damage. Trick Room attackers that pair well with Beheeyem include Wishiwashi and Marowak, which are common options on a full Trick Room team, and Golem and Granbull, which work well outside of these full Trick Room teams. Granbull in particular synergizes well with Beheeyem, as Trick Room can enhance its ability to wallbreak and open holes in the enemy team. It also has a good matchup against Dark-types and Intimidate to take a hit if Beheeyem is forced out. Outside of full Trick Room, Beheeyem also appreciates the utility provided by entry hazard setters such as Golem and Crustle as well as pivots like Komala that help it find opportunities to set up Trick Room. Beheeyem works best with Pokemon that take care of the very few checks it has. For example, if Beheeyem is not running Hidden Power Fighting, Pokemon such as Silvally-Fighting and Golem can be useful in a matchup against Probopass and Pawniard. On the Choice Specs set, Beheeyem has even more coverage moves than those listed; Energy Ball can deal more damage against various Ground-types and Water-types such as Golem and Pyukumuku, and Thunderbolt provides more damage against Pawniard than Signal Beam and also allows Beheeyem to better deal with Water-types such as Pyukumuku and Silvally-Water. These do, however, tend to provide inferior coverage to the options listed on the sets. On the other sets, there is the option of using Assault Vest, which allows Beheeyem to maximize its bulk and exploit Analytic in order to act as a special tank. The Trick Room set can use Ghostium Z to break Bronzor more easily without having to worry about Trick Room being up or recoil damage from Life Orb, but it also suffers from the loss of power and utility that other options offer.
Beheeyem (SS competitive strategy): Beheeyem acts as a defensive pivot that is able to use Future Sight and then pivot out into a partner with Teleport. Recover gives it sustainability, letting it switch reliably and constantly into walls and weaker attackers such as Tangela, Miltank, and Gurdurr. Thunderbolt is Beheeyem's best coverage option against Dark-types like Skuntank and Thievul; it also allows it to directly threaten foes like Qwilfish and Klinklang. Colbur Berry lets it take on Fighting-types like Sawk and Gurdurr which would hit it super effectively with Knock Off while also letting it pivot out against strong Dark-types like Shiftry and Silvally-Dark. Synchronize punishes Toxic users such as Miltank and Stunfisk that would try to beat Beheeyem. Beheeyem works best on balance teams with physical wallbreakers like Silvally-Dark, Lycanroc-N, and Sawk. Thanks to Future Sight, physical attackers can break through their checks like Palossand, Tangela, and Qwilfish, making it almost impossible to wall them. Beheeyem, however, is not a great wall, so it needs to be supported with other defensive Pokemon like Tangela, Altaria, Articuno, and Stunfisk that can wall powerful attackers such as the Silvally formes, Exeggutor, and Rotom that easily break through Beheeyem. Having a cleric such as Miltank or Alcremie is particularly important to reset Synchronize. Dark-type checks such as Throh, Skuntank, and Clefairy are also appreciated, because Colbur Berry isn't enough to mitigate Beheeyem's glaring weakness to them. Beheeyem acts as a defensive sweeper with Nasty Plot, able to stomach powerful hits, sit on passive walls thanks to Recover, and retaliate back with powerful Analytic-boosted STAB Psychic. Thunderbolt hits common Psychic-resistant or immune foes such as Klinklang, Galarian Rapidash, and Skuntank for neutral damage while also dealing significant damage to Articuno, one of the most common special walls. Colbur Berry lets it handle Fighting-types with Knock Off like Sawk and Gurdurr and prevent Dark-types like Skuntank and Silvally-Dark from forcing it out with their super effective STAB moves. This set works best on balance teams looking for a stallbreaker. Beheeyem works best when paired with an additional physical wall such as Tangela or Miltank to assist it versus strong physical attackers like Silvally-Dark, Thwackey, and Rhydon. Throh and Stunfisk make also for great partners, both being able to answer Rotom and Skuntank, which force out Beheeyem. Clerics like Miltank, Clefairy, and Articuno also make for great partners, taking care of Beheeyem's weakness to Toxic from passive walls such as Miltank and Stunfisk. Physical wallbreakers like the Silvally formes, Qwilfish, and Perrserker make for great partners that can take advantage of the special walls that Beheeyem forces in. Fast but weak attackers like Rapidash, Alolan Dugtrio, and Throat Spray Accelgor appreciate Beheeyem weakening opposing walls into their KO ranges. Thanks to Beheeyem's sky-high Special Attack stat, terrible Speed stat, and access to Trick Room, it is a staple on said archetype. Meteor Beam OHKOes Pokemon that can switch into Psychic like Alolan Persian, Skuntank, and Thievul, OHKOes specially defensive Pokemon like Articuno and Coalossal, and boosts its Special Attack stat without wasting a Trick Room turn on setup when used with Power Herb. Thunderbolt OHKOes Cramorant while 2HKOing Articuno at +1. It is also Beheeyem's strongest spammable option against Dark- and Steel-types. Analytic takes advantage of how well Beheeyem forces switches, and it exploits Beeheeyem's very low Speed in the rare instances it attacks outside of Trick Room. Due to Beheeyem's awful Speed, poor defensive typing, and merely decent bulk, it should mainly be used on dedicated Trick Room teams, as otherwise other Psychic-types and special wallbreakers outclass it. Other Trick Room setters, like Gourgeist-XL, Uxie, and Trevenant, can provide more chances for Beheeyem to attack without needing to set up Trick Room first, and teammates that lack Trick Room especially appreciate these chances. These teammates include Bouffalant, Flame Orb Throh, and Rhydon, which benefit from Beheeyem's wallbreaking and Trick Room, enabling them to more easily break holes against the opposition or clean late-game. Leftovers and Heavy-Duty Boots are options over Colbur Berry on the bulky sets; however, forgoing Colbur Berry makes Beheeyem very hard to use against Dark-types and jeopardizes its ability to check Fighting-types like Sawk and Gurdurr.
Tatsugiri (SV competitive strategy): Tatsugiri is a Nasty Plot sweeper that compresses offensive utility in its access to both Rapid Spin and Storm Drain. The former is not only a valid option for entry hazard removal but also one way that Tatsugiri may clean late-game when setting up on more passive foes like Bronzong and Coalossal. That being said, Tatsugiri is very frail, which limits its potential to set up both Nasty Plot and Rapid Spin, making it easier to revenge kill with priority and diminishes the impact of Storm Drain when Water-types like Paldean Tauros-W and Bruxish can OHKO it with their stronger coverage. Eject Pack is ran over Heavy-Duty Boots on some offensive VoltTurn teams, as the sacrifice to Tatsugiri's bulk and consistency in removing entry hazards could be worth it to preserve momentum and bring in a wallbreaker after using Draco Meteor. A Timid nature ensures Tatsugiri may revenge kill Adamant Skuntank and Bombirdier, but on teams where its revenge killing purposes are not as necessary, Tatsugiri may opt for a Modest nature, which enjoys some extra liberties like 2HKOing Decidueye with Draco Meteor. Tatsugiri's Tera typings are defensive, as they offer the strongest sweeping chances by limiting its revenge killers; Tera Fairy is generally the best, allowing Tatsugiri to wall opposing Tatsugiri and Paldean Tauros-W and resist Sucker Punch. Tera Ghost is another option to wall Paldean Tauros-W, and it also allows Tatsugiri to reliably revenge kill—or prevent the revenge kill from—Curse Arcanine. Lastly, Tera Normal is a niche option to avoid relevant Ghost-type attacks like Decidueye's Shadow Sneak and Choice Scarf Hoopa's Shadow Ball, with the minor benefit of buffing Rapid Spin. Tatsugiri may easily fit on a variety of teams due to its offensive utility, with a predilection for offensive structures, but it ultimately always needs careful positioning for it to get on the field due to its frailty. It will best offensively check entry hazard users like Mudsdale, Gligar, and Coalossal, so pivots like Staraptor, Scyther, and Kilowattrel are great at getting Tatsugiri in safely against these walls. Arcanine and Skuntank may lure these walls in as well, making for riskier albeit just as rewarding, positioning plays for Tatsugiri to double switch or simply come in on their Stealth Rock and Spikes. In return, these two offensive teammates put pressure on some of the specially defensive walls that Tatsugiri struggles with, like Florges and Copperajah. Fire- and Ground-types such as Paldean Tauros-F and Golurk will enjoy Tatsugiri's ability to deter Water-type attacks from walls and revenge killers alike, such as Milotic, Gastrodon, and Choice Scarf Paldean Tauros-W; use these matchups as setup opportunities for Tatsugiri. Defensive cores with walls such as Mudsdale, Galarian Slowbro, and Copperajah are good to rely on when Tatsugiri is forced out by faster revenge killers like Staraptor and Choice Scarf Florges. With Eject Pack, Tatsugiri will have a one-time switch on special walls like Copperajah and Gastrodon, so physical wallbreakers that enjoy the free switch-in like Flame Orb Heracross and Choice Band Paldean Tauros-F will make the most out of this interaction.
Liepard (BW competitive strategy): sweepers such as Carracosta, Samurott, and Braviary, or frail attackers such as Swellow, Drifblim, Zangoose, and Haunter, all of whom like free as Rotom-S, Regirock, Gardevoir, and Illumise, are appreciated to take example, Ludicolo, Seismitoad, Carracosta, Mantine, Gorebyss, Floatzel, Exeggutor, Shiftry, Sawsbuck, Victreebel, Rapidash, and Charizard. such as Alomomola, Regice, Torkoal, and even Wartortle perform similarly.
Liepard (XY competitive strategy): Prankster is one of the best abilities in the game, and Liepard can capitalize on it by using support moves such as Encore, Thunder Wave, and Rain Dance or Sunny Day to help its teammates. The threat of Encore alone can prevent the opponent's sweepers from setting up early in the match, while Thunder Wave provides a good catch-all response to sweepers that have already set up or faster threats like Floatzel in general. Meanwhile, this same ability also makes Liepard the face of many weather teams in NU, guaranteeing that at least one sweeper on their team will get a chance to shine regardless of the circumstances. STAB Knock Off, Sucker Punch, and Pursuit are also powerful tools that Liepard can use to cripple the opponent's Pokemon and inflict good damage. Liepard can even become a decent late-game sweeper itself with Nasty Plot, Dark Pulse, and Copycat, bypassing other priority attackers such as Shiftry and Samurott to become a unique threat. However, Liepard is extremely frail and shouldn't switch into anything other than obvious Psychic-type attacks; even then, Liepard risks being OHKOed by a stray Signal Beam from many Psychic-type Pokemon. It also lacks the raw power to break past bulky foes, limiting its effectiveness as an all-out attacker, and it struggles to fit all of the tools it wants on the same moveset. These factors make Liepard highly reliant both on good prediction when dealing with most foes to avoid being KOed and make the most of its opportunities to support its teammates and on good teambuilding to compensate for the moves it chooses not to run. Knock Off is one of the best moves in the tier and serves as a powerful STAB attack that Liepard can use to either revenge kill weakened threats or cripple bulkier responses by removing their items. Encore has fantastic synergy with Prankster, allowing Liepard to lock stat-boosting sweepers into moves such as Quiver Dance and Shift Gear so that it can attack them repeatedly, paralyze them, or switch to a teammate. It can also be used to punish Defog, Stealth Rock, Substitute, and many other non-attacking moves and to lock Psychic-types into their STAB attack if they want to try to KO Liepard with Signal Beam, making them easy to Pursuit trap if it's desired. Thunder Wave is a good option on bulky offense teams, paralyzing faster threats such as Tauros and Floatzel so that they can be finished off later on by slower teammates. It can also be used as an emergency response to sweepers such as Vivillon and Lilligant, as well as to weather sweepers if they manage to set up and use an attacking move before Liepard can disrupt them with Encore. Sucker Punch is a powerful priority attack and is superior to Thunder Wave on offense teams, which would rather have Liepard attempt to KO these threats directly or at least weaken them enough to be KOed by a faster teammate. U-turn also synergizes well with Encore and Thunder Wave, allowing Liepard to pivot out the turn after locking down the opponent's Pokemon. It capitalizes on the many switches Liepard forces and allows a teammate to come in for free if the foe stays in for some reason. Pursuit can be used alongside Sucker Punch and Encore, letting Liepard be a good trapper for offensive teams that struggle with Psychic-type Pokemon such as Calm Mind Musharna and Ghost-type Pokemon such as Rotom and Haunter. Maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature ensure that Liepard can use Encore before any other Pokemon can act, even other Prankster users, and ensures that Liepard can outrun Mismagius and Kadabra and revenge kill them. An Adamant nature can be used to power up Pursuit and other STAB attacks while still letting Liepard outspeed Timid Rotom. Maximum Attack investment ensures that Knock Off is able to reliably revenge kill weakened targets and inflict good chip damage during the early-game while also making U-turn able to do good damage to Malamar. Black Glasses boosts all of Liepard's STAB moves and is generally superior to Life Orb due to the lack of recoil. However, a Life Orb can be used if a more powerful U-turn is desired. Liepard's main aim is to support its teammates and give them good opportunities to either set up and sweep or break through the opponent's team. Liepard should not try to switch into foes unless it is very likely they will be using a non-attacking move, as it will be OHKOed by practically any neutral STAB attack. If they are very likely to use a non-attacking move, however, such as Lilligant using Quiver Dance after putting one of your Pokemon to sleep with Sleep Powder, Liepard should switch in, as the threat of Encore will either force them to switch out or lock them into their boosting move to be taken down by Knock Off and Pursuit. Sacrificing Liepard to land Thunder Wave on a foe is sometimes necessary to ensure a teammate can sweep in the late-game. Do not use Thunder Wave against bulky Pokemon, as they will likely just take the opportunity to wallop Liepard for no real penalty. Sucker Punch should only be used against faster Pokemon, and only if it is likely that they will try to attack Liepard. Otherwise, Liepard should use Encore to lock them into moves such as Roost and Substitute or use U-turn to pivot out. Knock Off can be spammed in the early-game at little cost and be used to cripple certain bulky foes by removing their item, such as Sliggoo and Ferroseed's Eviolite, making them easier for teammates to deal with. Pursuit should be used when a foe is locked into an unfavorable move, such as Psychic or Stealth Rock after being Encore locked, and is likely to switch. It can also be used if a foe is likely to switch out to avoid being revenge killed by Knock Off, such as a weakened Magmortar. However, Psychic- and Ghost-types commonly run Colbur Berry to make them less vulnerable to Dark-type attacks, so try to trigger the Berry before Pursuit trapping them, and avoid using the move in risky situations, particularly where Liepard risks being burned by Will-O-Wisp if it stays in. Setup sweepers highly appreciate Liepard's ability to lock down foes with Encore and U-turn and provide them with switch in and setup opportunities. Speed-boosting sweepers such as Vivillon, Ludicolo, and Barbaracle are especially deadly with the free turn that Liepard can provide them with. Fast offensive Pokemon such as Archeops and Floatzel similarly like Liepard's ability to shut down opposing setup sweepers that could threaten them later in the match. Fighting-type Pokemon such as Primeape and Hitmonchan synergize well with Liepard, as it can effectively trap and remove problematic foes to these Pokemon, such as Musharna, Rotom, and Mesprit, with Encore and Pursuit. Poison-type Pokemon can switch into the Fairy- and Fighting-types that like to switch into Liepard, such as Mega Audino and Hariyama. Garbodor is an especially good teammate, as it can provide Spikes support to help Liepard whittle down foes throughout the match, while Liepard can trap Xatu with Pursuit and prevent it from interfering with Garbodor's entry hazards. Tanks and wallbreakers such as Hariyama and Magmortar appreciate Liepard paralyzing or using Sucker Punch on faster offensive Pokemon such as Archeops that could otherwise revenge kill them, as well as using Knock Off to weaken defensive targets that require items for recovery, such as Weezing. Knock Off is Liepard's main STAB move, which does a huge amount of damage to any target that doesn't resist Dark while removing its item. Pursuit allows Liepard to trap Psychic- and Ghost-type Pokemon such as Mesprit, Haunter, Mismagius, Jynx, and Xatu. U-turn helps Liepard maintain momentum early-game against teams with hard counters to it such as Mega Audino, bulky Charizard, and Skuntank. Seed Bomb rounds out Liepard's coverage, giving it a way to deal significant damage to Rock-, Ground-, and Water-types such as Rhydon, Gastrodon, and Poliwrath. Alternatively, Play Rough gives Liepard powerful coverage versus Fighting-types such as Primeape, Hitmonchan, Hariyama, and Gurdurr, most notably achieving the OHKO on the former two. Finally, Gunk Shot nabs the 2HKO on Mega Audino after Stealth Rock as well as obliterates Clefairy and Grass-types such as Ludicolo, Lilligant, and Abomasnow. Maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature ensure Liepard can outrun base 105s and below such as Scyther, Mismagius, Manectric, and Charizard as well as Speed tie with Timid Pyroar. 252 Attack EVs coupled with Choice Band gives Liepard as much power as possible, allowing it to fire off very powerful Knock Offs. Limber protects Liepard from being crippled by Thunder Wave users such as Miltank, Xatu, Regirock, Clefairy, and Ferroseed. Knock Off can be spammed in the early-game to cripple certain bulky foes by removing their item, such as Steelix and Regirock's Leftovers as well as Gurdurr and Ferroseed's Eviolite, making them easier to wear down. Switch Liepard into predicted Psychic-type attacks from the likes of Xatu, Mesprit, and Claydol and attempt to Pursuit trap them as they switch out. However, be cautious of recklessly bringing Liepard into attacks, as it is very frail and will get KOed by coverage moves such as Choice Specs Mesprit's Ice Beam and Musharna's Signal Beam should the opponent predict a switch. Liepard should also make sure that any Colbur Berries have been used up before it attempts to trap Psychic-types, as they can OHKO Liepard with Signal Beam if they survive the hit. Pivot out with U-turn if the opponent has hard counters to Liepard, such as Mega Audino and bulky Charizard. It is sometimes better to pivot out of Fighting-types rather than use Knock Off as to prevent them from getting off a free attack or Rapid Spin, in Hitmonchan's case. Use the appropriate coverage move to punish switches, though be wary of locking Liepard into Gunk Shot, as Poison-type coverage is easy for dangerous setup sweepers like Rhydon and Klinklang to take advantage of. Fighting-types including Gurdurr, Primeape, and Hitmonchan love the Pursuit trapping support Liepard provides for eliminating pesky Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Rotom, Xatu, Mesprit, and Mismagius. In return, they can smash Rock- and Steel-types such as Regirock and Steelix, which Liepard has a hard time breaking past. Poison-types, for instance Weezing, Haunter, and Vileplume, are great partners, as they can pivot into Fighting-, Bug-, and Fairy-type moves, while in return, Liepard can trap Psychic-types such as Choice Specs Mesprit and Claydol. Garbodor is a particularly solid teammate, as it can provide Spikes support to help Liepard whittle down foes throughout the match, while Liepard can trap Xatu with Pursuit and prevent it from bouncing back Garbodor's entry hazards. Spikes and Toxic Spikes in general work very well with Liepard's trapping and pivoting capabilities, as its respectable coverage tends to force many switches. Furthermore, Volt Switch and U-turn users such as Rotom, Manectric, Scyther, and Primeape make for excellent partners alongside Liepard, as they help each other grab momentum and form a potent VoltTurn core. Lanturn and Mesprit are also beneficial VoltTurn partners, as their low speed enables them to bring Liepard in unscathed. Pokemon commonly found on stall teams, such as Bronzor, Mega Audino, and Sliggoo, appreciate Liepard's ability to selectively trap stallbreakers such as Calm Mind Xatu, Jynx, Mismagius, and Zangoose with some prior damage. Choice Band Liepard can lure specific Pokemon and eliminate them with its coverage to clear the way for other wallbreakers and sweepers. For example, Seed Bomb enables it to lure and KO Quagsire, which clears the way for Malamar. Aurorus and Magmortar appreciate Hariyama getting lured and KOed by Play Rough so they can spam their STAB attacks. Finally, Rotom and Pyroar love Mega Audino and Clefairy being smashed by Gunk Shot. Rain Dance and Sunny Day can be used alongside Prankster to set up weather for eight turns in almost any situation, even against priority attackers such as Aqua Jet Samurott, making Liepard the most reliable one-off weather setter in the tier. Encore provides Liepard with opportunities to force switches and lock down foes, allowing it to set up weather against passive Pokemon reliably and disrupt certain offensive Pokemon such as Fake Out Kangaskhan to provide more setup opportunities. Knock Off is a reliable STAB attack that can be used to revenge kill certain Pokemon or weaken defensive Pokemon for weather-abusing teammates to break through later. U-turn allows Liepard to scout the opponent's decisions and send in an appropriate threat immediately after setting weather, conserving momentum and making the most out of the weather turns. Thunder Wave is a possibility to provide further support to teammates, but most weather sweepers outspeed the unboosted metagame when weather is up anyway, so it's not optimal to spend turns paralyzing Pokemon in this context. Damp Rock and Heat Rock provide an extra three turns of weather for the team when Rain Dance or Sunny Day is used, which is useful given how Liepard is almost certain to pull off the respective weather moves due to Prankster. Maximum Speed and Attack investment is used to give Liepard as much offensive presence as possible, helping it weaken defensive threats for teammates more effectively. An Adamant nature can be used to power up Knock Off, but outspeeding Jynx and Mismagius is generally more useful. A set with 136 HP / 60 Def / 60 SpD / 252 Spe EVs can be used to give Liepard more bulk, allowing it to survive certain hits such as bulky Swords Dance Scyther's and Mesprit's U-turns and set up weather more often in a match if required. Alternatively, Liepard's defensive IVs can be reduced to 0 to make it easier to KO, making it more efficient at sacrificing itself and giving teammates more weather turns if necessary. Liepard should usually enter battle when weather is about to run out or a teammate is KOed outside of weather so it can guarantee more weather turns with Prankster. It shouldn't generally be used as a lead, as other weather leads have access to entry hazards, and these should be set up before any weather sweeps should be attempted under most circumstances. Liepard also shouldn't switch into foes directly due to its lack of bulk, and bringing it in during weather turns should be avoided unless a setup sweeper desperately needs to be stopped with Encore. Once the appropriate weather has been set, Liepard should exit battle quickly to ensure that its teammates can take advantage of the weather for as long as possible. Liepard should be preserved for later if weather-setting foes like Abomasnow and Aurorus are present, as it can achieve little while they are free to switch in, and it risks either being KOed or letting a teammate take heavy damage as it switches out. In the late-game, Liepard can also be sacrificed to set up weather for one final sweep, with its low bulk making it very easy to KO, allowing an abuser to come in for free after it is defeated. Weather sweepers are mandatory partners to capitalize on Liepard's support. Swift Swim users such as Kabutops and Ludicolo are the main threats to take advantage of Rain Dance with, while Chlorophyll users such as Victreebel and Exeggutor are the best options to use if Sunny Day is run. Additionally, wallbreakers and generally fast offensive Pokemon such as Samurott, Magmortar, and Pyroar can make good use of the boosts to their STAB attacks in their respective weather conditions. A bulky weather setter should be used alongside Liepard so that weather can be established in a wider range of situations and with less risk against powerful offensive Pokemon. Mesprit can make good use of Rain Dance, Sunny Day, and Stealth Rock to support its team and can use a slow U-turn to get weather sweepers into battle safely and efficiently. Checks to Snow Warning Pokemon, namely Abomasnow and Aurorus, are also important, as they automatically remove Liepard's weather by switching in and must be dealt with before a sweep can be completed. Assault Vest Magmortar can switch into Ice-type moves reliably but must be wary of coverage moves. Nasty Plot allows Liepard to increase its Special Attack and pose a threat to unprepared teams, letting it OHKO many of the offensive Pokemon it outspeeds after a boost. Dark Pulse is a powerful STAB attack that often makes the target flinch, which is useful given Liepard's speed and frailty and lets it occasionally break through bulky Pokemon that could KO it if they got a chance to hit back. Copycat can be used immediately after Dark Pulse KOes a foe to become Dark Pulse, gaining priority due to Prankster and allowing Liepard to bypass slower priority attackers and faster threats once its sweep has begun. It can also be used to copy utility moves such as Spikes and Will-O-Wisp to make Liepard a more unpredictable support threat or to copy coverage moves to revenge kill foes, such as Shadow Ball against Colbur Berry Rotom and Hurricane against Vivillon. Encore provides Liepard with lots of setup opportunities, both from the switches it forces and from its ability to lock down foes. Setting up on other setup sweepers is Liepard's speciality. Substitute gives Liepard more insurance against attacks, letting it 2HKO bulkier targets such as Assault Vest Magmortar if required. Liepard can still bluff Encore effectively if required, but the opponent can punish it if they manage to figure out that it lacks the move. Liepard's lack of U-turn, Thunder Wave, or Knock Off is usually enough to tip the opponent off if it stays in for more than a few turns. While Liepard has priority once it starts to use Copycat Dark Pulse, maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature is still preferred, as it lets Liepard reliably KO threats such as Mismagius with Dark Pulse without any additional setup and gives it more opportunities to use Copycat on its own attack against offense teams in general. It also ensures that Liepard outspeeds all other priority attackers, preventing them from revenge killing it or intercepting Copycat. However, a Modest nature can be used instead for more power if the loss of Speed is unimportant to your team. Black Glasses gives a boost in power to Liepard's Dark Pulse, which is useful given how frail Liepard is. Leftovers is another option if using Substitute that allows Liepard to stay healthy throughout a sweep and ensures that it can use Substitute without much risk. This allows Liepard to attempt sweeps at multiple points in the match more effectively and mitigates residual damage from entry hazards. It also allows Liepard to set up on Will-O-Wisp users that might otherwise try to burn Liepard, assuming a physical set, and mitigates Toxic damage. Nasty Plot Liepard should be saved for the late-game if possible, as it is easily walled by Pokemon that resist Dark and once the opponent knows it is a Nasty Plot sweeper, they do not have to worry about other utility options Liepard could bluff, such as Thunder Wave and Pursuit. Liepard's teammates should be used to wear these foes down if they lack recovery, such as Assault Vest Hariyama, until Liepard is able to break through them, or KO them outright if this is not an option, such as against Mega Audino. Once these threats have been removed, Liepard should switch in on an opportunity to Encore, such as a foe setting up, using Defog, or using a Psychic-type attack, and either lock the foe into one of these moves or use Nasty Plot if it is likely to switch out. If Substitute is being used instead of Encore, it can be used before Nasty Plot so that Liepard can more effectively scout the opponent's responses. However, it shouldn't be used if the opponent has means to bypass the Substitute, such as Swellow's Boomburst or Pyroar's Hyper Voice. Teammates to remove bulky Fighting- and Fairy-type Pokemon are mandatory for this set to not be dead weight. Calm Mind Psychic-types such as Mesprit and Musharna have a good matchup against most Fighting-types and can beat Mega Audino one-on-one with Psyshock. Similarly, teammates that can remove other Dark-type Pokemon, such as Primeape and Scyther, are also appreciated to help propagate Liepard's sweep. Wallbreakers and stallbreakers that can wear down teams in general, such as Magmortar and Mismagius, are also highly useful for making Liepard's sweep easier to accomplish. Entry hazard support is also highly recommended to make up for Liepard's lack of raw power. Mesprit can use Stealth Rock consistently while dealing with Fighting-types and being able to give Liepard a second chance at sweeping with Healing Wish if necessary. Garbodor can switch into both Fighting- and Fairy-type Pokemon and threaten most of them with a STAB Gunk Shot. It can also provide Spikes support to help Liepard secure KOs more easily. Shiftry can lure in defensive responses such as Assault Vest Hariyama and cripple or remove them with Explosion or Extrasensory. An all-out Life Orb attacker set can be used to lure and eliminate certain threats, running Play Rough to hit Fighting- and Dark-type Pokemon, Gunk Shot to hit Mega Audino, and Grass Knot to hit Gastrodon, Quagsire, and Rhydon particularly hard. A sweeping set with Hone Claws and Gunk Shot is very effective at letting Liepard lure and KO Mega Audino, but such a set has much less value than the standard set in most situations due to its lack of support moves and its lack of power and priority compared to the Choice Band and Nasty Plot sets. Trick lets Liepard swap a Choice Band or Choice Scarf onto a wall and could be used well on all-out attacking sets, but Encore is just as good at disrupting opponents on non-Choice sets and can be used more than once in a match, boasting greater reliability. Taunt is an alternative to Encore that can be used to stop non-attacking moves altogether. Aside from stopping entry hazards, however, Liepard can generally get more utility out of Encore, as a foe locked into one specific move is much easier to exploit than an opponent locked into attacking moves in general. Yawn can also be used to force foes to switch or put them to sleep, providing setup opportunities for teammates, and doesn't depend on the opponent using non-attacking moves, but again, Encore is generally more consistent. Finally, if no non-attacking moves are used, Limber gives Liepard a handy immunity to Thunder Wave and other paralysis moves, while Unburden gives Liepard a hefty-if-unnecessary speed boost if it can survive a Knock Off.
Liepard (SM competitive strategy): Liepard is somewhat versatile and unpredictable thanks to its plethora of viable sets such as Choice Band, Nasty Plot, and weather support. As a result of these sets' offensive nature, Liepard fits mostly on offensively based teams that appreciate its good Speed tier and prowess. Liepard has access to Prankster, as well as useful offensive tools such as Pursuit, Sucker Punch, and Knock Off, allowing it to cripple teams. Despite these positives, Liepard has a notable flaw in the fact that its offensive stats are low even when boosted, so it struggles to break past bulky foes such as Mudsdale. Additionally, Liepard has mediocre bulk and is weak to common Fighting- and Fairy-type attacks. Without the proper coverage, it can struggle to retaliate against foes that use these moves. Lastly, Liepard is a prediction-reliant Pokemon, and being Choice-locked into Sucker Punch can be costly because it can give the opponent free turns to set up. Knock Off is Liepard's strongest STAB attack and has the utility of removing the foe's item. Pursuit is used to trap Pokemon such as Haunter and Choice Specs Jellicent. Play Rough gives solid coverage versus Fighting- and Dark-types such as Gurdurr, Poliwrath, and Sableye, which would otherwise wall Liepard. U-turn allows Liepard to pivot out on checks like Silvally-Fairy, which gives its team momentum. Sucker Punch is a powerful priority attack against Pokemon that can outspeed Liepard. Lastly, Copycat allows Liepard to revenge kill faster Pokemon such as Dodrio and Choice Scarf Primeape, but only if used with Prankster. Maximum Attack investment with a Choice Band allows Liepard to be as powerful as possible. Maximum Speed investment with Jolly nature ensures that Liepard outspeeds base 105 Speed Pokemon such as Cryogonal. Black Glasses over Choice Band can work, since Liepard spams Knock Off most of the time. Prankster is to be used to give Copycat priority, but if running another move instead, Limber is preferred. Choice Band turns Liepard into a prediction-reliant Pokemon. Liepard should use Knock Off to remove foes' items early-game. However, be careful when using Dark-type moves against Psychic- and Ghost-types like Musharna and Jellicent because they sometimes carry Colbur Berry to weaken them; in Musharna's case, its potential Z-Crystal reduces Knock Off damage and its Z-Move can OHKO Liepard back. Bringing Liepard in on predicted Psychic-type attacks from Jynx or choice-locked Ghost-type attacks from Oricorio-G and Haunter is ideal for Pursuit trapping. Be wary when locking Liepard into Sucker Punch because setup sweepers like Carracosta can take advantage of it. Liepard should pivot out on its hard counters with U-turn. Dark Pulse is Liepard's strongest special STAB attack and has a chance to make the foe flinch. Encore is perfect for Liepard, since it gives Liepard a chance to set up freely once a foe is locked into a non-threatening move. Copycat allows Liepard to use Dark Pulse as a form of priority due to Prankster and beat faster foes such as Dodrio and Jynx. Black Glasses is used to boost the power of Liepard's Dark Pulse. Alternatively, Leftovers gives Liepard passive recovery at the cost of significant power loss on a Pokemon that's already fairly weak. Liepard should aim to lock foes into setup moves or harmless status moves using Encore. Liepard can then proceed to use Nasty Plot after locking a foe with Encore or against a Pokemon Liepard can threaten out. Copycat should be used after using Dark Pulse once, as it will allow Liepard to gain priority on its Dark Pulses. Due to this set being a mono-attacker, it should be preserved until late-game, when its checks are worn down or eliminated from the battle. Knock Off is Liepard's best STAB attack and is helpful for removing items from Pokemon such as Assault Vest Hitmonchan and Crabominable, which both disrupt rain. Rain Dance summons rain for 8 turns with Damp Rock, while Sunny Day summons sun for 8 turns with Heat Rock. Encore can be used by Liepard to lock its foes into non-threatening moves, then take advantage of them by bringing in weather sweepers and attackers with U-turn. Thunder Wave is another option that can be used to slow down faster foes. Damp Rock and Heat Rock give 8 turns of weather to a team. Prankster gives priority to Sunny Day and Rain Dance, ensuring Liepard can set the weather quickly. Maximum Speed with a Jolly nature ensures that Liepard is faster than every other Prankster user. Maximum Attack investment gives Liepard some offensive presence and power behind a Knock Off. Once Liepard sets the weather, it should exit battle as soon as possible in order to let its team take advantage of as many weather turns as possible. Liepard is less ideal as a lead for weather teams; Liepard should be preserved because it has great utility in setting up weather with priority, so your best bet is to send it in whenever the weather is needed or is about to expire. Liepard isn't bulky at all, so it will find most switch-ins once a teammate is KO'd or against certain passive Pokemon. Liepard's Dark typing allows it to be immune to Prankster moves such as Sableye's Will-O-Wisp, giving Liepard more openings to come in. Liepard should be paired with weather sweepers such as Kabutops and Ludicolo on rain teams or Victreebel and Leafeon on sun teams. Electric-types such as Alolan Raichu can be used on rain teams to take advantage of Thunder's perfect accuracy in the rain. Stealth Rock users, most notably Golem and Regirock, should be used for sun teams because they provide good role compression. Pokemon like Simisear should be paired with Sunny Day Liepard because they take advantage of their Fire-type attacks being boosted by the sun. A Life Orb set can be used over Choice Band if Liepard doesn't want to be Choice-locked, but it appreciates the extra power behind its coverage moves. Trick cripples bulky walls that try to switch in on Liepard such as Regirock and Audino. Taunt similarly enables Liepard to cripple passive Pokemon like Audino. Fairium Z can also be used as a tool to hit Fighting-types harder and lets Liepard switch into weaker Knock Offs easier. A bulkier EV spread for Weather sets can be used to slightly increase Liepard's longevity, but Liepard has inherently mediocre bulk, so it often isn't worth it.
Liepard (SS competitive strategy): The combination of Prankster and Sunny Day lets Liepard act as an excellent mid-game sun setter. U-turn lets it pivot into a teammate that benefits from sun, such as Shiftry and Ivysaur. Knock Off helps Liepard further support its teammates by removing Heavy-Duty Boots from Articuno and Altaria. Encore locks foes such as Silvally-Poison and Uxie into unfavorable moves like Work Up and Stealth Rock, giving Liepard free turns to set up sun and pivot with U-turn. Heat Rock is necessary to provide as many sun turns as possible to Liepard's partners. Liepard is a must-have on sun teams and is appreciated by sun sweepers such as Shiftry, Ivysaur, and Rapidash. Uxie's sun setter set also fits well on sun teams for its capacity to reliably set Stealth Rock and sun for its team. Furthermore, a third sun setter such as Exeggutor provides more possibilities to set up sun. Thanks to its high Speed tier and access to Nasty Plot and a pseudo-priority move in Prankster Copycat, Liepard separates itself from other Nasty Plot sweepers such as Skuntank and Alolan Persian. Copycat is mainly used to call Dark Pulse and prevent faster foes like Froslass, Choice Scarf Rotom, and Alolan Dugtrio from revenge killing a Nasty Plot-boosted Liepard. Encore provides Liepard setup opportunities by locking foes such as Piloswine and Articuno into undesirable moves. Heavy-Duty Boots are preferred on VoltTurn teams to help Liepard avoid entry hazards and potentially pivot. Black Glasses are an alternative that makes up for Liepard's average Special Attack, making it require less chip damage to clean. VoltTurn support from pivots such as Uxie, Articuno, and Rotom helps Liepard come on the field in spite of its lackluster bulk. Special wallbreakers such as Exeggutor, Rotom, and Jynx can soften opposing special walls in order to let Liepard clean late game. Checks to Fighting-types such as Uxie, Qwilfish, and Altaria take on Sawk and Gurdurr, which force Liepard out. Likewise, checks to Fairy-types like Klinklang, Silvally-Poison, and Rapidash are great partners that handle Alcremie and Clefairy. Checks to Dark-types such as Alcremie, Gurdurr, and Sawk are also appreciated, as Silvally-Dark and Skuntank can take on Liepard. Kangaskhan is a threat because of Fake Out outprioritizing Copycat, letting it easily revenge kill a weakened Liepard; therefore, checks like Uxie, Tangela, and Cofagrigus are appreciated. With excellent Speed, STAB Knock Off, and great coverage choices, Liepard makes for a potent all-out attacker. U-turn pivots from switch-ins like Poliwrath, Tangela, and Alolan Persian. Prankster Copycat revenge kills naturally faster Pokemon and Choice Scarf Pokemon locked into certain moves, like Froslass, Alolan Dugtrio, and Choice Scarf Sawk and Rotom. Sucker Punch alongside Life Orb provides more consistent priority. Gunk Shot targets Alcremie and Tangela, while Play Rough hits incoming Fighting-types like Sawk, Throh, and Gurdurr. If Liepard chooses not to run Copycat, then Limber should be chosen to avoid paralysis from Stunfisk. Liepard fits well on VoltTurn teams, being able to use Prankster Copycat to copy slow Volt Switches and U-turns. Pivots like Articuno, Thwackey, and Choice Scarf Rotom can work with it to wear down the opposition. Liepard's Knock Off helps cripple entry hazard removers like Articuno and Cryogonal, allowing Stealth Rock setters like Palossand and Rhydon to keep up hazards more consistently. While some of Liepard's checks, like Gurdurr and Tangela, hate losing their items to Knock Off and getting pivoted on by U-turn, Liepard can still struggle to break through them by itself. Special attackers, like Jynx and mixed Silvally-Poison, can ease its need for prediction and give it switch-ins to fall back on. Spikes setters like Qwilfish and Froslass can make Liepard increasingly difficult to switch into.
Marshadow (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to its unresisted STAB combination, strong attacks, and good Speed, Marshadow is one of the best wallbreakers and sweepers in Ubers. It can pressure common defensive Pokemon such as Eternatus and Yveltal regardless of its set. Even checks to Marshadow, such as Ho-Oh and Zygarde, have to be extremely wary of Marshadow's coverage options. Additionally, Technician-boosted Shadow Sneak easily dispatches Calyrex-S and does good damage to many Speed-boosting threats such Necrozma-DM, while Spectral Thief can halt other setup sweepers such as Coil Zygarde, Calm Mind Kyogre, and Cosmic Power Eternatus. These moves allow Marshadow to be an effective revenge killer; only Choice Scarf Calyrex-S can compare to Marshadow's utility in this regard. Marshadow's major flaw is that it is frail and has to rely on pivots and smart double switches to come into battle. When equipped with a Life Orb or Spell Tag, Marshadow is great at cleaning up weakened teams. Spectral Thief is used over Poltergeist for its consistent power, accuracy, and utility against set-up sweepers such as Calm Mind Kyogre, while Low Kick is chosen over Close Combat as the majority of the Ubers tier is very heavy. Shadow Sneak makes Marshadow a useful revenge killer and prevents Calyrex-S from threatening it. The last moveslot is customizable based on team need. Ice Punch is a strong option for hitting Zygarde, which can otherwise wall Marshadow or use it as a setup opportunity, as well as easing prediction against Yveltal and Eternatus. Notably, Life Orb Jolly sets have a chance to 2HKO Eternatus with Ice Punch. Rock Tomb OHKOes Ho-Oh and heavily damages Yveltal; the Speed drop also helps Adamant Marshadow outspeed checks like Eternatus. Bulk Up is Marshadow's only good boosting move, and it works best in tandem with Spell Tag. Marshadow's longevity is significantly improved without Life Orb recoil, letting it survive attacks from Eternatus, Necrozma-DM, and Yveltal and potentially power through them. Life Orb is usually preferred on sets with four attacks, but Spell Tag is still a valid option for longevity. Note that Ho-Oh needs to be chipped before Spell Tag Marshadow can OHKO it. Jolly nature can be used especially for outspeeding Eternatus, but the power drop is definitely notable. Adamant works best when paired with paralysis support. This set requires strong wallbreakers as teammates. Kyogre can notably put pressure on Eternatus, Hone Claws Yveltal can lure in Eternatus and Buzzwole, and Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM has great synergy, as it can take out Ho-Oh and Yveltal with Stone Edge and set up on Xerneas and Eternatus. Ferrothorn's Spikes can help Marshadow pressure its checks, such as giving Jolly Marshadow a greater chance to 2HKO Eternatus. Necrozma-DM is a highly recommended teammate to switch into Eternatus and Xerneas and set up Stealth Rock, helping Marshadow sweep much more easily. Eternatus and Zygarde provide synergy by switching into Ho-Oh and statusing the opposing team. Eternatus also forces out Buzzwole. Xerneas, Buzzwole, and Zarude can switch into Zygarde-C and force it out. Blissey can switch Marshadow in with Teleport, heal Life Orb recoil with Wish, and provide cleric support. Ho-Oh easily switches in on Xerneas and Buzzwole. Additionally, both Thunder Wave Kyogre and Ho-Oh can lure Eternatus and paralyze it, helping Adamant Marshadow take it out. Choice Band's power allows Marshadow to be more flexible in the attacks it runs. For example, with Choice Band, Marshadow can run Spectral Thief with a Jolly nature and comfortably 2HKO the vast majority of Eternatus sets, not needing Poltergeist or Adamant to 2HKO. Shadow Sneak is a useful priority move to revenge kill threats, especially when boosted by Choice Band. In the last slot, Ice Punch or Rock Tomb is used to heavily damage checks such as Zygarde and Ho-Oh. Poltergeist is a useful in-between option, as it's Marshadow's strongest Ghost-type attack, and it hits both the aforementioned foes for good damage. However, Poltergeist has notable flaws in its accuracy and vulnerability to foes with consumed items. While an Adamant nature is possible, Jolly is greatly preferred for letting Marshadow outspeed and 2HKO Eternatus, a very common switch-in. Despite Choice Band's power, be careful when locking into a move, since Zygarde-C, Xerneas, Landorus-T, Necrozma-DM, Buzzwole, and Zarude can often set up for free against certain moves. This set works well on teams that want a revenge killer that isn't Calyrex-S. Certain setup sweepers appreciate this set's focus on wallbreaking power. Zygarde-C and Kyogre enjoy Marshadow heavily pressuring Eternatus, Groudon appreciates it continuously bashing Zygarde-C with Ice Punch, and offensive Necrozma-DM loves it taking out Ho-Oh with Rock Tomb. Other setup sweepers that enjoy Marshadow removing Eternatus are Zarude and Buzzwole. Checks to Pokemon such as Groudon, Zygarde-C, and Zekrom are much appreciated teammates, such as Xerneas and Landorus-T, as those foes can all take a hit from Marshadow if need be. Pivots such as U-turn Yveltal and Teleport Blissey help Marshadow come into the game much more easily and check Calyrex-S, which can force Marshadow out if it is locked into a move besides Shadow Sneak. They appreciate Marshadow's ability to force out setup sweepers like Cosmic Power Eternatus and SubCM Kyogre, and U-turn Yveltal and Marshadow together can keep SubSeed Calyrex-S in check. Blissey is also good for cleric support, as are Xerneas and Clefable. If Marshadow runs Poltergeist, make sure none of its teammates have Knock Off on their sets. Iron Head or Acrobatics gives Marshadow a lure option against Xerneas or Buzzwole. Focus Punch can be used on Adamant Choice Band Marshadow sets, as it will OHKO fast utility Yveltal switch-ins. Close Combat gives more damage on foes such as Magearna, but Low Kick is almost always better, as Ubers is filled with heavy Pokemon, and it gets boosted by Technician when it isn't full power. Swagger is usable to both confuse the opponent and let Marshadow steal the boost with Spectral Thief, and works well with paralysis support, but it is very luck-reliant. Focus Sash is extremely popular, so it should be mentioned; however, while it may seem tempting to use, Marshadow desperately needs the power from Choice Band, Life Orb, or Spell Tag. Not to mention, Focus Sash is a very unreliable item, as it is invalidated by any passive damage, especially from entry hazards.
Oricorio (SV competitive strategy): Oricorio-F serves as one of the deadliest setup sweepers in the tier, utilizing its combination of excellent typing, decent offensive stats, reliable recovery, and one of the best setup moves in the game in Quiver Dance. Oricorio-F can find opportunites to set up through its ability to pressure common bulky Grass-, Steel-, and Ice-types like Shaymin, Orthworm, and Articuno; furthermore, it can also set up in the face of specially offensive threats like Charizard and Shaymin, especially with bulk investment. Revelation Dance makes Oricorio-F especially flexible by serving as an excellent move both before and after Terastalization which it can use both offensively and defensively. Oricorio-F often struggles against common special walls like Regirock and Snorlax. Furthermore, priority from the likes of Lycanroc often pressure Oricorio-F, though Terastallization can help it choose its checks more reliably. While it faces fierce competition from Charizard as a more immediately threatening Fire / Flying type as well as Oricorio-P as a Quiver Dance sweeper able to run Grassy Seed, Oricorio-F makes its name in the tier through combining the best of both its typing and movepool to devastate teams once set up. With full offensive investment, Oricorio-F aims to immediately set up and sweep the opposing team once it hits the field. Hurricane's increased power is required over the higher reliablility of Air Slash due to Oricorio-F's middling Special Attack, and it hits foes like Charizard and Clawitzer extremely hard. Revelation Dance serves as excellent secondary coverage to Oricorio-F's Hurricane with or without Terastallization. Oricorio-F's different Terastallization options help aid its setup opportunities and improve its coverage. Tera Ground allows for easier setup versus Electric-types like Jolteon, Choice-locked Rotom formes, and Vikavolt. It also blesses Oricorio-F with a resistance to Lycanroc's Accelrock and an immunity to Electric-type moves like Lanturn's Electric-type STAB moves and Regirock's Thunder Wave. Tera Grass provides Oricorio-F with similar boons against foes like the aforementioned Lanturn as well as Clawitzer. Tera Fighting flips Oricorio-F's weakness to Rock-type attacks from foes like Regirock, gives it a strong coverage move against Snorlax, and provides a useful resistance to Lycanroc's Accelerock. Oricorio-F thrives on balanced and offensive structures that need a wincon once opposing teams are battered and bruised, often taking advantage of the opportunities gained from pivot moves used by Rotom-C, Lanturn, and Passimian. Oricorio-F struggles immensely with special walls like Regirock and Snorlax, so physical wallbreakers like Passimian, Glastrier, and Hisuian Sneasel are greatly appreciated as partners. Special wallbreakers like Clawitzer, Rotom-C, and Shaymin work well alongside Oricorio-F in the effort to put additional pressure on special walls as well. Knock Off support from the likes of Passimian, Sneasel, and Sandslash is also appreciated to weaken the aforementioned walls, Lanturn, and Snorlax. Entry hazard support from offensive teammates like Sandslash, Orthworm, and Mesprit is invaluable to help break down the walls like Snorlax and Regirock that can often get in the way of Oricorio-F's sweep. In return, Oricorio-F benefits its teammates by serving as a devastating wincon while being able to pressure certain physical walls like Dipplin and Orthworm prior to going for a sweep. With full health investment and reliable recovery, Oricorio-F aims to set up multiple Quiver Dances over the course of the game on foes like Charizard and eventually bulldoze through the opposing team, even beating mons that ordinarily check it like Lanturn. Taunt allows Oricorio-F to shut down status moves like Thunder Wave and Recover; in addition, it prevents phazing and recovery from the likes of Articuno, Cryogonal, and Weezing, as well as Rest from the likes of Lanturn. Air Slash maximizes Oricorio-F’s consistency and has good neutral coverage against the widest portion of the metagame. Alternatively, Revelation Dance is a higher power move that synergizes with Terastallization, but it doesn’t have the same wider-reaching neutral effectiveness Air Slash has and can struggle against certain threats depending on Oricorio-F’s Tera type. Tera Fairy serves as a generally effective defensive Tera type that maximizes the number of foes Oricorio-F can set up against, like Passimian and Rotom, while providing an immunity to Dragon Tail. Tera Grass allows Oriorio-F to flip its matchup versus Water-types like Lanturn and Clawitzer, while Tera Dark allows Oricorio-F to work around Prankster users like Sableye and Whimsicott and continue setting up against them. Oricorio-F excels on bulky offense with teammates like Dipplin and Lanturn that are able to outlast foes and appreciate a win condition that can use its bulk to set up and sweep. Entry hazard support from the likes of Regirock and Orthworm breaks down checks like Regirock and Snorlax, as does Knock Off from teammates like Sneasel and Passimian. Sandslash and Mesprit excel at bringing both Knock Off and hazard support; Spikes stacking in general is an effective way to break down Oricorio-F’s checks. Lanturn can deter Oricorio-F from setting up and punish it with with Discharge, so Grass-types capable of pressuring it repeatedly like Rotom-C, Virizion, and Shaymin are greatly appreciated. Other walls like Snorlax and Regirock also cause issues for this set, so Fighting-type teammates that can pressure them like Passimian, Hisuian Sneasel, and Virizion are helpful. Oricorio-F can opt for Tera Water on both Quiver Dance sets to have a generally better defensive typing than Tera Grass offers, but it risks being completely walled by opposing Lanturn as well as taking severe damage from the likes of Jolteon, Rotom-C, and Thwackey. Due to access to a few rare and excellent utility moves in Defog and U-turn, Oricorio-F can be used as a bulky utility Defog user and pivot. However, this role is often done better by other entry hazard removers like Sandslash and Lurantis, especially as Oricorio-F is extremely reliant on its Heavy-Duty Boots to maintain its overall health, whereas Sandslash resists Stealth Rock and Lurantis often runs recovery.
Talonflame (XY competitive strategy): Despite having largely mediocre stats and a vulnerable typing, Talonflame remains a viable option thanks to its ability Gale Wings, which gives its Flying-type moves, such as Brave Bird, Roost and Acrobatics, priority. Talonflame also has an above-average Speed stat to use its other moves quickly, which include Swords Dance, Will-O-Wisp, and Taunt to stop entry hazards as well as status moves and setup. It does, however, struggle with Stealth Rock, which takes away 50% of its health every time it comes in. With a lack of offensive coverage and a subpar Attack stat, Talonflame can easily be dealt with by common Pokemon like Heatran, Zapdos, Rotom-W, Tyranitar, and Thundurus. Brave Bird's high Base Power, combined with the priority provided by Gale Wings and the Choice Band-boosted Attack, allows Talonflame to deliver powerful blows against Fighting- and Grass-type Pokemon like Mega Lopunny, Keldeo, and Serperior. Flare Blitz is the secondary STAB move, offering coverage against Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Skarmory. U-turn provides momentum, letting Talonflame scout switches and bring in teammates safely. It's especially valuable against predicted switches to common counters like Rotom-W and Tyranitar, which receive chip damage and therefore get pressured into Brave Bird's KO range. Will-O-Wisp cripples physical attackers that attempt to switch in like Garchomp and Landorus-T. Alternatively, Steel Wing is a niche coverage option for Fairy-types, especially Mega Diancie, but can be of great value, since it might surprise Mega Diancie and remove it from the game, which is very useful for the hyper offensive teams this Talonflame is likely to be on. The EV spread combined with the Adamant nature and the Choice Band maximizes Talonflame's offensive potential. The maximum investment in Speed EVs allows it to outspeed base 110 Speed Pokemon, like Mega Metagross, Latios, and Mega Latios, all of which can be hit super effectively by Talonflame. Gale Wings allows Talonflame to beat foes that would else pose a threat like Hidden Power Rock Serperior and Mega Alakazam. Talonflame is best used as a revenge killer or wallbreaker. Due to its crippling weakness to Stealth Rock, you should be mindful to not let the opponent's team set it up. Utilize U-turn to create momentum and chip down bulky Water-types like Rotom-W and Slowbro, but be careful of foes that punish contact moves like Garchomp, Rocky Helmet Landorus-T, and Ferrothorn. Steel Wing and Will-O-Wisp should be used with caution, since both moves are situational and have a rather high chance to miss. Since this Talonflame does not use recovery moves, it is important to not let it take too much unnecessary damage and be mindful with its HP, especially since its STAB moves both have recoil, making their use limited. This Talonflame is best used on offensive teams. Entry hazard removal from Excadrill and Latias is very beneficial due to Talonflame's crippling weakness to Stealth Rock. Pokemon that deny Stealth Rock being set up in the first place are also greatly appreciated; Taunt users like Serperior, Aerodactyl, and Mew and Magic Bounce Diancie, as well as Imprison Landorus-T, make good partners for Talonflame. Wallbreakers like Mega Lopunny, Weavile, and Bisharp can pressure Talonflame's checks, especially bulky Water- or Electric-types like Rotom-W, Slowbro, and Zapdos. Talonflame's ability to create holes in the opponent's team, by beating or weakening key defensive checks like Ferrothorn, Serperior, and Mega Scizor, creates opportunities for sweepers like Mega Gyarados and Manaphy. Acrobatics is strong and does not wear Talonflame down with recoil like Brave Bird does. This lack of recoil, Roost, and Will-O-Wisp let Talonflame use Swords Dance to both sweep teams and break through defensive cores. Will-O-Wisp plus extra bulk makes it easier for Talonflame to set up Swords Dance compared to the offensive Swords Dance set. Roost and Will-O-Wisp also provide defensive utility. 248 HP EVs minimize the damage Talonflame takes from Stealth Rock. 8 Defense EVs allow Talonflame to always live a Thunder Punch from Mega Metagross at full HP. Alternatively, you can invest 60 Attack EVs into Speed, allowing Talonflame to outspeed Pokemon up to Jolly Excadrill. Gale Wings gives Acrobatics and Roost priority. Talonflame runs no item to double the damage from Acrobatics, and this also reduces damage from Knock Off from the likes of Bisharp and Weavile. Talonflame's typing leaves it vulnerable to Stealth Rock, so don't send it into Stealth Rock if possible. If you must switch it in anyway, send it in on foes that can't threaten it like Mega Scizor, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn and immediately use Roost. Use Will-O-Wisp to cripple physical attackers like Tyranitar, Weavile, Mega Metagross, and Landorus-T, wear down checks and counters like Rotom-W, Zapdos, and Mega Tyranitar, and wear down more defensive threats like Skarmory and Ferrothorn so that they're forced to recover up more often. Once checks and counters are weakened or eliminated, use Swords Dance and priority Acrobatics to sweep or clean up teams. Talonflame must have a teammate that can remove Stealth Rock for it. Starmie can use Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards, switch into foes like Heatran, and spread Toxic to Water-types that can threaten Talonflame like Rotom-W and Slowbro. Starmie appreciates Talonflame's ability to spread Will-O-Wisp on Pursuit users like Tyranitar and handle Grass-types like Serperior and Amoonguss. Excadrill also has access to Rapid Spin, is able to take Electric-type attacks for Talonflame, and appreciates Talonflame resisting attacks from Fire-types like Mega Charizard Y and Volcarona as well as Grass-types like Tangrowth and Serperior. Latios and Latias can both provide Defog support while also taking on Water- and Electric-types like Rotom-W, Slowbro, Thundurus, and Zapdos. Latios and Latias also appreciate Talonflame burning common Dark-types like Bisharp and Tyranitar. Grass-types like Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Serperior are all good partners, as they can deal with Water-types that threaten Talonflame. Mega Diancie is able to offensively check Electric-types like Zapdos and Thundurus and prevent entry hazards thanks to Magic Bounce. It also appreciates Talonflame's ability to take on Grass-types like Serperior and Amoonguss as well as Steel-types like Skarmory and Ferrothorn. Clefable can act as a status absorber, provide Knock Off and Thunder Wave support to cripple the likes of Heatran, and help with Electric-types like Rotom-W. Brave Bird is Talonflame's strongest Flying-type STAB move. Will-O-Wisp is used to cripple Tyranitar, Mega Metagross, Bisharp, Landorus-T, and other physical attackers. Its residual damage is also useful against foes like Thundurus, Rotom-W, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn. Roost is used to keep Talonflame healthy so it can consistently come onto the field. Swords Dance helps it break through defensive teams as well as sweep. Taunt is a viable option over Swords Dance, as it can stop recovery from the likes of Chansey, entry hazards from Pokemon like Skarmory and Ferrothorn, and setup from foes like Clefable. Gale Wings gives Talonflame priority on Brave Bird, which allows it to revenge kill and sweep teams late-game, as well as on Roost, allowing it to stall out faster foes or avoid super effective damage from Electric-type moves like Volt Switch. 248 HP EVs allow Talonflame to take the least amount of damage from Stealth Rock, 8 Defense EVs allow it to always survive a Thunder Punch from Mega Metagross, and 252 Special Defense EVs with a Careful nature allow it to take on special hits from the likes of Mega Charizard Y, Volcarona, Serperior, and Clefable a lot more easily. Talonflame can also invest 60 Special Defense EVs into Speed, allowing it to outspeed Jolly Excadrill. Additionally, a more physically bulky spread can be run to better take on physical attackers such as Mega Scizor and Excadrill that lack Rock Slide. Talonflame should avoid coming onto the battlefield if Stealth Rock is up. If it must switch into Stealth Rock, make sure it comes in on Pokemon that cannot deal too much damage to it like Leftovers Clefable, Ferrothorn, Skarmory, Volcarona, and Mega Charizard Y, which all can't KO Talonflame from half HP. Make sure to use Roost right after. Use Will-O-Wisp as Pokemon that check Talonflame like Thundurus, Tyranitar, Rotom-W, and Zapdos switch in to slowly whittle them down. Take advantage of this set's bulkier spread and use Swords Dance on Pokemon that cannot outdamage Roost and Leftovers, like Mega Charizard Y, Volcarona, Clefable, Amoonguss, and Ferrothorn. Make sure Talonflame's checks are eliminated or in range of Brave Bird before you use Swords Dance. Pokemon with Rapid Spin or Defog are good partners for Talonflame given its weakness to Stealth Rock. Excadrill can use Rapid Spin and soak up Electric-type moves that threaten Talonflame. Latios and Latias can help Talonflame with its common weaknesses in Electric and Water while also removing Stealth Rock with Defog. Latios and Latias also appreciate Talonflame's ability to burn problematic Dark-types like Tyranitar and Bisharp. Starmie can help deal with the likes of Heatran, spread Toxic on Water-types like Slowbro and Rotom-W, and remove entry hazards with Rapid Spin. Starmie also appreciates Talonflame burning common Dark-types. Grass-types like Ferrothorn, Tangrowth, Amoonguss, and Serperior can help deal with Water-types like Slowbro and Quagsire, and Rock-types like Mega Diancie and Choice Scarf Tyranitar resist Electric-type hits from the likes of Magnezone and Rotom-W that threaten Talonflame. Clefable can act as a status absorber, take on Electric-types like Rotom-W, and provide Knock Off and Thunder Wave support to cripple the likes of Heatran. Brave Bird is Talonflame's strongest Flying-type STAB move. Swords Dance allows Talonflame to break through defensive cores and clean up or sweep teams late-game. Roost is used to keep Talonflame healthy. Flare Blitz gives coverage against Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Magnezone, Excadrill, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn. Maximum Speed EVs allow Talonflame to outspeed base 110s, which include Latios, Latias, Mega Metagross, Mega Diancie, and Gengar. Gale Wings lets Talonflame revenge kill or clean up teams with Brave Bird as well as avoid super effective damage from Electric-type attacks via priority Roost. Be sure to remove Stealth Rock before sending in Talonflame. Weaken checks like Heatran, Thundurus, Rotom-W, and Tyranitar before setting up Swords Dance. Use Swords Dance on foes that cannot threaten Talonflame like Ferrothorn, Serperior, Clefable, and Choice item users locked into a move that cannot threaten it, like Magnezone locked into Flash Cannon or Hidden Power Fire. Take advantage of Gale Wings to revenge kill as well as strike before faster foes like Mega Lopunny, Tornadus-T, Serperior, and Weavile. This set is best used on a more offensive team archetype like hyper offense. Talonflame requires teammates that can remove entry hazards; Excadrill can use Rapid Spin as well as absorb Electric-type attacks for Talonflame. Starmie also has access to Rapid Spin, and it checks Talonflame checks like Heatran and Hippowdon. Latios can provide Defog support while also handling Water- and Electric-type attacks. Latias shares Latios's advantages and can also provide Healing Wish support for Talonflame. Mega Pinsir can weaken Talonflame's checks and counters, as they share similar switch-ins, like Rotom-W, Thundurus, Zapdos, and Mega Diancie. Manaphy can take on Talonflame checks like Heatran, Hippowdon, and Tyranitar while also appreciating Talonflame's ability to take on Grass-types like Ferrothorn.
Talonflame (SM competitive strategy): Talonflame is able to carve a small niche in the UU metagame as a threatening sweeper and revenge killer for offensive teams thanks to its great speed, excellent offensive typing, ability Gale Wings, and access to the boosting move Swords Dance. Its Fire / Flying typing allows it to hit most of the metagame for neutral damage and grants it key resistances to Fire-, Fighting-, and Fairy-type attacks as well as an immunity to the common Ground-type. Its ability Gale Wings allows Talonflame to hit faster threats with its Flying-type STAB move before being hit in return, letting it deal great damage to common Choice Scarf users such as Krookodile and Hydreigon with Brave Bird or a Supersonic Skystrike if Gale Wings hasn't been broken. Despite these attributes, however, losing 50% of its health to Stealth Rock damage means that Talonflame requires a lot of support and constant entry hazard removal in order to function as a reliable sweeper or revenge killer, since any form of damage automatically stops it from making use of its ability. Its defenses also leave much to be desired, which makes it susceptible to Pursuit trappers, priority users, and faster Pokemon that resist its Flying-type moves such as Mega Aerodactyl, Zeraora, and Mega Manectric. Talonflame is also weak to Water-, Electric-, and Rock-type moves, meaning that it will often be walled or forced out by common threats such as Rotom-H and Mega Slowbro. Furthermore, most Rock-type Pokemon in the tier resist both of its attacks and can threaten Talonflame with a 4x effective STAB move or cripple it with status, with examples being Mega Aerodactyl and Stealth Rock setters such as Rhyperior and Diancie. Lastly, Pokemon such as Infernape, Rotom-H, and Moltres give Talonflame competition as Fire-types due to their better secondary typing, more reliable abilities, ability to fit on more varied playstyles, or increased utility. Brave Bird allows Talonflame to threaten the majority of the tier for neutral damage. A +2 Supersonic Skystrike allows it to heavily damage defensive Pokemon such as Gligar and Hippowdon and Water-types such as Suicune, Alomomola, and Primarina as well as OHKO all the Dragon-types in the tier. Flare Blitz enables Talonflame to break through the Steel-types that resist its Flying-type STAB move such as Mega Steelix, Doublade, and Empoleon, notably being able to 2HKO all of them after one Swords Dance. Flame Charge is another option that allows Talonflame to be a faster late-game sweeper, most notably outspeeding every common Choice Scarf user after one boost in its Speed stat, which is beneficial if Gale Wings has been broken. Its damage output is considerably lower than Flare Blitz's, though, which means it requires multiple Swords Dance boosts in order to do a good job sweeping. For example, Flame Charge Talonflame requires one Swords Dance boost in order to OHKO bulky Scizor and it requires two to even have a chance at 2HKOing the aforementioned Mega Steelix and Empoleon. Taunt allows Talonflame to set up in front of common passive Stealth Rock setters and Defog users such as Hippowdon and Gligar as well as clerics such as Florges and Sylveon. Alternatively, Roost lets Talonflame heal itself, which can also allow it to restore its health back to full and make use of another +1 priority Flying-type move. Flyinium Z allows Talonflame to use a 190-Base Power Supersonic Skystrike. With the combination of Supersonic Skystrike, one Swords Dance boost, and Stealth Rock damage, Talonflame is able to OHKO threats such as Suicune and Mega Aerodactyl and has a chance to do the same to Swampert, Rotom-H, and Zeraora after they've taken chip damage. Gale Wings grants Talonflame +1 to priority Flying-type moves when it is at full health, which allows it to revenge kill and sweep more reliably if it hasn't taken any prior damage. Due to its great speed, offensive typing, and ability to wallbreak and revenge kill, Talonflame can be used at any stage of the battle. It functions best as a late-game sweeper, though, since its poor Attack stat sometimes stops it from reliably breaking through sturdier Pokemon such as Mega Slowbro and Alomomola without prior damage. Talonflame is able to force switches and wall passive threats such as Hippowdon, Gligar, and Fairy-types such as Sylveon and Florges when running Taunt; it must utilize these instances to set up with Swords Dance in order to break through bulkier Pokemon and sweep or, if running Flame Charge, to boost its Speed stat with the same goal. Preserving Talonflame's Gale Wings can be crucial during a battle, so good entry hazard control is necessary in order to use Talonflame to its full potential and preserve a reliable way of outspeeding faster threats. Find different moments in which Talonflame can safely come in and set up for a sweep or heavily damage opposing Pokemon. Bring it safely into the field by using slow pivots or after another Pokemon has fainted, since Talonflame's low bulk and weakness to Stealth Rock can heavily threaten its longevity. If Talonflame is running Roost, it can afford to come in on weaker attacks and even on entry hazards, as long as it's able to recover its health afterwards or doesn't require Gale Wings in order to sweep. If using Flame Charge, making use of the attack against passive threats, even if only for the Speed boost, which can be a defining moment in a battle, since Talonflame only requires using the move once in order to outspeed all common Choice Scarf users and faster Pokemon, without having to rely on Gale Wings any longer. Talonflame's wallbreaking capabilities, ability to wear down opposing teams, and ability to sweep late-game mean that it fits well on offensive builds, particularly hyper offense. Spikes support from the likes of Froslass and Klefki is appreciated for chipping down opposing teams and putting them in range of one of Talonflame's attacks. Klefki can also support Talonflame by using Thunder Wave against faster threats such as Crobat and Mega Aerodactyl, allowing Talonflame to be the fastest Pokemon on the field. A suicide lead such as Krookodile is particularly helpful, since it's able to set up Stealth Rock and stop the opposing team from doing the same with Taunt. Nihilego and Cobalion are other notable Stealth Rock setters that support Talonflame due to their great offensive presence and movepool that allow them to threaten a plethora of Defoggers such as Empoleon and Rotom-H. Due to Talonflame's weakness to Stealth Rock damage, hazard control is necessary, so spinners such as Starmie, Mega Blastoise, and Tsareena are preferable, since they're able to get rid of hazards on your side while keeping those on the opponent's side and still have great offensive presence against common Stealth Rock setters such as Hippowdon, Mega Steelix, and Mega Aggron. Spinblockers such as Gengar, Mimikyu, and Doublade and Defiant Pokemon such as Bisharp stop or punish the use of Rapid Spin or Defog from opposing teams, supporting Talonflame's goal of wearing down teams in order to sweep. Setup sweepers like Terrakion, Mega Altaria, and Lucario appreciate physically defensive walls such as Swampert, Gligar, and Doublade weakened. Special wallbreakers such as Primarina, Latias, and Hydreigon support Talonflame by threatening bulky Water-types such as Slowbro and Quagsire and in return appreciate Talonflame's ability to threaten Steel-types. Choice Scarf Latias and Hydreigon are naturally decent partners, since they're able to beat Electric-type Pokemon that trouble Talonflame such as Rotom-H. They're also able to beat faster threats that Talonflame can't outspeed naturally, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Zeraora, and Mega Manectric. Scizor, Bisharp, and Mega Sharpedo fit well in hyper offense builds alongside Talonflame, since they can function as cleaners that appreciate Talonflame's ability to wear down opposing teams. An Adamant nature provides Talonflame with more immediate offensive power but allows other fast threats such as offensive Starmie to outspeed it. This option notably secures an OHKO on Rotom-H with Supersonic Skystrike after Stealth Rock damage and a Swords Dance boost.
Talonflame (SS competitive strategy): Talonflame's role in NU is a fast pivot that can revenge kill offensive threats like Inteleon, Starmie, and Salazzle. Additionally, using Flame Body, it can fish for a burn by switching into resisted physical attackers from foes such as Copperajah, Tauros, and Silvally-Ground. Sadly, since Water-types like Mantine and Vaporeon are common, it can be tough for Talonflame to do its job. It's also not a great Fighting-type check, since Toxicroak can nearly OHKO it on the switch with Gunk Shot, whereas Passimian can remove its Heavy-Duty Boots with Knock Off or KO it with Rock Slide. Additionally, it's not a strong attacker and as a result can struggle to revenge kill at times. The choice between STAB attacks and status moves isn't too important, but you should almost always pair Brave Bird with Will-O-Wisp and Flare Blitz with Toxic; this ensures Talonflame retains a good matchup into Steel-types like Copperajah and Escavalier. U-turn is great because Talonflame's high Speed lets it force out several common foes like Tsareena and Decidueye, giving it many turns to pivot and gain momentum. However, Defog can be considered if you need Talonflame to have it. Taunt is also an option to help against bulky setup sweepers like Scrafty, Snorlax, and Sylveon. Flame Body lets Talonflame fish for burns by switching into moves like Passimian's U-turn and Copperajah's Heavy Slam. The EV spread with a Jolly nature maximizes Talonflame's bulk while being able to outspeed Inteleon and Salazzle. Teammates like Copperajah and Guzzlord, which Fighting-types feast on, can retreat into Talonflame and serve as Flame Body lures. Water-types that run amuck like Vaporeon, Gastrodon, and Mantine all switch into Talonflame with little-to-no issue, save for Toxic. Therefore, teammates like Vileplume, Guzzlord, and Rotom-C are appreciated to take pressure off of Talonflame. These Pokemon also check Electric-types like Heliolisk and Choice Scarf Rotom-C. Similarly, Rock-types like Aerodactyl and Diancie either outspeed Talonflame or don't mind coming in on any of its moves. Mudsdale can eat up any hit they throw at them and can also switch in on Choice Scarf users like Tyrantrum and Passimian, since Head Smash and Rock Slide, respectively, take out Talonflame with ease. Swords Dance can work on a viable setup set for sweeping. However, this requires a turn of setup, and given Talonflame's less-than-decent Attack stat, it is still not hitting as hard as it would like. Overheat makes Talonflame a bit better into Vileplume and still hits Steel-types hard but is otherwise outclassed by Brave Bird.
Terrakion (BW competitive strategy): This analysis was written around the time that BW was considered the main generation. The following content may no longer be accurate about this Pokemon's place in the metagame and the BW OU metagame in general. Due to the popularity of Terrakion's Choice sets, many of its checks and counters often rely on it being locked into one move. With this set, Terrakion is able defeat these Pokemon by using either its STAB attacks or coverage moves. Close Combat and Stone Edge function as Terrakion's bread-and-butter STAB moves, getting nearly unresisted coverage in the OU tier. Hidden Power Ice is a key coverage move in Terrakion's arsenal, 2HKOing its two primary counters, Landorus-T and Gliscor, as well as OHKOing a weakened Dragonite or Salamence without risking a miss with Stone Edge. Earthquake is primarily used to hit Toxicroak, Tentacruel, and Jirachi for super effective damage. However, Protect allows Terrakion to scout against revenge killers, most notably Scizor and Breloom. X-Scissor is Terrakion's most powerful attack against Psychic-types such as Latias, Latios, and Celebi. However, a super effective X-Scissor is only slightly more powerful than a STAB Stone Edge, and oftentimes, the Pokemon that Terrakion would want to hit with X-Scissor are faster and carry a super effective attack, reducing X-Scissor's overall utility. Despite its low Base Power, Quick Attack is an option to defeat extremely weakened Pokemon that are either faster or carry a super effective priority move. Substitute is an option over either Earthquake or Protect, as it allows Terrakion to capitalize on the switches it forces and defeat faster Pokemon by using either its STAB attacks or Hidden Power Ice. However, Substitute in tandem with Life Orb recoil will wear down Terrakion relatively quickly, making it a mediocre option in comparison to Protect. Terrakion can also utilize an Expert Belt to bluff a choice item and function as an even better lure for Landorus-T and Gliscor; However, the extra power boost that Life Orb provides is generally more useful. Because this set lacks the power of Terrakion's Choice Band set, entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Skarmory and Forretress is recommended. Due to Terrakion's ability to lure and defeat Gliscor and Landorus-T, Dragon Dance Dragonite, Dragon Dance Salamence, and Swords Dance Lucario are exceptional partners. Due to Terrakion's weakness to common priority, such as Bullet Punch and Mach Punch from Scizor and Breloom, respectively, Pokemon that can defeat these priority users, such as Thundurus-T, Zapdos, and Volcarona are also excellent partners. Keldeo is another excellent partner, as Terrakion is able to defeat nearly every one of Keldeo's counters, allowing the pony to sweep later in the game. beat a common spinner— Forretress—as well as Espeon and Xatu which as Gengar, Jellicent, or Sableye, is helpful because Terrakion will have Besides Gliscor, Slowbro, Landorus-T, and a few obscure counters that obscure threats, such as Golurk, Nidoqueen, and Claydol. As laughable as sets. Mew, Reuniclus and Jellicent also fall into the similar category. examples being Golurk, Nidoqueen, Claydol, and Tangrowth. If you're
Terrakion (XY competitive strategy): Terrakion is one of OU's most fearsome and underrated wallbreakers, and at a quick glance, it isn't difficult to see why. With a respectable Attack stat and extremely high-powered STAB attacks that have phenomenal coverage, Terrakion is an absolute nightmare to switch into. Furthermore, its ability, Justified, makes opponents fear using Dark-type moves multiple times, as Terrakion is able to get a free Attack boost off of these resisted attacks. As a result, Terrakion is a decent check to Weavile, Tyranitar, and Bisharp for offensive teams. Its Speed tier is just enough to revenge kill base 100s, especially the likes of Manaphy, Charizard, Jirachi, and Mega Gardevoir. However, while Terrakion is a menace offensively, its typing and mediocre bulk leave it wanting more in terms of defensive prowess. Being weak to common offensive attacking types, such as Ground, Fairy, Fighting, Water, and Steel, means switching Terrakion in is difficult, even on certain Knock Off users. On top of this, Close Combat's defense drops make it even easier to revenge kill with priority from the likes of Azumarill, Scizor, and Talonflame. Choice Scarf Terrakion lacks the raw firepower to break past the likes of Clefable, Hippowdon, Slowbro, and Landorus-T, while other more powerful sets are easily revenge killed due to their Speed. Nevertheless, even with its downsides, Terrakion proves itself as one of the most devastating wallbreakers in the tier and is a strong choice for most offensive teams. Close Combat is Terrakion's most powerful STAB attack, and it heavily damages even Pokemon that resist it and plows through offensive checks. Stone Edge targets the likes of Azumarill, Tornadus-T, Talonflame, and Landorus-T if they attempt to switch in. Rock Slide provides Terrakion with a more accurate Rock-type STAB attack that is better when you're finishing off a weakened target; however, the power difference compared to Stone Edge is extremely noticeable, and it fails to KO certain targets that Stone Edge would. Iron Head lets Terrakion heavily pressure the likes of Clefable without having to rely on the shaky accuracy of Stone Edge. Quick Attack gives Terrakion some form of priority, allowing it to revenge kill a heavily weakened Charizard X or Mega Lopunny. However, even with a Choice Band, the move is extremely weak, and it should only be used when the target is guaranteed to be KOed by it. Earthquake is another option, targeting the likes of Jirachi, Metagross, and Klefki, damaging them a bit more than Close Combat and also not lowering Terrakion's defenses. Unfortunately, Earthquake is a terrible move to be Choice-locked into, as Flying-types and Pokemon with the ability Levitate are immune to it, and it is fairly weak against bulkier walls. Maximum investment in its Attack stat provides Terrakion with as much physical prowess as possible, and maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature allows it to outpace base 100 Speed Pokemon and Speed tie with Keldeo. When it has a Choice Band equipped, Terrakion's Attack stat soars to sky-high levels, and it is able to blow past a large portion of the metagame. Justified is Terrakion's only ability and is sometimes situational, but it allows Terrakion to get an Attack boost off a Dark-type move. Bring Terrakion in during the early game, if possible. Thanks to its insane power with a Choice Band, Terrakion is able to heavily weaken most foes, giving teammates an easier time to sweep later on. Unless Terrakion has a guaranteed KO on the opposing Pokemon, try not to leave it on the field after a use of Close Combat, as its defenses become pathetic afterwards. Terrakion is best switched in after a teammate's slow U-turn or Volt Switch, as its mediocre typing prevents it from switching directly into hard-hitting attacks. Pokemon that appreciate Choice Band Terrakion's natural wallbreaking potential, such as Swords Dance Talonflame, Weavile, Mega Scizor, and Mega Lopunny, make good teammates. The last forms a fantastic Fighting-spam core and together they break down each other's checks and counters. Latias and Latios are able to safely switch into Fighting-, Water-, and Ground-type attacks targeted at Terrakion, and Terrakion is able to get a Justified Attack boost from Dark-type attacks aimed at the duo. Grass-types, such as Serperior, Mega Venusaur, and Celebi, are able to defeat the likes of Azumarill, Hippowdon, Slowbro, Suicune, and Landorus-T. Electric-types such as Mega Manectric, Rotom-W, Thundurus, and Raikou handle Water-types that are able to stomach Terrakion's attacks. Dark-types, such as Bisharp and Weavile, defeat Slowbro and Celebi and pressure Hippowdon and Gliscor. Fairy-types, such as Mega Altaria, Clefable, and Mega Gardevoir, maul physical walls, allowing Terrakion to go wild late game with Close Combat. Magnezone traps and KOes Mega Scizor, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn, which can all handle a Terrakion locked into the wrong move. Hazard setters such as Klefki, which can provide speed control with Thunder Wave, Tyranitar, which gives Terrakion a Special Defense boost but shares awful typing synergy with it; and Landorus-T, which help Terrakion achieve OHKOs or 2HKOs it could not normally get. Swords Dance is Terrakion's main setup move, boosting its Attack to sky-high levels. This allows Terrakion to blow through general checks, especially the likes of Skarmory, Hippowdon, and Garchomp. Close Combat is an extremely high-powered STAB move that tears apart Pokemon that do not resist it. Stone Edge provides fantastic neutral coverage with Close Combat, nailing Flying-types, such as Tornadus-T and Talonflame, if they attempt to switch in. Substitute prevents status from the likes of Thundurus, and Klefki, which can give Terrakion an opportunity to sweep. On the other hand, Rock Polish boosts Terrakion's Speed to astronomical levels, allowing it to easily outpace the entire unboosted metagame. Stealth Rock is another possibility, used to wear down Pokemon as they switch in, and Terrakion can set it up on a predicted switch. Quick Attack is a final option that gives Terrakion some form of priority and picks off faster, weakened targets. However, it is extremely weak, even at +2. Maximum investment in Terrakion's Attack and Speed stats with a Jolly nature lets it hit as hard as possible and outpace base 100 Speed Pokemon, such as Charizard, Manaphy, and Gardevoir, while Speed tying with Keldeo and other Terrakion. An Adamant nature can be used over Jolly, allowing Terrakion at +2 to OHKO Hippowdon, Calm Mind Manaphy, defensive Garchomp, Slowbro, and Gliscor. Sadly, missing out on outspeeding opposing base 100 Speed Pokemon, which often run maximum Speed and a positive nature, is a huge thorn in Terrakion's side, leaving Jolly as the preferred nature for the majority of the time. Life Orb is the best item for Terrakion, sacrificing a small amount of HP each turn while providing a significant increase to attacking prowess. Justified is Terrakion's only ability, and it is useful when Terrakion is hit by a Dark-type move. Instead of setting up with Swords Dance turn one, Terrakion's best play early-game is to use Close Combat or Stone Edge. This whittles down defensive walls very quickly, allowing Terrakion to muscle through them with Swords Dance-boosted attacks later. Against offensive teams, boosting Attack isn't as important as blowing through frailer Pokemon with its dual STAB combination, as most of such teams will have a solid way to defeat Terrakion due to its questionable Speed. When using Close Combat, be wary of the defense drops that come along with it. Lowering Terrakion's mediocre defenses even further makes it extremely vulnerable to priority from the likes of Azumarill, Scizor, and Talonflame and to revenge killers, such as Latios, Mega Manectric, Mega Metagross, and most Choice Scarf users. Terrakion is best switched in through a slow U-turn or Volt Switch from a teammate, as predicting wrong is very costly. Terrakion has very limited switch-ins, and the majority of them, particularly the likes of Celebi and Slowbro, are heavily pressured by various Dark-type Pokemon, such as Weavile and Bisharp. Latios and Latias appreciate Terrakion's ability to check Tyranitar and Bisharp, and, in return, the duo is able to defeat most bulky Ground- and Water-types that threaten Terrakion. Grass-types, such as Serperior, Mega Venusaur, and Celebi, pressure Ground- and Water-types with their respective STAB attacks. Fairy-types, such as Mega Altaria, Clefable, and Mega Gardevoir, can also break down physical walls such as Garchomp and Hippowdon. Magnezone traps Mega Scizor and Skarmory, the former being difficult for certain offensive teams to properly handle, allowing Terrakion to bust through the opposing team once they are eliminated. Close Combat is Terrakion's most devastating move and, even without a boosting item, tears through weakened Pokemon that don't resist it. However, it comes with the cost of lowering Terrakion's defenses after its use. Stone Edge provides phenomenal coverage with Close Combat, targeting Flying-, Ghost-, and Psychic types, especially the likes of Talonflame, Latios, Mega Charizard Y, and Tornadus-T. Rock Slide provides Terrakion with a more accurate way of finishing off weakened targets and does not have the nasty side effect of lowering its defenses. However, the power drop between this and Terrakion's other options is quite noticeable. On the other hand, Toxic cripples bulky walls, such as Hippowdon, Slowbro, Garchomp, and Landorus-T, as they switch in to handle an attack. Iron Head gives Terrakion a way to deal heavy damage to Fairy-types, doing decent damage to Clefable, OHKOing Mega Diancie, and OHKOing Mega Gardevoir after Stealth Rock damage. Maximum Attack investment allows Terrakion to deal as much damage as possible. A Choice Scarf lets Terrakion outspeed the unboosted metagame and revenge kill Pokemon such as Tornadus-T, Mega Lopunny, and +1 Mega Charizard X, and maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature allows it to stay in its crucial Speed tier if it happens to lose its Choice Scarf to Knock Off. Justified is Terrakion's only ability and gives Terrakion an attack boost if it is hit by a Dark-type move. When using Terrakion late-game to clean up, make sure you don't overestimate its firepower. While its moves have high Base Power, sometimes even such power isn't enough to KO a target. Make sure everything is weakened to a degree that Terrakion can break past it. Terrakion serves as a fantastic revenge killer to certain Choice Scarf Pokemon, such as Tyranitar and Jirachi, as well as most Dragon Dance users. This includes Dragonite, a weakened Mega Altaria, and Mega Charizard X. Terrakion's already mediocre defenses are lowered even further by Close Combat's drops, so if the opponent has a powerful priority user such as Scizor or Azumarill, be wary of mindlessly clicking it. Although Terrakion has access to Justified, switching directly in to Knock Off is generally an unfavorable play; due to the nature of offensive teams, Terrakion desperately wants to keep its Choice Scarf to be able to outspeed otherwise faster Pokemon. When pinned up against the likes of Landorus-T and Slowbro, catch them on the switch with Toxic to cripple them. Just beware that locking Terrakion into Toxic means it can be taken advantage of. Grass-types, such as Serperior, Mega Venusaur, and Celebi, break down the likes of Hippowdon, Azumarill, Quagsire, and Suicune, which are all decent checks to Terrakion. Latios and Latias provide Defog support, and Healing Wish support in the latter's case, and check Water-, Fighting-, and Ground-types for Terrakion. In return, Terrakion handily defeats Bisharp and Tyranitar. Water-types, such as Manaphy, Azumarill, and Starmie, handle Ground-types that Choice Scarf Terrakion might not have the power to break through before they are weakened. Fairy-types, such as Clefable, and Mega Gardevoir, hit physical walls hard with their respective STAB attacks and break down Terrakion's answers such as Slowbro. Dark-types such as Bisharp and Weavile pressure defensive walls, such as Garchomp and Hippowdon, early on, so that Terrakion has an easier time defeating them. Magnezone traps Mega Scizor and Skarmory, as Terrakion lacks the power to defeat them if they are near full health. Terrakion's movepool is quite shallow, so it struggles to find moves to use outside of its standard sets. Hidden Power Ice targets defensive Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Gliscor, also preventing Terrakion from taking recoil damage from the former; however, it has very limited uses outside of hitting these targets and, for the most part, you're better off using one of Terrakion's STAB attacks to handle them. A set with a Focus Sash and Stealth Rock can be used to make Terrakion a decent suicide lead.
Terrakion (SM competitive strategy): Terrakion is one of the strongest wallbreakers in the UU tier thanks to its high Attack stat and amazing STAB combination. It can also work as a fearsome setup sweeper with Swords Dance, as it's able to pressure and break through a lot of stall and balance teams. Despite facing competition from other Fighting-types like Infernape and Cobalion, Terrakion sets itself apart from them due to its ability to beat common Fighting-type answers like Togekiss and Moltres, its better Attack stat, and its access to Justified. However, Terrakion's typing is very poor defensively, making it easily exploitable and weak to a lot of priority moves like Bullet Punch, Mach Punch, and Aqua Jet and common typings, such as Steel, Psychic, Ground, and Fighting. The Defense and Special Defense drops caused by using Close Combat only aggravate this weakness. On sets utilizing a Z-Move, Terrakion can be easily exploited by bulky threats like Hippowdon and Alomomola that can tank a hit from it and cripple it after it has used its Z-Move. Terrakion is also outsped by a lot of common threats in the metagame, such as Latias and Gengar, meaning it can have a hard time sweeping. Swords Dance boosts Terrakion's Attack by two stages, allowing it to break through bulkier teams with ease. Stone Edge is Terrakion's strongest Rock-type STAB attack, and in combination with Rockium Z, it can turn into a very powerful Continental Crush, which can KO Pokemon like Mega Slowbro and Gligar after some prior damage. Close Combat is a stronger and more reliable STAB move that hits Pokemon that resist Stone Edge like Quagsire hard. It can also OHKO Pokemon like Hippowdon and Swampert if used in combination with Fightinium Z to turn into a very strong All-Out Pummeling. Earthquake allows Terrakion to OHKO Pokemon like Volcanion and Chandelure without having to risk missing Stone Edge and KO Doublade at +2 after some some prior damage. Stealth Rock is a viable option in the last moveslot if no other Pokemon on the team can afford to use it. Protect can also be used to scout for moves and Choice-locked Pokemon, such as Choice Band Scizor and Choice Scarf Hydreigon. Maximum Attack allows Terrakion to hit as hard as it can without a boosting nature. 252 Speed EVs and a Jolly nature let Terrakion outspeed Pokemon like Nihilego and non-Choice Scarf Hydreigon and Speed tie with Pokemon like Cobalion. Rockium Z turns Stone Edge into a powerful Continental crush, which allows Terrakion to break through some of its checks such as Mega Slowbro after some prior damage. Fightinium Z is an alternative for a Z-Move, as it allows Terrakion to OHKO Pokemon that resist Stone Edge like Quagsire and Hippowdon with +2 All-Out Pummeling. Life Orb is a decent option, allowing it to pressure bulkier teams far more easily by 2HKOing Pokemon like Quagsire with Close Combat and OHKOing Pokemon like Latias and Celebi with Stone Edge after a Swords Dance; however, Terrakion struggles with longevity even without the recoil from Life Orb, so this could prove problematic for it. Babiri Berry could be chosen in order to take a Bullet Punch from Scizor while sacrificing the power from a Z-Move, allowing Terrakion to break through teams or sweep more easily. Justified is Terrakion's only available ability, allowing it to get an Attack boost whenever it is hit by a Dark-type attack. Additionally, if holding a Z-Move, it also allows Terrakion to act as a Knock Off absorber from Pokemon like Alolan Muk and Choice-locked Krookodile. Early-game, Terrakion should focus on attacking instead of setting up with Swords Dance so it can whittle down the opposing team. Setting up with Terrakion before Pokemon with access to priority moves like Scizor or that usually hold a Choice Scarf like Krookodile are removed is not advised, as Terrakion will most likely not be able to sweep. However, against bulkier teams that lack the ability to easily revenge kill Terrakion you should prioritise setting up on Pokemon it can force out like Blissey. Terrakion should be brought in via double switches, via pivoting, or if a Pokemon has fainted, as it has a poor defensive typing and cannot afford to switch in directly to most Pokemon. However, if holding a Z-Move, as it can't lose its item, Terrakion can be used to switch into a predicted Knock Off to get an Attack boost from Justified. Both Continental Crush and All-Out Pummeling should be used carefully, as they can only be used once and are necessary for Terrakion to be able to break through Pokemon like Mega Slowbro, Gligar, and Hippowdon. Using them against the wrong Pokemon can be very costly. If running Stealth Rock in the last slot it should attempt to set them up early-game with all the switches it can force and ability to overwhelm common entry hazard removers in Gligar and Tentacruel after a Swords Dance. If Terrakion lacks Earthquake and is against a foe like Doublade it is best to double switch in order to gain momentum, especially if Stealth Rock has already been set up. Finally, once the Pokemon that can threaten Terrakion are removed, it should try to find opportunities to set up by making predictions and double switches in order to break through and potentially sweep the opposing team. Terrakion fits best on offensive teams that appreciate its ability to break through bulkier builds. Due to its bad defensive typing, Terrakion has a very hard time directly switching in and thus pairs well with U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Scizor and Mega Manectric that can bring it in safely. Entry hazard setters such as Mega Aggron, Krookodile, and Klefki make good teammates for Terrakion, as hazards can secure OHKOs on certain Pokemon, such as Mega Slowbro and Hippowdon. Pokemon like Moltres and Tentacruel are able to tank most priority moves aimed at Terrakion, such as Scizor's Bullet Punch and Infernape's Vacuum Wave. Entry hazard removers like Volcanion and the aforementioned Moltres and Tentacruel make great partners, as they can prevent Terrakion being worn down and can pressure bulky Ground-types for Terrakion. Pursuit users such as Choice Scarf Krookodile and Choice Band Scizor are able to trap threatening Pokemon for Terrakion like Latias and Starmie. Ground-immune Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Togekiss make good partners, since they're able to easily switch into Pokemon like Hippowdon and Choice Scarf Krookodile, which can usually threaten Terrakion. Grass-types like Celebi and Tsareena also pair well with it for the same reason. Choice Scarf Latias has good synergy with Terrakion, as it can check faster Pokemon that usually threaten Terrakion such as Choice Scarf Infernape, and it has access to Healing Wish, which can heal Terrakion back up after it has weakened the opposing team. In return, Terrakion can take advantage of Pokemon that lock themselves into Dark-type moves such as Choice Scarf Krookodile and Choice Band Scizor and try to set up. Pokemon like Doublade and Gengar can also force the same situation and thus pair well with Terrakion. Magneton pairs very well with Terrakion, as it can check Fairy-types such as Sylveon, bring Terrakion in safely via Volt Switch, and most importantly, trap and remove Scizor, which can prevent Terrakion from sweeping with Bullet Punch. Close Combat is Terrakion's strongest and most accurate STAB move, dealing a great amount of damage to anything that doesn't resist it. Stone Edge complements Close Combat by hitting Pokemon that resist Fighting-type attacks, such as Latias and Sylveon, hard. Earthquake allows Terrakion to hit Doublade, which would otherwise be able to completely wall it. It can also be used to revenge kill Pokemon like Nidoking and Tentacruel, which usually avoid the OHKO from any of Terrakion's other moves. Toxic allows Terrakion to cripple non-Rest Mega Slowbro, Hippowdon, and Alomomola which can stomach a hit and retaliate with their STAB coverage or status. Quick Attack could also be used in the last slot to pick off weakened faster threats such as Latias and a Speed boosted Mega Sharpedo. However, it's important to note that Quick Attack should only be used if it can absolutely revenge kill the foe, as it's a very weak move. Rock Slide can be used over Toxic as a more reliable Rock-type STAB move that guarantee OHKOes Moltres and Rotom-H, however, it is much weaker than Stone Edge and shouldn't be used in any other situations, as it misses out on the OHKO or 2HKO on a lot of Pokemon, such as Primarina and Starmie. Maximum Attack investment coupled with a Choice Band allows Terrakion to be as strong as it can be with a neutral nature, making it extremely difficult to switch into. 252 Speed EVs and a Jolly nature provide Terrakion with the ability to outspeed Pokemon like Nihilego, Hydreigon, and Celebi and Speed tie with Cobalion and non-Choice Scarf Infernape. Justified is the only available ability for Terrakion. However, it can give Terrakion an Attack boost whenever it is hit by a Dark-type attack, like Hydreigon's Choice-locked Dark Pulse or Mega Houndoom's Dark Pulse. While using Terrakion, it's advised to make predictions often, as the opponent can take advantage of the fact that Terrakion has to be locked into a move whenever it fires off an attack. For instance, if the opponent is predicted to switch into a Pokemon that resists Close Combat, such as Latias, then Stone Edge should be used, and vice versa. Making a bad prediction may cause a loss of momentum and give the opponent an advantage, so Terrakion should be used carefully. Additionally, Terrakion should not switch into attacks directly, as its typing is very poor defensively. Instead, it should be brought in via double switches, via pivots, or when a Pokemon has fainted. Even with Justified, it shouldn't switch into Dark-type moves most of the time, as most Dark-type Pokemon can still threaten Terrakion with their other moves; Terrakion should be especially wary of Knock Off users, which cause it to lose its Choice Band. It should only switch in on attacks like a Choice-locked Hydreigon's Dark Pulse. Earthquake should be used on a predicted switch to Doublade, while Toxic should be used to cripple bulky Pokemon that try to switch into Terrakion, specifically Mega Slowbro, as they can avoid being 2HKOed by any of its moves. Toxic also alleviates the need to correctly predict what move Terrakion needs to lock itself into to break these bulkier foes. Use Quick Attack to pick off a weakened target that usually outspeeds Terrakion, such as a weakened Latias or Choice Scarf Hydreigon that can otherwise revenge kill it easily after taking prior damage. Terrakion is best used on offensive teams that appreciate its ability to break through walls and weaken foes. Terrakion has a very hard time switching in due to its poor defensive typing, so it pairs well with U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Scizor and Mega Manectric that can bring it in safely. Cleaners such as Mega Sharpedo and Swords Dance Scizor make good teammates, as they can take advantage of Terrakion's ability to weaken the opposing team. Entry hazard setters such as Hippowdon, Krookodile, and Klefki also pair well with Terrakion, as it can force a lot of switches and hazards may also secure OHKOs or 2HKOs on certain Pokemon, such as Latias and Slowbro. Klefki in particular is a great partner for Terrakion due to its ability to cripple faster Pokemon like Latias and Mega Aerodactyl with Thunder Wave. Grass-types such as Celebi and Tsareena also make good partners, as they can check most bulky Ground- and Water-types that threaten Terrakion, such as Hippowdon and Alomomola. Terrakion appreciates being paired with Pokemon that can check Psychic-types like Slowbro and Latias, as they can threaten it a lot. Examples of such Pokemon include Empoleon, Choice Scarf Hydreigon, and Mega Aggron. Pursuit trappers such as Choice Band Scizor and Choice Scarf Krookodile make great partners as they are able to trap and remove the likes of Latias for Terrakion. Ground-immune Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Togekiss also make good partners, as they can switch into Ground-types like Hippowdon and Choice Scarf Krookodile that usually threaten Terrakion. Pokemon like Moltres, Tentacruel, and Rotom-H also pair well with Terrakion because they're able to sponge the priority moves aimed at it such as Scizor's Bullet Punch and Infernape's Vacuum Wave. Rotom-H is a especially good partner, as it can also bring Terrakion in with Volt Switch. Magneton, although situational, can be a very useful partner, as it can bring Terrakion in with Volt Switch, check Fairy-types, and most importantly, trap and remove Pokemon like Scizor, which can threaten Terrakion a lot. A Double Dance set utilizing both Swords Dance and Rock Polish can be used to punish more fast-paced teams, but it's not very reliable, as it's still prone to being revenge killed by priority users and has a hard time setting up. Choice Scarf can be used to make Terrakion a decent revenge killer but the loss of power without a Choice Band or Z-Move is very noticeable, preventing it from being able to break through bulkier Pokemon like Gligar and Hippowdon at all. A dedicated Stealth Rock set with Focus Sash could be used on very fast-paced teams, as Terrakion can threaten the opposing team with Swords Dance boosts. A set utilizing the combination of Substitute and Salac Berry is an option, as Terrakion could have more opportunities to set up a Swords Dance behind a Substitute, while the Speed boost could allow it to threaten offensive teams more easily, but it's still very hard to set up with this set.
Terrakion (SS competitive strategy): On Rock teams, Terrakion acts as a powerful revenge killer that decimates Steel-type foes like Bisharp and Excadrill. Its great Speed tier makes it an effective user of Choice Scarf, outspeeding foes like Choice Scarf Zarude, Zeraora, and Spectrier. Terrakion uses both STAB types with Stone Edge and Close Combat thanks to their great synergy, with Stone Edge hitting foes like Spectrier and Close Combat hitting foes that Stone Edge cannot, like Excadrill. Earthquake gives it a means of hitting Aegislash, Nidoking, and Klefki super effectively. Poison Jab allows Terrakion to reliably hit Fairy-types like Tapu Bulu and Tapu Fini. All of Terrakion's teammates appreciate its ability to pressure Steel-type foes like Bisharp and Excadrill. Shuckle is a great teammate for Terrakion, as not only can it slow opposing Choice Scarf users like Gengar down with Sticky Web, but it can also chip them via Stealth Rock. Meteor Beam Nihilego can break down Water, Ground, and Fairy teams easily by beating foes like Barraskewda, Gastrodon, and Tapu Bulu. It can also run Sticky Barb to wear down foes like Corviknight and Landorus-T, allowing Terrakion to have an easier time sweeping Flying teams. In return, Terrakion is able to devastate Steel and Dark teams for Nihilego. Tyranitar's sand lets Terrakion switch into attacks significantly more easily, and it stops Swift Swim users like Barraskewda and Kingdra from outspeeding Terrakion. Furthermore, Tyranitar deals with foes like Choice Scarf Latias and Slowbro that give Terrakion trouble. Barbaracle is a good teammate for Terrakion, as it can deal with Sand Rush Excadrill and Weavile after Shell Smash. Rhyperior is a decent, teammate, as it not only provides an immunity to Electric, but it can also gang up on Steel-type cores with Terrakion, like those with Heatran and Aegislash. On Fighting teams, Terrakion acts as a very effective revenge killer that checks threats like Thundurus-T and Cinderace with its great Speed tier and STAB coverage. Stone Edge is Terrakion's main STAB move and hits Flying-type Pokemon like Zapdos, Galarian Moltres, and Tornadus-T super effectively. Close Combat is its strongest move against neutral targets like Rotom-W and common Rock-resistant foes like Excadrill and Bisharp. Earthquake, Megahorn, and Iron Head can each add super effective coverage. They nail Pokemon like Tapu Koko and Nidoking, Mew and Latios, and Tapu Lele and Mimikyu, respectively. Nidoking notably resists both Stone Edge and Close Combat. Due to its unique offensive typing, Terrakion checks many dangerous Flying-types for Fighting teams such as Tornadus-T and Zapdos. Buzzwole and Heracross both pair well with Terrakion offensively, as they can wear down Psychic-types like Slowbro and Jirachi for it. Cobalion provides Stealth Rock and Thunder Wave support, which greatly helps Terrakion's cleaning. Its Steel typing also makes it a decent check to some Fairy-type Pokemon like Tapu Lele and Hatterene. Galarian Zapdos is another good revenge killer, and it switches in on Earthquakes from Pokemon like Excadrill for Terrakion to KO them or weaken a switch-in with Thunderous Kick. Keldeo appreciates Terrakion checking threats that outspeed it, in return breaking open the walls like Celesteela, Corviknight, Galarian Weezing, and SubToxic Aegislash that Terrakion and its peers struggle to break through. Toxicroak assists Terrakion by threatening Fairy-types like Clefable, Tapu Bulu, and Azumarill and switching into powerful Water-type attacks from Pokemon like Barraskewda and Urshifu-R thanks to Dry Skin. It also has the unique niche of absorbing Toxic Spikes from Toxapex, as well as safely switching into it with no risk of suffering a Scald burn or Toxic poison. A Focus Sash lead set with Stealth Rock, Taunt, Rock Tomb, and Close Combat can be used as an alternative to Cobalion for teams that want a more offensive suicide lead. This set allows Fighting teams to use other options for Choice Scarf users and also frees up Cobalion to use another set. Megahorn can be used over Earthquake to hit Psychic-types like Latios, Latias, and Slowbro upon. switch-in. Choice Band Terrakion changes its role from a revenge killer to a powerful wallbreaker, but other Rock-types typically cover that role better. Some of the walls that it can break through with Choice Band are Hippowdon and Toxapex. A Swords Dance set with Air Balloon is also viable, as it can freely set up on foes that are Choice locked into Ground-type moves. However, this set is not recommended because it is suboptimal outside of the Ground, Flying, and Steel matchups.
Terrakion (SV competitive strategy): Terrakion is a superb wallbreaker and hyper offense lead, using its excellent Speed tier, immediate power, great offensive typing, and utility moves like Stealth Rock, Swords Dance, and Taunt to great effect. Focus Sash lead Terrakion can often disrupt opposing leads, like Jirachi and Krookodile, with Taunt before establishing its own entry hazard and potentially racking up damage with its powerful STAB attacks. Swords Dance Terrakion is incredibly threatening, as it can comfortably break past walls like Chesnaught and Hippowdon once they've taken a bit of chip damage. Terrakion does compete with other Fighting-types though, struggling to fulfill the role with stiff competition like Mienshao and Galarian Zapdos, which both have U-turn and Knock Off. While other hyper offense leads offer more utility, such as Healing Wish Jirachi and Endeavor Lycanroc, Terrakion remains a great option as a lead, setup sweeper, and wallbreaker. Thanks to its high Attack stat and almost unresisted STAB combination, Choice Band Terrakion makes for an excellent wallbreaker that is very difficult to switch into. Earthquake helps it deal with Jirachi and is a great option for picking up weakened targets without suffering from the defense drops or inaccuracy from its STAB moves. Quick Attack gives it a form of priority to deal with faster, weakened Pokemon like Cyclizar and Noivern. Justified allows Terrakion to switch into Dark-type attacks and punish moves like Knock Off from Cyclizar to boost its Attack. Tera Blast paired with Tera Ghost gives Terrakion a Ghost-type move that threatens a 2HKO on bulky Psychic-types like Slowbro and Reuniclus. Tera Rock boosts Terrakion's Stone Edge even further, making it very difficult to switch into and guaranteeing a 2HKO on Slowbro. Tera Rock helps Terrakion defensively by removing its weaknesses to Fairy and Psychic and giving it a resistance to Flying-type attacks, making it much better into revenge killers like Choice Scarf Gardevoir and Talonflame. Tera Ghost also removes its weaknesses to Fairy and Psychic, but it also removes its weaknesses to Fighting and Ground, which gives Terrakion an opportunity to take out common Choice Scarf users such as Mienshao, Galarian Zapdos, and Krookodile. Tera Ghost pairs well with Justified, deterring opposing Pokemon from hitting it with super effective Dark-type attacks in fear of boosting its Attack. Choice Band Terrakion can fit on a plethora of balance and bulky offense teams thanks to its great Speed tier and its excellent power as a wallbreaker. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Chesnaught, Empoleon, and Krookodile can help it pick up 2HKOs on bulky physical walls like Hippowdon and Slowbro and rack up residual damage on revenge killers like Choice Scarf Gengar and Krookodile switching in. Terrakion appreciates pivot support to get it in safely; therefore, Pokemon like Cyclizar and Jirachi can keep up momentum by pivoting on defensive switch-ins like Empoleon and Krookodile and create opportunities for Terrakion to attack. Terrakion appreciates Future Sight support from Pokemon like Slowbro and Reuniclus, as it can use Close Combat more freely while Future Sight punishes Fairy-, Flying- and particularly Poison-types that switch in like Amoonguss, Noivern, and Gardevoir. Lots of common Choice Scarf users such as Gardevoir, Galarian Zapdos, and Mienshao can revenge kill Terrakion, making defensive partners that can switch into the aforementioned Pokemon very valuable. Physical tanks such as Hippowdon and Slowbro and special walls like Empoleon can switch into the revenge killers while offering utility like entry hazards and Rocky Helmet chip damage. Terrakion weakening opposing Pokemon like Hippowdon, Jirachi, and Hisuian Goodra allows teammates like Choice Scarf Krookodile and Gyarados to come in afterwards and finish the job. Swords Dance Terrakion is a powerful setup sweeper, which boasts almost immediate wallbreaking power. Earthquake acts as an excellent coverage move and allows it to deal with targets such as Jirachi and Golurk easily. Substitute is an alternative that lets Terrakion safely choose whether to set up a Swords Dance or fire off a STAB move after forcing out a Pokemon like Cyclizar or Bisharp. Taunt can be used to stop entry hazards from going up and take away recovery and other status moves from foes such as Hippowdon and Slowbro. Air Balloon earns Terrakion a free turn against Ground-types such as Krookodile and can be used alongside Taunt to completely shut down Hippowdon without Stone Edge. Leftovers is an alternative that allows Terrakion to take better advantage of its decent natural bulk and synergizes particularly well with Substitute. Tera Flying removes its weaknesses to Ground- and Fighting-type attacks, thus giving it opportunities to set up against as well as break checks like Hippowdon, Chesnaught, and Choice Scarf Krookodile. Swords Dance Terrakion fits best on offense structures, particularly hyper offense, due to its ability to threaten the majority of the metagame after a single Swords Dance. It shares many of its defensive checks, like Hippowdon, with other common setup sweepers such as Bisharp and Mimikyu. This means that Terrakion can often be sacrificed to deal good damage to these checks before fainting, which enables the aforementioned sweepers to capitalize on the weakened physical walls to potentially pull off a sweep. Its great Speed tier strengthens its ability to chunk holes in the opposing team by taking advantage of common Pokemon like Jirachi and Krookodile, which can often free up teammates like Choice Scarf Gardevoir and Weak Armor Armarouge to clean up late-game. It pairs well with specially offensive wallbreakers and setup sweepers such as Nasty Plot Gengar and Calm Mind Armarouge, which can KO common Terrakion checks like Slowbro, Hippowdon, and Chesnaught with ease. Terrakion offers valuable support to teammates like Gengar and Maushold that fear Knock Off greatly, as its ability, Justified, acts as a strong deterrent against it. In addition, Terrakion can work well as a cleaner in entry hazard-stacking team structures, which try to wear down opposing teams, alongside setters such as Jirachi, Gligar, and Chesnaught, as many defensive Pokemon, such as Amoonguss and Suicune, only need to be chipped marginally to be in Terrakion's KO range after a Swords Dance. Terrakion is an effective lead for hyper offense teams due to its good Speed and great offensive presence, especially against common entry hazard removers like Cyclizar and Maushold. Rock Blast is generally used over Stone Edge to circumvent opposing Focus Sash leads, including Kleavor, though Terrakion is still unfortunately slower than Froslass and Ribombee. Swords Dance makes Terrakion a major wallbreaking threat, hindering physical walls like Hippowdown, Chesnaught, and Gastrodon that look to dampen Terrakion's impact as an offensive lead. Taunt inhibits opposing hazard leads like Jirachi, setup users such as Slowbro and Suicune, and Defog Noivern. Focus Sash best ensures Terrakion a turn to set up Stealth Rock or attack. Loaded Dice synergizes with Rock Blast, guaranteeing Terrakion can OHKO Kleavor and giving it a better chance to OHKO Mimikyu through its Disguise. Tera Ghost lets Terrakion spinblock, and the additional Fighting immunity can surprise Mienshao and opposing Terrakion. Stealth Rock set up by Terrakion enables other hyper offense staples, including Armarouge and Maushold. Defiant users, such as Bisharp and Galarian Zapdos, are especially noteworthy for punishing Defog users. Armarouge and Gardevoir can also take advantage of Talonflame for Terrakion. Moxie Gyarados particularly appreciates entry hazards chipping down foes so it can more easily start to snowball. Mimikyu is another common pick for hyper offense teams, and its Ghost typing helps preserve Terrakion's hazards against Cyclizar while deterring Maushold. Other Ghost-types, such as Gengar and Hisuian Zoroark, can similarly spinblock, and they pressure Psychic-types like Slowbro, Reuniclus, and Mew for Terrakion. Terrakion's high Speed and access to perfect coverage mean that it is an ideal Choice Scarf user that outspeeds most other Choice Scarf users in the tier, making it an excellent revenge killer. Earthquake helps it deal with Jirachi and is a great option for picking up weakened targets without suffering from the defense drops or inaccuracy from its STAB moves. Rock Slide gives Terrakion a more reliable Rock-type move to use by trading power for accuracy. Stealth Rock allows Terrakion to act as an entry hazard setter that is able to get it up on Pokemon it forces out like Choice Scarf Krookodile locked into Knock Off. Justified allows Terrakion to switch into Dark-type attacks and punish moves like Knock Off from Cyclizar to boost its Attack. Tera Rock helps Terrakion by boosting its Rock-type moves, helping it clean up versus foes that don't resist Rock and threatening a 2HKO on Amoonguss after Stealth Rock. Tera Ground boosts Earthquake's damage and threatens an 2HKO on Golurk while granting it an immunity to common Thunder Wave support like Reuniclus and Cresselia. Choice Scarf Terrakion fits best on balance and bulky offense teams, as it is a great revenge killer that can outspeed common Choice Scarf users like Gardevoir and Krookodile. Chesnaught and Hippowdon make for good partners that offer utility like entry hazards and Rocky Helmet chip damage that weaken the opposing Pokemon and make it easier for Terrakion to clean. Sand Stream Hippowdon can also set up sandstorm for Terrakion, giving it a Special Defense boost and allowing it to switch into special attacks it normally shouldn't. Terrakion struggles into strong physical walls like Hippowdon, Slowbro, and Chesnaught, which can stop it from cleaning, so bulky partners like Noivern, Talonflame, and Wo-Chien are appreciated, as they can take hits for Terrakion and force these walls out. Wallbreakers like Crawdaunt and special attackers like Magnezone and Hisuian Zoroark can also weaken the aforementioned walls while making it much easier for Terrakion to clean up. Future Sight support from Slowbro and Reuniclus makes it harder for physical walls to switch in and particularly punishes Poison-types such as Amoonguss, allowing Terrakion to use its STAB moves more often instead of locking into Earthquake. Sacred Sword is an alternative to Close Combat that can surprise IronPress foes like Registeel. X-Scissor can be used to slice through bulky Psychic-types like Reuniclus and Slowbro, which is especially beneficial on Swords Dance sets.
Blacephalon (SM competitive strategy): Blacephalon is blessed with an outstanding Special Attack stat, which, coupled with its great offensive typing in Fire / Ghost, turns it into a deadly wallbreaker. Blacephalon sets itself apart from other special wallbreakers thanks to its high Speed stat, which lets it act as a late-game cleaner and revenge killer when equipped with a Choice Scarf and outspeed a fair amount of the metagame without a boosting item. On top of that, Blacephalon's Beast Boost ability can boost its Special Attack by one stage after each KO or can be tuned to boost its Speed, further bolstering its late-game cleaning capabilities. However, Blacephalon has an annoying vulnerability to every entry hazard and a weakness to Stealth Rock. It is also weak to common priority moves like Ash-Greninja's Water Shuriken and Mega Mawile's Sucker Punch, which allows these Pokemon to stop a late-game sweep from it and gain momentum by forcing it out. Finally, the presence of Tyranitar as a top-tier threat in the metagame hurts Blacephalon's viability, since it's unable to 2HKO Tyranitar on the switch without prior damage and falls prey to Pursuit. Hidden Power Ground allows Blacephalon to potentially 2HKO Choice Band Tyranitar and is being a safe option against Heatran. Hidden Power Grass also nails Tyranitar after some prior damage, OHKOes Greninja on the switch, and deals with Gastrodon. Trick is meant to cripple Chansey on the switch in the stall matchup, which makes it easier for Blacephalon's teammates to break through it. Overheat is a stronger alternative to Fire Blast that guarantees an OHKO on some Pokemon like defensive Landorus-T and Clefable, but its Special Attack drop means that Blacephalon will be usually forced out after using it. Flamethrower is another alternative that can be run for more reliability, but the power drop from Fire Blast to Flamethrower is pretty noticeable. Choice Specs Blacephalon will be switching in several times during a game, so keeping entry hazards off the field is a priority. Blacephalon is very frail, so it's going to need to be brought into the field with the aid of VoltTurn users to start punching holes in the opposing team. Since few Pokemon resist Shadow Ball, it's a pretty safe move to use most of the time when facing a foe that Blacephalon forces out, though you have to watch out for Pursuit users like Weavile that could take advantage of Shadow Ball and trap it. Finally, don't throw out attacks recklessly if there's a Tyranitar on the opponent's team; play smart until you manage to weaken it for Blacephalon. Defog users like Tornadus-T, Tapu Fini, and Landorus-T take care of any entry hazards that would otherwise limit Blacephalon's switching opportunities. Pokemon with access to VoltTurn like Landorus-T, Tapu Koko, and Rotom-W are great teammates because they can bring Blacephalon safely onto the field. Defensive pivots to fall back on when forced out by an offensive threat, like defensive Landorus-T and Assault Vest Magearna, also make for great partners, especially if they are VoltTurn users that can get Blacephalon back onto the field easily. Teammates that pressure Tyranitar like Earthquake Mega Latios, All-Out Pummeling Tornadus-T, and Corkscrew Crash Heatran improve Blacephalon's matchup against Tyranitar teams by weakening or removing it from the game for Blacephalon to use its attacks safely. Finally, late-game cleaners that can capitalize on the holes Blacephalon punches, like Choice Scarf Kartana and Ash-Greninja, form a potent offensive core with it. Flamethrower is Blacephalon's most reliable Fire-type STAB move due to its perfect accuracy, and it is chosen over Fire Blast because the extra power isn't needed. Shadow Ball is Blacephalon's best Ghost-type STAB move and provides great coverage because it has only one resistance and one immunity. Substitute eases prediction on switches, makes Blacephalon harder to revenge kill, and gives it a number of setup opportunities, such as turning Chansey into setup fodder with avoidance of Toxic and immunity to Seismic Toss. Calm Mind boosts Blacephalon's Special Attack and Special Defense, meaning it can pose as more of a threat to bulkier Pokemon and, in some situations, take some hits despite its frailty. Maximum Speed investment in conjunction with a Timid nature is used to maximize Blacephalon's Speed. 20 Special Attack EVs give Blacephalon as much firepower as possible while keeping its Special Attack one point lower than its Speed to ensure Beast Boost boosts Blacephalon's Speed. The rest of the EVs are dumped into HP to improve Blacephalon's poor bulk, and the last 4 EVs are put into Defense as opposed to HP to ensure Blacephalon can use Substitute four times instead of three while letting it always survive Hawlucha's Acrobatics from full HP. Alternatively, a simple spread with 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe can be run to boost Blacephalon's Special Attack, improving its matchup against bulkier teams. Ghostium Z turns Shadow Ball into a 160-Base Power Never-Ending Nightmare, allowing it to bust through Pokemon that can otherwise take a hit such as Heatran, Garchomp, and Gliscor. In situations where Blacephalon is forcing a switch, it is often the correct play to get up a Substitute in order to ease prediction and make it harder for your opponent to revenge kill Blacephalon. Be sure to use Blacephalon's Z-Move to break through bulkier Pokemon that could otherwise take a hit from it in order to get a Speed boost and possibly sweep the opponent's team. Avoid letting foes afflict Blacephalon with paralysis or Toxic poison, as they severely hinder Blacephalon's offensive capabilities by making it very slow or putting it on a timer. It should be noted that this set lacks the power of other Blacephalon sets, so you'll need the opposing team to be weakened more than usual to attempt a sweep. This Blacephalon set is used strictly on hyper offensive teams, as it has great matchups against both stall and offensive team archetypes, especially when it is behind dual screens. Entry hazard setters that fit on these offensive teams, such as Landorus-T, Greninja, and Excadrill, are great partners, as they can weaken Pokemon and put them in range of Blacephalon's attacks. Excadrill's ability to use Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards makes it a great partner, as Blacephalon is affected by every type of entry hazard. Pokemon such as Kartana and Mega Gyarados that can muscle past bulky Water-types, such as Toxapex, Gastrodon, Mantine, and Pyukumuku, are good assets to Blacephalon, as it struggles to break through these Pokemon, especially the former. Finally, Tapu Koko and Alolan Ninetales are wonderful teammates because they can set up either Light Screen and Reflect or Aurora Veil, respectively, for Blacephalon, making up for its poor bulk and giving it more setup opportunities. A Choice Scarf set can be run to take advantage of Blacephalon's good STAB combination and potential to clean up against offensively oriented teams. However, it's incredibly awkward to fit onto teams. Knock Off on Choice Specs Blacephalon lets it get rid of items like Chansey's Eviolite and Mantine's Leftovers without losing the breaking power of Choice Specs, which allows it to even 2HKO Chansey on the switch with Fire Blast.
Blacephalon (SS competitive strategy): With an incredible Fire / Ghost STAB combination, sky-high Special Attack, and good Speed tier, Blacephalon is a dangerous offensive threat in generation 8 OverUsed. Choice Scarf sets take advantage of its Speed tier and ability in Beast Boost to revenge kill faster threats like Dragapult and Weavile and cleave through weakened teams, while Choice Specs variants can break through would-be checks like Toxapex and Gastrodon with some chip damage. However, while the extraterrestrial clown has a good Speed tier, Choice Specs sets are vulnerable to being revenge killed by even faster threats such as Weavile and Dragapult, and even Choice Scarf sets have to contend with fellow Ultra Beast Kartana, which outspeeds it by one point and is a fantastic Choice Scarf user in its own right. Moreover, its miserable bulk and weakness to Stealth Rock mean that it can almost never switch into an attack and is extremely reliant on pivoting support to get on the field safely. However, with the right pieces that can compensate for the aforementioned weaknesses, Blacephalon can blow the minds of unsuspecting teams at the drop of a hat. Choice Scarf Blacephalon is one of the best revenge killers and late-game sweepers in the metagame. Trick can cripple defensive checks like Blissey, Tyranitar, and Toxapex that are not particularly bothered by its STAB moves by limiting their move choices whenever they enter the field. There are a number of options for its final moveslot. Fire Blast can be used if Blacephalon desires extra power to make sweeping late-game easier, letting it 2HKO physically defensive Clefable and OHKO Protect Melmetal, but Toxic is a viable alternative that puts checks like Gastrodon and Tyranitar on a timer. Substitute allows Blacephalon to dodge status such as Thunder Wave from Clefable or Toxic from Blissey and Toxapex so it can attack multiple times after using Trick on a target. A Timid nature is generally preferred to maximize Blacephalon's revenge killing and sweeping capabilities, but a Modest nature can be used for extra power at the cost of being outsped by Scale Shot Garchomp at +1, Galarian Moltres with a neutral nature at +2, and other Choice Scarf users such as Urshifu-R and Timid Tapu Lele. Since Choice Scarf Blacephalon offers wonderful speed control and a strong late-game presence, teammates that can punch through defensive cores in the earlier stages of the game synergize extremely well with it. Therefore, wallbreakers such as Choice Specs Tapu Lele and Dragapult make for great teammates; Tapu Lele can remove special walls like Blissey and Gastrodon with Psyshock and wears down a common check in Heatran, while Dragapult forms a Ghost-type spam core with Blacephalon that can overwhelm shared checks like Tyranitar, Tapu Fini, and specially defensive Toxapex. Tapu Lele also has the additional bonus of setting up Psychic Terrain, which blocks priority moves such as Aqua Jet from Urshifu-R when Blacephalon is trying to sweep late-game. As Blacephalon is incredibly frail and weak to Stealth Rock, slow pivots and good hazard removers are almost mandatory teammates. Landorus-T compresses both roles excellently with access to Defog and a slow U-turn, allowing it to remove Stealth Rock from the likes of Heatran and Garchomp, that are often employed to check Blacephalon, before safely bringing it onto the field. Landorus-T can also be a reliable Stealth Rock setter if paired with another Defogger to wear down the likes of Tapu Fini, Toxapex, and Tyranitar. Tornadus-T and Zapdos are strong alternative Defoggers that provide pivoting support with U-turn and Volt Switch, respectively, and are great checks to Kartana, particularly Choice Scarf variants. Zapdos has the distinction of helping with Blacephalon's checks by threatening Water-types like Toxapex and Tapu Fini and wearing down Ground-types like Gastrodon and Landorus-T that also check Blacephalon with Hurricane and Toxic. As Tyranitar stonewalls Blacephalon, proper checks to it are greatly appreciated. Buzzwole is an exemplary partner, as it not only checks Tyranitar reliably with its access to Roost but also chases out Ground-types like Landorus-T and Garchomp with Ice Punch and special walls like Blissey with STAB Close Combat. Choice Specs Blacephalon is one of the tier's most frightening wallbreakers with the strong neutral coverage of Shadow Ball and the extra power of Flamethrower that can overwhelm checks such as Hippowdon and Landorus-T while destroying bulky Pokemon like Melmetal that can otherwise stomach Shadow Ball. Trick disrupts switch-ins like Blissey, Toxapex, and Tyranitar by limiting their move options when they enter the field, and it comes with the extra bonus of weakening Choice Band Tyranitar's attacks while still Choice-locking it. The final moveslot has a couple of options; Overheat is preferred choice due to its fairly manageable drawback, and it is still a nuclear option that can wear down checks like Tyranitar and Assault Vest Tornadus-T while beating would-be checks such as Flame Body Heatran. However, Mind Blown is capable of outrageous feats, such as OHKOing specially defensive Landorus-T and Assault Vest Tornadus-T after Stealth Rock and guaranteeing the OHKO on physically defensive Clefable and bulky Quiver Dance Volcarona, so it is a viable alternative on teams that desire Blacephalon to do as much damage as possible to open up opportunities for teammates and do not mind it sacrificing itself to do so. Blacephalon usually runs maximum Special Attack investment to hit as hard as possible, but an EV spread of 236 HP / 20 SpA / 252 Spe with a Timid Nature allows Blacephalon to boost its Speed with Beast Boost and sweep weakened teams. Blacephalon can also avoid being 2HKOed by Scald from Toxapex with the HP investment. Choice Specs Blacephalon fits on offensive teams that appreciate Blacephalon's wallbreaking prowess and disruptive potential. Slow pivots that can bring in Blacephalon safely are incredibly important, such as Landorus-T and Slowbro. Landorus-T can check Heatran and Tapu Koko, while Slowbro can wall threats like Garchomp, Urshifu-R, and Barraskewda. Landorus-T has the bonus of being able to remove entry hazards with Defog to maximize Blacephalon's switch-in opportunities or set up its own Stealth Rock to wear down checks to Blacephalon like Heatran and Tapu Fini. Tornadus-T and Zapdos also provide pivoting support with U-turn and Volt Switch respectively while being strong Defoggers in their own right. Moreover, they are reliable checks to the dangerous Kartana and can help out against Ground-types like Garchomp and Landorus-T, which can stomach a hit from Blacephalon before retaliating with Earthquake. Rillaboom is a good offensive teammate, as Grassy Terrain gives Blacephalon a form of passive recovery and weakens the power of Earthquake, allowing it to stay in on Pokemon like Hippowdon that would otherwise KO it. Rillaboom can also threaten Water- and Ground-types that check Blacephalon like Tapu Fini, Gastrodon, and Garchomp with Grassy Glide. In return, Blacephalon can break through Rillaboom's checks, such as Zapdos, Tornadus-T, and Buzzwole. Dragapult is also a fantastic offensive teammate that can form a Ghost-type spam core with Blacephalon, breaking through shared checks such as Tyranitar, Gastrodon, and Heatran while providing pivoting support with U-turn. Weavile benefits from Blacephalon's wallbreaking power and ability to threaten its checks, such as Corviknight, Buzzwole, and Ferrothorn, and it is a good offensive check against Pokemon that outspeed and threaten Blacephalon like Dragapult and Tornadus-T. Finally, adequate checks to Tyranitar are mandatory, as it resists all of Blacephalon's attacks and can punch through defensive cores with Choice Band sets or generate progress via entry hazards and status with specially defensive sets despite its weakness to Trick. Melmetal, Ferrothorn, and Buzzwole can all stomach Tyranitar's moves relatively well and threaten it out with Double Iron Bash, Body Press, and Close Combat respectively. All of them can also check Weavile, which outspeeds Blacephalon and KOes it with Knock Off. Melmetal has the bonus of being a solid Dragapult check, while Ferrothorn can wear down grounded checks to Blacephalon like Gastrodon and Toxapex with Spikes. Taunt is a more proactive alternative to Substitute on Choice Scarf sets by preventing passive checks such as Blissey, Toxapex, and Hippowdon from setting up entry hazards, spreading status, and recovering, but Toxapex can heavily damage Blacephalon with Knock Off or Scald, while Hippowdon can outright KO Blacephalon with Earthquake. A Heavy-Duty Boots set with Flame Charge can be used as a late-game sweeper against weakened defensive teams without being locked into a move like Choice Scarf sets, but such variants lack the immediate power of Choice Specs and the Speed control of Choice Scarf. Expanding Force is a viable coverage move on Psychic Terrain teams to lure in and KO Toxapex, but unboosted Blacephalon lacks the power to break through Toxapex if Psychic Terrain is not active. Choice Scarf sets can consider running Explosion on hyper offense teams, as Blacephalon has a strong Attack stat that can take advantage of special walls like Blissey and Gastrodon while giving free entry to a teammate after fainting, but this is very risky, as Explosion is still unable to KO the aforementioned Pokemon.
Greedent (SS competitive strategy): Greedent is not a good Pokemon. It is outclassed as a setup sweeper by Bouffalant, which has a better ability with Sap Sipper and a useable Speed stat. Greedent is easily revenge killed and completely ruined by status moves and Knock Off. Greedent tries to sweep teams with Belly Drum when paired with Trick Room, using Cheek Pouch to fully heal after Belly Drum. In practice, Trick Room is not a good playstyle, and Greedent is practically useless when used outside of it due to its poor Speed and weakness to Fighting-types, status, and item disruption. Similarly, if Greedent can't get a Belly Drum off in the first place, then it's also useless due to having mediocre Attack and a weak STAB move. Overall, if you want to use a Normal-type setup sweeper, Bouffalant is a better choice due to being much more immediately threatening while being able to setup on Grass-type Pokemon with Sap Sipper.
Sneasler (SV competitive strategy): With a Choice Band, Sneasler becomes an incredible attacker for Poison teams, being able to effortlessly remove foes such as Ursaluna, Skarmory, and Iron Hands. Close Combat, when boosted by a Choice Band, decimates Steel- and Dark-types, gaining OHKOs on threats like Archaludon and Ting-Lu and being able to 2HKO Skarmory and Mandibuzz. Dire Claw removes targets such as Primarina and Sinistcha with ease. Throat Chop removes Psychic- and Ghost-types like Latios, Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Dragapult; alternatively, Switcheroo cripples walls such as Toxapex and Sableye, which could otherwise effortlessly handle Sneasler. Finally, U-turn gives Sneasler a solid pivot option. Galarian Slowking pairs excellently with Sneasler, being able to use Chilly Reception to safely pivot Sneasler in against threats such as Latios. It can also use Future Sight, which allows Sneasler to break past physical walls such as Toxapex and Great Tusk. In return, Sneasler can bust through special walls like Blissey and Hisuian Goodra that handle Galarian Slowking. Alolan Muk handles Ghost- and Psychic-types that would threaten Sneasler such as Flutter Mane, Spectrier, and Galarian Slowking. Amoonguss can handle Water-type threats such as Dondozo and Choice Scarf Urshifu-R that would otherwise threaten Sneasler. Galarian Weezing provides a crucial Ground immunity thanks to Levitate, enabling it to take on threats such as Clodsire, Garchomp, and Dragonite. Galarian Weezing can also use Defog to remove entry hazards for Sneasler, preventing it from getting chipped down. Choice Specs Iron Moth can cleanly remove physically bulky threats such as Sinistcha and Okidogi along with handling threats such as Landorus, Gliscor, and Gholdengo. Pecharunt can come in on priority moves from the likes of Scizor and Hisuian Arcanine, threaten them with Foul Play, and then use Parting Shot to safely pivot Sneasler back in. Glimmora can check problematic Flying-types like Moltres and Tornadus-T along with being able to set Stealth Rock to wear down threats such as Gholdengo and Galarian Weezing. Overqwil can provides Spikes support as well as handle Iron Boulder. Sneasler is an amazing revenge killer on Poison teams, especially with a Choice Scarf, as it can outspeed the likes of Regieleki, Choice Specs Dragapult, and Roaring Moon with powerful STAB moves, spread poison with Poison Touch, and keep up the momentum with U-turn. Close Combat blasts through Steel- and Dark-types such as Heatran, Iron Treads, and Hydreigon with ease. Dire Claw deals with the Ogerpon formes and Iron Valiant, and it has a small chance to inflict paralysis or sleep on would-be checks like Torkoal and Galarian Weezing. Gunk Shot may be preferred over Dire Claw for its ability to OHKO threats like Flutter Mane and Primarina while avoiding contact effects from its foe's abilities such as Zapdos's Static. Finally, Switcheroo can shut down physically bulky walls such as Skarmory and Toxapex, which would otherwise beat Sneasler. Alternatively, Throat Chop allows Sneasler to hit Ghost-type threats such as Dragapult, Spectrier, and Hisuian Zoroark, while Rock Slide removes targets like Volcarona and Iron Moth. With U-turn, Sneasler can easily pivot out to Alolan Muk to take on Psychic-type threats such as Mew, Galarian Slowking, and Hatterene, which Sneasler cannot handle. Similarly, Overqwil can dispatch physical Psychic-type foes like Gallade and Iron Boulder while also providing Spikes, which can allow Sneasler to OHKO targets like Flutter Mane and Ursaluna. Amoonguss provides a solid check to Ground- and Water-type threats such as Great Tusk, Excadrill in sand, and Urshifu-R, which could otherwise handle Sneasler. Galarian Weezing provides a crucial immunity to Ground- and Dragon-type attacks that allows it to easily deal with foes like Hippowdon and Dragonite, use Defog to remove entry hazards, and enable Sneasler to come in safely. Toxapex can easily come in on priority users like Mimikyu, Scizor, and Hisuian Arcanine attempting to revenge kill Sneasler and handle them thanks to a combination of Rocky Helmet and Surf. Pecharunt and Galarian Slowking can provide Sneasler with safe entry by using their pivoting moves like Parting Shot and Chilly Reception, respectively. Pecharunt also provides support by being able to take on opposing physical walls such as Galarian Weezing and Araquanid. Galarian Slowking, meanwhile, can use Future Sight to cripple physical walls attempting to handle Sneasler such as Toxapex and Hippowdon. Glimmora can deal with Flying-types such as Tornadus-T and Zapdos while setting Stealth Rock to help deal with threats such as Latios. Furthermore, Corrosion enables it to use Toxic to wear down targets such as Galarian Weezing and Corviknight, which otherwise wall Sneasler. Iron Moth provides a special attacking complement to Sneasler while being able to deal with physical walls such as Amoonguss and Skarmory. In return, Sneasler deals with special walls that cause Iron Moth trouble such as Blissey and Tyranitar. With a pair of Heavy-Duty Boots Sneasler can fill a unique role on Poison teams as an incredible offensive pivot, with its high Speed and Attack allowing it to handle targets such as the Ogerpon formes and Iron Treads with ease. U-turn combined with Heavy-Duty Boots will allow it to stay safe throughout the entire game by switching out against a threat to bring in a teammate that can deal with it; in addition, U-turn comes with a 30% chance to poison thanks to Poison Touch, which helps make progress by putting checks to it such as Quagsire and Mandibuzz on timers. Close Combat is a strong nuke against many of the tier's common threats like Hydreigon, Heatran, Kyurem, and Ursaluna. Dire Claw's incredible chance to inflict status allows it to not only slash through prominent Fairy- and Grass-types like Iron Valiant, Hatterene, and the Ogerpon formes but also make progress in matchups where its traits aren't as valuable like against Ghost teams by inflicting crippling statuses on targets like Hisuian Zoroark and Skeledirge. Finally, Fake Out can chip threats down and rack up poison damage or fish for poison before using U-turn to switch out. Unburden allows for Sneasler to become one of the fastest threats in the entire metagame, outrunning Choice Scarf users like Dragapult, Meowscarada, and Flutter Mane with ease. Air Balloon is the held item of choice, not only giving Sneasler a solid Ground immunity to threats like Gliscor and Clodsire, but also forcing them to choose between letting Sneasler set up with multiple uses of Swords Dance or popping Air Balloon so they can hit it with their powerful Ground-type STAB moves. Swords Dance's power boost is crucial in picking off physically bulky threats like Amoonguss, Hatterene, and Great Tusk. Close Combat is the STAB move of choice, hitting hard and breaking threats that attempt to take on Sneasler like Archaludon, Ursaluna, and Corviknight. Throat Chop hits Ghost- and Psychic-types attempting to absorb Sneasler's Close Combats, like Gholdengo, Dragapult, and Latias, hard. For Sneasler's last moveslot, Acrobatics can be used to make the most of Unburden with a strong move capable of breaking through Gliscor, which will attempt to stop Sneasler, while Dire Claw slices through bulky Fairy-types like Primarina, Hatterene, and Clefable. With Sneasler attempting to wallbreak as much as possible, entry hazards from the likes of Clodsire, Overqwil, and Glimmora can provide much needed chip damage against bulkier foes, like Toxapex and Skarmory, that may otherwise be able to take Sneasler on. Clodsire's Earthquakes can soften up walls like Toxapex and Forretress. Overqwil, with its solid offensive stats and part-Dark typing, can eat through Ghost- and Psychic-type threats, like Sableye, Ceruledge, and Metagross, that may attempt to stop Sneasler with their powerful priority moves. It can also weaken physical attackers with Intimidate, giving Sneasler an easier time setting up. Glimmora threatens bulky walls like Toxapex, Skeledirge, and Skarmory with the threat of Corrosion Toxic, putting them on vital timers and making them unable to check Sneasler late-game. Galarian Weezing's immunity to Ground-type attacks from the likes of Great Tusk, Clodsire, and Mamoswine makes it solid for wearing these threats down, and it's further capable of spreading burns with Will-O-Wisp to weaken physical attackers. Galarian Weezing also removes hazards with Defog to help Sneasler set up with as much health as possible. Amoonguss is able to handle strong threats with priority moves, such as Dragonite and Metagross, with Foul Play, which gives solid utility in picking these revenge killers off, and it is also able to put an opponent to sleep with Spore, giving Sneasler a free switch in and turns to set up Swords Dance. Pecharunt with Mean Look can trap physical walls like Skarmory, Galarian Weezing, and Toxapex and wear them down, making it a solid partner. Alolan Muk's strong STAB Knock Off can remove Ghost-types like Choice Scarf Gholdengo, Flutter Mane, and Spectrier. Iron Moth's strong Fire-type STAB move can melt bulky Steel-types like Corviknight and Skarmory, which may otherwise attempt to boost their Defense with Iron Defense to stop Sneasler. Iron Moth also takes out Flying-types like Gyarados and Mandibuzz with Discharge, as they otherwise may try to stop Sneasler with their high bulk and Thunder Wave and Foul Play, respectively. Okidogi appreciates Sneasler blowing through teams and can clean up weakened teams that have few threats, such as Bisharp and Hisuian Arcanine, remaining. This also works in reverse, where Okidogi first punches holes through a team and removes threats like Hisuian Zoroark and Porygon2, leaving Sneasler to clean up the rest. By virtue of its already great Speed tier further boosted by Choice Scarf, Sneasler makes for a great speedy threat on Fighting teams. Furthermore, a great ability in Poison Touch allows it to double as a potential status spreader. Dire Claw not only threatens Fairy-types such as Iron Valiant, Enamorus, and Primarina but also makes a consistent way to spread status via its secondary effect alongside Sneasler's ability. U-turn allows Sneasler to bring in a teammate safely while also dealing great damage to Psychic-types like Hoopa-U and Latios. Switcheroo disables walls such as Corviknight, Skarmory, and Archaludon, and thanks to Sneasler's Poison-typing, it doesn't need to fear obtaining Black Sludge from users like Alolan Muk and Toxapex. Alternatively, Rock Slide can be used to target Fire- and Flying-types like Volcarona, Moltres, and Zapdos, which can possibly hinder Sneasler's offensive capabilities due to the former two running Flame Body and the latter running Static. Toxic Spikes improves on Sneasler's status spreading by inflicting incoming foes without protection with poison. However, Switcheroo is the preferred option due to its potential in neutering walls. With Unburden, Sneasler becomes a devastating cleaner for Fighting teams, being able to outpace dangerous Choice Scarf threats like Flutter Mane and Greninja. Air Balloon provides Sneasler with safe entry and grants it a free turn of setup against Ground-types like Great Tusk and Landorus-T, which are forced to enable Unburden if they wish to take down Sneasler. Close Combat easily removes foes such as Ting-Lu and Archaludon after a Swords Dance. Dire Claw deals with Grass- and Fairy-types like the Ogerpon formes and Iron Valiant; at +2, Dire Claw OHKOes Hatterene and Primarina. Acrobatics, once Air Balloon is popped, enables Sneasler to deal significant damage to foes that survive Sneasler's STAB moves such as Great Tusk, Iron Moth, and Dragapult. Alternatively, Throat Chop can be used to remove bulky Ghost- and Psychic-type walls like Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking. Sneasler greatly appreciates entry hazards to wear down foes and remove bulky Poison-types, making Great Tusk an excellent teammate, which can set Stealth Rock to chip down foes that would otherwise take on Sneasler, like Tornadus-T and Focus Sash Ceruledge, and deal with bulky Poison-types like Toxapex and Unaware Clodsire. Iron Valiant can remove physical walls such as Sableye and Hippowdon with Moonblast while dealing with Flying-types like Gyarados and Moltres with Thunderbolt. Assault Vest Gallade pressures bulky Poison- and Fighting-types like Galarian Weezing and Iron Hands along with handling special attackers like Zapdos and Tornadus-T. Keldeo and Urshifu-R can threaten Ground- and Fire-types such as the Landorus formes, Excadrill, and Ceruledge. Assault Vest Iron Hands acts as a bulky tank, capable of taking on Water- and Flying-types such as Primarina, Pelipper, and Tornadus-T, along with providing safe entry for Sneasler with its slow Volt Switch, thus giving Sneasler a chance to set up with Swords Dance. Alternatively, Swords Dance Iron Hands can eliminate bulky Water- and Flying-types like Toxapex, Pelipper, and Corviknight. Assault Vest Okidogi can complement Sneasler as a Poison-type threat, capable of handling targets such as Flutter Mane and Azumarill that Sneasler cannot set up on. In return, Sneasler's great Speed can handle foes such as Enamorus and the Ogerpon formes. Gunk Shot provides a solid but risky power boost over Dire Claw, being able to OKHO Galarian Weezing after a Swords Dance and entry hazard chip. Gunk Shot is also beneficial by not being a contact move, preventing activation of Flame Body from the likes of Talonflame or Volcarona, or Static from Zapdos, each of which can stop Sneasler in its tracks. Upper Hand can provide anti-priority utility by stopping priority move use from Weavile and Bisharp, as they may attempt to pick Sneasler off after using Close Combat. A Jolly nature allows Sneasler to outspeed targets like the Ogerpon formes prior to its Air Balloon popping, as well as Adamant Barraskewda in rain. Taunt can be used to stop bulkier threats, like Toxapex and Galarian Weezing, that attempt to handle Sneasler, denying their use of recovery and status moves. Throat Chop can be used over Dire Claw, which provides Sneasler with an option to deal with Ghost-type threats such as Hisuian Zoroark and Froslass.
Pincurchin (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to Electric Surge, Pincurchin is the best choice for a setter on Electric Terrain teams. The move Electric Terrain is even used to reset the Terrain when predicting a Thwackey switch into Pincurchin. Scald can be used to hit Ground-types like Rhydon, Piloswine, and Alolan Dugtrio. Memento provides a free turn of setup for one of the sweepers. Spikes limits the amount of switching the opponent can do, and wears down the opposing team, making it easier for one of Pincurchin's teammates to sweep. Terrain Extender is used to maximize the duration of Electric Terrain. Pincurchin's only niche is being the setter for Electric Terrain teams, so teammates that can fully take advantage of the Terrain are needed. Common setup sweepers include Electric Seed Swoobat, Drifblim, and Thievul. Raichu and Manectric also make good teammates, proving an immunity to Electric and firing off powerful, Terrain-boosted Rising Voltage. Ground-types like Rhydon, Piloswine, and Alolan Dugtrio trouble Pincurchin, so Pokemon like Gurdurr and Poliwrath work well to help cover them. Recover can be used to increase Pincurchin's longevity; however, it can be hard to fit due to the importance of its other moves and Pincurchin's low bulk making it hard for it to wall threats. Toxic Spikes can be used over Spikes, but the immediate damage of Spikes is often more useful at putting opponents in range of a KO. Eject Button can also be used to bring in a teammate for free, although this reduces the duration of the Terrain. Offensive sets under Trick Room are also options for Pincurchin, running Rising Voltage, Hydro Pump, Spikes, and Memento with a Life Orb or Choice Specs equipped.
Skeledirge (SV competitive strategy): Hex can be used on sets packing Will-O-Wisp to deal massive damage to burned foes, notably letting Skeledirge OHKO Slowking at +1 after burn damage, while also helping put a lot of pressure on Pokemon such as Tornadus-T and Rotom-W that may try to pivot around Skeledirge once they have been burned. Shadow Ball is a more reliable option to deal consistent damage early-game. Will-O-Wisp allows Skeledirge to put pressure on physical attackers such as Lokix and Donphan, while Earth Power can hit Heatran for large damage as well as forcing Fezandipiti to expend Roost's PP, allowing Skeledirge to safely get teammates in. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Skeledirge to ignore its otherwise ruinous Stealth Rock weakness. The EV spread allows Skeledirge to take on a wide variety of both physical and special attackers; for example, it has good odds to survive two Earth Powers from Gastrodon and has a chance to survive two High Horsepowers from Revavroom. Tera Fairy allows Skeledirge to take on Dark-types such as Lokix and Zarude while also giving it an immunity to Latios's and Hydrapple's Draco Meteors. Tera Poison gives Skeledirge an immunity to Toxic from both Fezandipiti and Toxapex; the typing lets it check Ogerpon-C and Greninja and helps it check Dark-types such as Lokix and Hydreigon. However, Tera Fairy makes Skeledirge unable to check Revavroom, while Tera Poison leaves it unable to check Latios. Both Tera types also make Skeledirge unable to block Rapid Spin from Excadrill and Donphan in a pinch. Skeledirge primarily fits best on a variety of playstyles ranging from bulky offense to stall teams, which appreciate its ability to soft check a wide array of Pokemon such as Thundurus-T, Latios, and Revavroom. Knock Off absorbers such as Skarmory and Fezandipiti are great for Skeledirge, as they can take on Pokemon such as Zarude and Lokix that Skeledirge may not be comfortable switching into for fear of losing its Heavy-Duty Boots. Water-type switch-ins such as Slowking, Hydrapple, and Rotom-W are perfect partners for Skeledirge, as they can take on Water-types such as Greninja and Keldeo that Skeledirge might struggle with, while in return, Skeledirge can take on Pokemon such as Thundurus-T that said Water-type switch-ins might struggle against. Slowking and Rotom-W in particular are great partners, as they can spread burns or paralysis to boost the power of Hex. Flying-types such as Skarmory and Tornadus-T are great for Skeledirge, as they can take on Ground-types such as Excadrill that Skeledirge may not be comfortable staying in on, while in return, Skeledirge can check Pokemon such as Thundurus-T said Flying-types can struggle against. Pivot Pokemon such as Tornadus-T and Choice Scarf Zarude are heavily enjoyed by Skeledirge, as they can safely get it in against Pokemon such as Skarmory and Slowking so that it can start pressuring opposing teams' defensive cores. Paralysis spreaders such as Slowking, Tinkaton, and Bellibolt allow Skeledirge to outspeed foes such as Fezandipiti and Manaphy while also boosting the power of Hex.
Guzzlord (SM competitive strategy): Guzzlord is a threatening wallbreaker in NU that is capable of easily exploiting common defensive cores revolving around Pokemon such as Slowking, Steelix, and Golbat due to good defensive presence courtesy of its typing and massive HP. As a result of its defensive capabilities, Guzzlord can also take on certain offensive Pokemon such as Incineroar, Houndoom, and Rotom, giving it multiple opportunities to switch in and heavily pressure opposing teams. Stellar offensive typing, high Special Attack, Beast Boost, and vast coverage options also give Guzzlord great offensive presence, allowing it to hit everything in the tier neutrally and powerfully. However, Guzzlord's horribly low Speed leaves it outpaced by almost every offensive Pokemon in the tier. While Guzzlord's typing does provide it with key resistances to Electric, Water, Fire, and Grass as well as an immunity to Psychic, it also leaves Guzzlord vulnerable to Fairy-, Fighting-, Ice-, and Bug-type Pokemon like Whimsicott, Passimian, Mega Glalie, and Vikavolt. Guzzlord's typing also leaves it susceptible to coverage options from Pokemon it could otherwise switch into with ease, such as U-turn on Incineroar, Low Sweep on Decidueye, Focus Blast on Heliolisk, and Dazzling Gleam on Delphox. Draco Meteor is an absurdly powerful STAB move that is guaranteed to hit non-Dragon-resistant and -immune Pokemon relatively hard, though the move's reliability is hindered by the fact that it drops Guzzlord's Special Attack by two stages. Dark Pulse is Guzzlord's secondary STAB move and is more reliable and spammable than Draco Meteor due to its lack of drawbacks and immunities. Fire Blast nails bulky Steel-types like Steelix, Ferroseed, and Silvally-Steel, as well as Whimsicott, which resists both of Guzzlord's STAB types. Sludge Bomb hits Fairy-types like Aromatisse and Mega Audino hard while also giving Guzzlord a more reliable means of OHKOing Whimsicott. Maximum investment in Special Attack coupled with a Modest nature makes Guzzlord a very devastating wallbreaker. 180 Speed EVs allow Guzzlord to outspeed Vaporeon. The remainder of the EVs are placed into Guzzlord's Defense to enable it to more reliably check Incineroar. Choice Specs further increases Guzzlord's damage output at the cost of locking it into one move. Beast Boost increases its Special Attack every time it KOes a Pokemon, progressively turning it into a more and more dangerous wallbreaker. Guzzlord should mainly switch into Pokemon that cannot immediately threaten it such as Palossand, Decidueye, and non-Assault Vest Slowking. Because Guzzlord is locked into one move and isn't very fast, it is reliant on prediction in order to wallbreak to the best of its ability. For example, if Guzzlord predicts a Fairy-type to switch in, it should use Sludge Bomb. Dark Pulse is the move that Guzzlord should be using most of the time, as the move's lack of drawbacks and Pokemon immune to it prevent it from being completely exploitable. Exercise caution regarding which move Guzzlord locks itself into, especially in the case of Draco Meteor, as the fact that it's slow and can't switch moves can turn it into setup fodder for dangerous Pokemon like Klinklang and Comfey. Guzzlord fits best on bulky offensive teams that are in need of a wallbreaker that can directly switch into and pressure common defensive staples, most notably defensive Slowking. Pairing Guzzlord with entry hazard setters such as Rhydon, Steelix, Garbodor, and Weezing is ideal, as Guzzlord forces a lot of switches, a number of its switch-ins lack reliable recovery, and Guzzlord is capable of pressuring hazard control and removers like Xatu, Blastoise, and Silvally-Steel. In return, the latter three can check Fairy-types, with Garbodor and Weezing also being Fighting checks. Guzzlord also appreciates having teammates that can remove or prevent entry hazards like Blastoise, Xatu, Rotom, Silvally-Steel, and Golbat, since Guzzlord is forced out by many Pokemon, lacks recovery, and cannot reliably switch into defensive Pokemon like Steelix if it takes too much residual damage. Teammates that can switch into the types that Guzzlord is threatened by are appreciated, with Fighting checks like Slowking and Golbat, Ice checks like Delphox and Alolan Sandslash, and Fairy checks like Steelix and Garbodor being notable examples. Pivots such as Passimian, Heliolisk, Rotom, and Silvally-Steel make for useful partners, since they guarantee that Guzzlord can safely switch in against opposing teams. Passimian appreciates having Fighting checks heavily damaged and can provide Knock Off support, while Rotom and Silvally-Steel can weaken opposing Pokemon with Will-O-Wisp and Parting Shot, respectively. Pokemon such as Sceptile, Aromatisse, Klinklang, and Omastar have a much easier time sweeping weakened teams late-game as a result of Guzzlord breaking through them. Draco Meteor is a powerful STAB move that threatens to hit most non-Dragon-resistant and -immune Pokemon fairly hard, though the move drops Guzzlord's Special Attack by two stages, which prevents it from being spammable and can potentially turn Guzzlord into setup fodder for Pokemon like Klinklang. Knock Off cripples checks like Golbat and Assault Vest Slowking by removing their item, making them much easier to overwhelm. Alternatively, Dark Pulse is a more consistent form of damage that lacks the drawbacks of Draco Meteor, making it easy to spam. Fire Blast gives Guzzlord super effective coverage for Steel-types such as Steelix, Ferroseed, and Silvally-Steel, as well as Whimsicott. Heavy Slam gives Guzzlord coverage for Fairy-types that don't mind taking a Fire Blast such as Comfey, Aromatisse, and Mega Audino. Heavy Slam also 2HKOes Cryogonal, meaning that Guzzlord doesn't have to waste its Z-Move attempting to KO it. Maximum investment in Special Attack coupled with a Modest nature allows Guzzlord to hit as hard as possible. 180 Speed EVs guarantee that Guzzlord outpaces Vaporeon, with the remainder of the EVs being poured into Guzzlord's Defense to give it an easier time switching into Incineroar. Dragonium Z turns Draco Meteor into Devastating Drake, a reliable and very powerful nuke that doesn't lower Guzzlord's Special Attack or have a chance to miss like Draco Meteor does. Beast Boost is Guzzlord's only ability and increases its Special Attack every time it KOes a foe, turning it into an increasingly threatening wallbreaker. Guzzlord should primarily be used to punch holes into opposing teams early- to mid-game. Switch Guzzlord in on relatively passive Pokemon that are incapable of offensively pressuring it, such as Palossand and non-Assault Vest Slowking. Be wary of Toxic, however. Dark Pulse is typically the main move Guzzlord should be using, as the move is powerful, lacks drawbacks, and doesn't have any Pokemon immune to it. Be careful about using Draco Meteor, especially against more offensive teams, since the move drops Guzzlord's Special Attack by two stages and turns it into setup fodder for Pokemon like Klinklang, Malamar, and Incineroar. Against more defensive teams, Guzzlord should preserve its Z-Move so it can break through bulkier Pokemon like Golbat and Miltank. Guzzlord's ability to bluff a Choice Specs set makes its Z-Move an even deadlier asset. Guzzlord fits best on bulky offensive teams that are in need of a wallbreaker that can directly switch into and heavily pressure common defensive staples, most notably Slowking. Guzzlord appreciates being paired with entry hazard setters such as Palossand, Garbodor, and Steelix due to the chip damage provided by entry hazards giving it an easier time breaking through teams. This is especially useful because Dragonium Z Guzzlord lacks initial firepower. Palossand and Garbodor also check Fighting-types for Guzzlord, while specially defensive Steelix is capable of taking on other special attackers that threaten Garbodor like Whimsicott and Heliolisk. Due to how easy it is to offensively pressure Guzzlord, it appreciates teammates that can check some of the types it is threatened by, including Fighting-type checks like Slowking and Golbat, Fairy-type checks like Klinklang and Garbodor, and Ice-type checks like Hariyama and Silvally-Steel. Guzzlord appreciates being paired with Volt Switch and U-turn users such as Passimian, Heliolisk, Rotom, and Scyther, since it can experience difficulty directly switching into unresisted attacks. Late-game sweepers and cleaners like Comfey, Aromatisse, Klinklang, and Choice Scarf Passimian have an easier time finishing off weakened teams as a result of Guzzlord breaking through teams early- to mid-game. Assault Vest could be used to give Guzzlord an even easier time taking on special attackers like Sigilyph and Heliolisk, but such a set is easy to wear down and isn't very powerful. A defensive RestTalk set is an option that allows Guzzlord to mitigate its lack of recovery and more consistently deal with threats like Incineroar, Slowking, and Decidueye. Sludge Wave hits harder than Sludge Bomb, but the higher chance to poison foes means that Sludge Bomb tends to be more useful for wearing Pokemon down.
Guzzlord (SS competitive strategy): Guzzlord is a solid Pokemon in RU, with its enormous bulk and defensive typing letting it check various common Pokemon like Celebi, Chandelure, Heliolisk, and Raikou. It's pretty good at taking even powerful special attacks, like Sludge Bomb from offensive Roserade and Ice Beam from Nidoqueen and wallbreaker Starmie. Knock Off has great utility, removing Heavy-Duty Boots or Leftovers from Pokemon like Milotic and Gastrodon. Offensive Guzzlord also has Heavy Slam, Earthquake, and Toxic for the Fairy-type, Steel-type, and bulky Pokemon that can take Knock Off. Guzzlord can also run a good RestTalk set that has better longevity and withstands Toxic users such as Raikou and Milotic. However, RestTalk Guzzlord is more passive, notably becoming setup bait for one of the tier's best Pokemon in Nasty Plot Togekiss. Guzzlord is destroyed by common Fighting-types such as Bewear, Heracross, and Lucario. Additionally, despite being Dark-type, it's potentially a liability against Psychic-type setup sweepers like Reuniclus, Cosmic Power Metagross, and Psycho Shift Sigilyph. All can take Knock Off, heal off the damage, and set up. RestTalk Guzzlord does beat Psycho Shift Sigilyph, but Metagross and Reuniclus can take advantage of a sleeping Guzzlord, as it'll need to get lucky with Sleep Talk rolling Dragon Tail to phaze them without taking significant damage. Heavy Slam 2HKOes Fairy-types like Togekiss and Galarian Weezing. Earthquake is Guzzlord's best option against Steel-types like Steelix and Registeel after they've taken Knock Off, and it keeps Lucario from setting up freely. On the other hand, Toxic cripples bulky Pokemon like Milotic, Gastrodon, and Incineroar. Protect scouts against Choice-locked Pokemon like Gardevoir, Flygon, and Pangoro, lets Guzzlord safely heal with Leftovers, and racks up damage if running Toxic. Dragon Tail could be run in the third moveslot to rack up entry hazard damage and soft check setup sweepers like Reuniclus and Nasty Plot Crobat. Earthquake and Toxic can be run together without Heavy Slam on teams adequate against Nasty Plot Togekiss. Because Guzzlord's HP stat is so naturally high, investing EVs in its defenses is far more efficient. 152 Defense EVs let Guzzlord survive Mimikyu's +2 Drain Punch with Stealth Rock, the Special Defense helps with Heliolisk, Nidoqueen, and Life Orb Sigilyph, and the other EVs are thrown into Attack, importantly being more than enough to OHKO Chandelure. Guzzlord pairs well with entry hazard setters like Roserade, Heavy-Duty Boots Heracross, and Steelix, since Knock Off removes Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Gastrodon and Noivern. Checks to Fighting-types like Lucario, Bewear, and Heracross are critical; Togekiss and Galarian Weezing check Pangoro and Heracross, Crobat checks Heracross and revenge kills Lucario, Noivern effectively revenge kills all the Fighting-types, and Chandelure and Jellicent check Bewear and Lucario. Haze Milotic can check the setup sweepers that beat Guzzlord, like Psycho Shift Sigilyph, Cosmic Power Metagross, and Reuniclus. Electric-types like Raikou and Xurkitree also cover Sigilyph. Golurk and Chandelure check Reuniclus and Metagross. Nidoqueen, Roserade, and Salazzle take advantage of Galarian Weezing for Guzzlord. Klefki can be handled with Ground-types like Seismitoad and Steelix, or Rapid Spin Starmie. Steel-types like Registeel and Steelix switch into Gardevoir; Steelix is especially good because it also checks Xurkitree well, which can threaten Guzzlord with Dazzling Gleam. Rest helps remedy Guzzlord's lack of recovery and lets it deal with Toxic users like Raikou and Milotic, while Sleep Talk reduces the passiveness of Rest. Guzzlord's extremely high HP stat means that investing EVs in its defenses is more effective. Special Defense investment is prioritized because Guzzlord is good against special attackers like Sigilyph and Nidoqueen that are difficult to check otherwise, but the Defense EVs still make Guzzlord notably more resilient against physical attackers like Crobat and Metagross. The Attack EVs are enough to OHKO Sigilyph and then further optimize the stat slightly. Heavy Slam could be run over Dragon Tail on teams that need to prevent Togekiss from setting up freely. Spikes and Stealth Rock users like Steelix, Roserade, Registeel, and Golisopod pair well with Guzzlord, since it uses Knock Off to remove Heavy-Duty Boots and Dragon Tail to accrue entry hazard damage. Electric- and Steel-types like Raikou, Stakataka, and Registeel are important to cover Togekiss. Steelix is a particularly notable teammate, because it also checks Xurkitree well, which threatens Guzzlord via Dazzling Gleam. Spikes Klefki and Galarian Weezing are other troublesome Fairy-types. Klefki can be checked by Pokemon like Incineroar and Dhelmise, while Nidoqueen, Roserade, and Chandelure can check Galarian Weezing. Covering Fighting-types is critical for Guzzlord. Togekiss and Galarian Weezing check Heracross and Pangoro, while Crobat switches into only Heracross but revenge kills Lucario. Jellicent and Chandelure cover Lucario, and Jellicent can also soft check Heracross. Fire Blast is an option over Earthquake that puts more pressure on Steelix and defensive Roserade, and it 2HKOes Heracross. Guzzlord could function as a wallbreaker with Choice Band or Choice Specs that checks Grass- and Electric-types like Dhelmise and Heliolisk. However, as a wallbreaker it competes with Incineroar and Pangoro, which are stronger, get past Water-types more easily, and can take advantage of Umbreon with Swords Dance.
Centiskorch (SS competitive strategy): Centiskorch makes for a great wallbreaker thanks to its fantastic movepool and great Attack, allowing it to beat most physically defensive walls and Fire-resistant Pokemon like Sandslash, Gigalith, and Jellicent. Its ability Flash Fire, decent special bulk, and typing allow it to switch into threats like Silvally-Steel and Ribombee, although its lack of recovery means it can't do so very often. However, Centiskorch's mediocre defensive typing, Speed, and Defense leave it susceptible to many faster threats like Gallade, Archeops, and Basculin, which also makes it harder to get it in the field safely. Fire Lash makes Centiskorch harder to switch into, and it allows Centiskorch to get past defensive behemoths like Weezing and Jellicent more easily. Power Whip hits Ground-, Rock-, and Water-types, and Knock Off allows Centiskorch to cripple foes reliant on their items. Due to its poor physical bulk, typing, and Speed, Centiskorch greatly appreciates teammates capable of bringing it in safely; Archeops, Togedemaru, and Ribombee are great examples, as they all appreciate it weakening down their answers like Gigalith. Basculin is another great example, as it enjoys Centiskorch softening up Jellicent. Answers to Flying-, Rock-, and Water-types like Charizard, Aggron, and Tangela are greatly appreciated, as Centiskorch often finds itself forced out by them. This makes Sandslash and Ferroseed great partners as they can also support it with their Spikes, giving it an easier time wallbreaking.
Pawmot (SV competitive strategy): Pawmot finds a niche over other Fighting-type wallbreakers such as both Paldean Tauros formes and Flamigo thanks to its great STAB combination that hits Pokemon like Galarian Articuno, Paldean Tauros-W, and Milotic; wide variety of coverage and utility options; great Speed; and useful abilities. It is also the only physical Electric-type in the tier. Knock Off provides utility by removing items from Pokemon like Galarian Slowbro and Gligar while also providing coverage for Ghost-types such as Decidueye and Golurk; however, Ice Punch provides coverage for the aforementioned Decidueye, Golurk, and Gligar while also doing more damage to other Pokemon like Colbur Berry or itemless Palossand and Altaria. Pawmot has a wide variety of options in for its final moveslot; Mach Punch gives Pawmot valuable priority against weakened setup sweepers and Choice Scarf users such as Zoroark, Paldean Tauros-W, and Staraptor. Rest should be paired with Natural Cure takes advantage of Pokemon that Pawmot forces to switch out like Bombirdier and Milotic. Finally, Volt Switch allows Pawmot to pivot against Pokemon like Goodra and Rotom-H and should be run with Heavy-Duty Boots. Life Orb allows Pawmot to achieve rolls such as having a chance to 2HKO Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro with Knock Off and OHKOing Delphox with Double Shock, but Heavy-Duty Boots lets it switch in more safely. Iron Fist boosts the power of Ice Punch and Mach Punch, but Natural Cure naturally pairs well with Rest and can allow Pawmot to recover from burn and poison. It should should be used when not running Ice Punch or Mach Punch. Volt Absorb can allow Pawmot to operate as an Electric immunity for its team, but this is generally not needed, and its other abilities are more viable. Tera Electric boosts the power of Double Shock, allowing Pawmot to OHKO Skuntank and Milotic, and makes the move spammable thanks to cancelling out the type loss from Double Shock. It also provides a useful Flying resistance, which is helpful against Pokemon like Scyther and Kilowattrel. Pawmot finds itself on offense and balance teams looking for a strong wallbreaker that can also function as a utility Pokemon with Knock Off, pivoting, and revenge killing. Pawmot struggles to break through certain physical walls such as Bellibolt and Mudsdale, so checks to these threats like Galarian Slowbro and Decidueye make excellent partners. Pawmot appreciates entry hazard control from Pokemon like Coalossal, Altaria, and Tatsugiri due to it switching out often due to Double Shock, especially if it is running Life Orb. Coalossal and Altaria can also sponge hits from faster foes that threaten Pawmot such as Galarian Slowbro and Ambipom, while Tatsugiri can form a potent wallbreaking core with Pawmot. In turn, Pawmot takes cares of their checks such as Paldean Tauros-W and Goodra. Pawmot's ability to revenge kill Pokemon like both Paldean Tauros formes, Delphox, and Bruxish means that walls checked by these threats like Bronzong, Copperajah, and Florges are excellent partners.
Zebstrika (BW competitive strategy): Zebstrika is one of the premier pivots of the metagame. With the highest Speed stat in the tier and access to Volt Switch, it finds itself nestled on just about any offensive team. Overheat also allows it to threaten the plethora of Grass-types that can usually switch in to resist its Electric-type attacks. However, Zebstrika does lack power, as it has a mediocre base 80 Special Attack and no way of boosting it outside of items, making it struggle to beat specially defensive Pokemon like Audino and Scraggy. Zebstrika is also fairly one-dimensional, lacking any sort of variability other than the user's choice of Hidden Power and item, meaning that any player should know what to expect from team preview. Thunderbolt is Zebstrika's primary STAB move, while Volt Switch allows it to quickly pivot out. Overheat, as mentioned above, hits Grass-types like Maractus and Shiftry. Hidden Power Ice allows Zebstrika to hit Ground-types, namely Gabite, Torterra, and Stunfisk. Magnet can be used over Life Orb to help Zebstrika's longevity, but the power loss on Hidden Power Ice is especially notable. Expert Belt is a middle-ground option to keep power on Hidden Power Ice, but it lacks the stronger power on neutral Thunderbolt. Fire Gem gives Zebstrika a one-time boost to Overheat, allowing it to break through would-be checks like Vileplume and Torterra more easily. Lightning Rod is Zebstrika's preferred ability, since it allows it to switch into and check other Electric-types while boosting its Special Attack, though Sap Sipper can be used instead to better check Jumpluff and Simisage and potentially swap into them in a pinch. Zebstrika's Speed is its main draw to be used on offensive teams, so slower and hard-hitting wall-breakers, like Choice Band Torterra, Beheeyem, and even some faster ones like Choice Specs Shiftry, can help greatly weaken teams to the point of Zebstrika being able to clean. Grass- and Water-types, such as the aforementioned Torterra, Maractus, and Golduck, can help handle Ground-types while also appreciating Zebstrika's ability to weaken other Grass- and Water-types with Overheat and Thunderbolt, respectively. Many Choice Scarf Pokemon can still outspeed Zebstrika despite its high Speed, the most common being Golduck, Gabite, and Dodrio. Pokemon that can switch into and check these threats, such as Vileplume, Torterra, and Klang, greatly help Zebstrika. Pokemon with U-turn, like Choice Scarf Monferno, Swoobat, and Purugly, also help form nice momentum cores with Zebstrika.
Zebstrika (XY competitive strategy): Zebstrika sports the second highest Speed stat of all relevant Pokemon in the PU metagame, which, along with its good coverage, makes it a great revenge killer and a threatening special attacker to a lot of offensive teams. It has access to two good abilities in Sap Sipper and Lightning Rod, granting it immunities to Grass- and Electric-type moves, respectively. Zebstrika is able to distinguish itself from other Electric-types such as Raichu and Rotom-F with its high Speed and its access to Sap Sipper and Overheat, allowing it to better take on Pokemon such as Tangela and Jumpluff. On the downside, Zebstrika is extremely frail, making it very easy to revenge kill. Zebstrika is relatively weak as well, sporting only a base 80 Special Attack, making it very easy to wall by common Pokemon such as Camerupt, Stunfisk, and Clefairy. Volt Switch allows Zebstrika to get off chip damage and gain momentum against Pokemon it can't deal much damage to on a predicted switch such as Grumpig and Clefairy. Thunderbolt is stronger than Volt Switch, making it a great choice to allow Zebstrika to clean late-game. Overheat allows Zebstrika to hit Grass-types such as Roselia, Jumpluff, and Tangela at the cost of dropping its Special Attack by two stages. Hidden Power Ice allows Zebstrika to take on Ground- and Dragon-types such as Fraxure and Vibrava. Maximum Special Attack and Speed investment along with a Timid nature and a Life Orb makes Zebstrika as fast and as powerful as possible. Magnet can be used in order to bluff Choice sets when Zebstrika is KOing a foe without having to take recoil from Life Orb; on the downside, it only boosts Zebstrika's Electric-type moves. Sap Sipper allows Zebstrika to take on common Grass-types such as Tangela and Jumpluff, while Lightning Rod grants Zebstrika an immunity to Electric-type moves while additionally granting it a Special Attack boost if it is targeted by one. Zebstrika should mainly use Volt Switch in order to gain momentum against its checks while also dealing damage, although you must be wary of Ground-types, which are immune to it. Thunderbolt is preferred when the opponent doesn't have a good check to Zebstrika or if the opposing team is weakened enough for Zebstrika to clean up. If Zebstrika is running Sap Sipper, it should aim to switch into Grass-type moves such as Sleep Powder and Seed Bomb from Pokemon such as Jumpluff, and if it is running Lightning Rod, it should switch into Electric-type moves. Pokemon with access to U-turn such as Ninjask and Pelipper can form a VoltTurn core with Zebstrika to keep constant momentum against opponents. Pokemon with access to Stealth Rock, Spikes, or Toxic Spikes such as Golem and Roselia allow Zebstrika to net certain KOs, such as the 2HKO on Ninetales after Stealth Rock. Wallbreakers such as Simipour and Stoutland can weaken or KO Zebstrika's checks and counters, allowing it to sweep late-game; additionally, Stoutland can take on a lot of Zebstrika's checks single-handedly. Bulkier setup sweepers such as Duosion can set up on the majority of Zebstrika's checks such as Stunfisk, Clefairy, and Vibrava. Pokemon that struggle with Grass-types, such as Relicanth, appreciate Zebstrika's ability to take them on, while Pokemon that struggle with Electric-types, such as Swanna, appreciate Zebstrika's immunity to their STAB moves. Simisage makes for a good partner for Zebstrika, as it appreciates Zebstrika's ability to take on Grass-types such as Jumpluff while Simisage can take on Ground-types such as Stunfisk, which Zebstrika struggles with. Because of its limited movepool, Zebstrika doesn't have very many other options. However, Zebstrika can run a physical attacking set, though its physical movepool is even more limited. Snatch can be used in order to steal certain moves such as Roselia's Synthesis to prevent it from recovering health. Me First can be used to allow Zebstrika to beat Stunfisk and Probopass, though it is very situational and unreliable.
Zebstrika (SM competitive strategy): Zebstrika distinguishes itself from the other Electric-types of the tier like Electivire and Raichu thanks to its high Speed. This lets it naturally outspeed a lot of threats to offensive teams such as Floatzel, Purugly, and slow Choice Scarf users like Rampardos that non-Choice Scarf Electivire and Raichu fail to outspeed. Furthermore, Zebstrika has two great abilities in Lightning Rod and Sap Sipper that give it immunities to Electric- or Grass-type moves, which are common attacking types in ZU. However, although Zebstrika has excellent Speed, its Special Attack is lackluster, leaving it easily walled by tier staples such as Komala, Muk, and Lickilicky. Moreover, Zebstrika is extremely frail, making it easy for faster Pokemon such as Dugtrio and Choice Scarf Silvally to take it out. Volt Switch allows Zebstrika to rack up chip damage on foes such as Kecleon and Probopass and gain momentum against foes that wall it such as Lickilicky and Muk. Overheat destroys Grass-types such as Gourgeist-XL and Quilladin, which would otherwise be able to take Zebstrika's hits. Hidden Power Ice hits Ground-types which are immune to Electric such as Golem and Gabite and deals heavier damage to Dragon-types such as Silvally-Dragon and Altaria. Life Orb is the best item for Zebstrika, as it needs a boosting item in order to nab the OHKO on some Pokemon such as Gourgeist-XL and Mareanie, and appreciates the ability to switch moves in order to hit Grass- and Ground-types that try to switch into its STAB attacks. Lightning Rod grants Zebstrika an immunity to Electric-type moves, allowing it to block Volt Switch. Lightning Rod is preferred to Motor Drive because Zebstrika is already fast and enjoys getting boosts in Special Attack instead of Speed. Alternatively, Sap Sipper allows Zebstrika to switch into Grass-type attackes from Pokemon such as Servine and Simisage and into powder moves such as Spore from Shiinotic and Smeargle. It also makes Zebstrika a potent switch-in to Jumpluff. Zebstrika's impressive Speed tier allows it to revenge kill a lot of fast threats to offensive teams such as Floatzel and Purugly. Zebstrika should mainly use Volt Switch in order to maintain momentum and rack up chip damage against its checks such as Lickilicky, Kecleon, and Muk. Zebstrika can easily use Volt Switch against Pokemon that it forces out such as Mareanie, Swanna, and Toucannon. However, you must be wary of Pokemon immune to Electric such as Golem and Electivire and think twice before using one of Zebstrika's STAB moves if they can safely switch in. If you predict one of them to switch in, you should utilize one of Zebstrika's coverage moves or pull a double switch. Due to its poor bulk, Zebstrika shouldn't be switched in on any hits or against faster foes. Sap Sipper allows Zebstrika to check many Grass-types in the tier such as Quilladin, Servine, Bellossom, and Jumpluff. However, Zebstrika struggles to come in Leafeon due to its strong coverage moves. Zebstrika should instead come in on a double switch, after a teammate faints, through the help of VoltTurn users, or on a predicted Grass- or Electric-type move such as Leech Seed from Gourgeist or Volt Switch from Electivire depending on Zebstrika's ability. Zebstrika should only use Overheat if it needs to, as the Special Attack drop will leave it setup fodder for a lot of threatening setup sweepers such as Shell Smash Crustle and Swords Dance Combusken. Due to its offensive nature and lack of bulk, Zebstrika mainly fits on offensive teams. It pairs very well with other VoltTurn users such as the Silvally formes, Komala, and Toucannon that form a VoltTurn core with it to keep up momentum and rack up chip damage on foes. Zebstrika appreciates entry hazard support such as Stealth Rock from Golem, Spikes from Quilladin, and Toxic Spikes from Mareanie, as they weaken its checks and let Zebstrika break through the opposing team more easily. For the same reason, strong physical wallbreakers such as Choice Band Golem and Swords Dance Silvally that can weaken Zebstrika's checks such as Lickilicky and Muk are appreciated, as they allow Zebstrika to clean late-game. Pokemon that appreciate Zebstrika's immunities such as Golem and Swanna make for great partners, as they give it more opportunities to switch in by baiting Grass- and Electric-type attacks, respectively. However, Zebstrika isn't a guaranteed switch-in to Pokemon that carry these attacks because of its extreme frailty and weakness to common coverage moves such as Earthquake from Electivire, Knock Off from Leafeon, and Double-Edge from Sawsbuck and Leafeon. Zebstrika is also a potent option for teams that need a non-Choice Scarf revenge killer for fast Pokemon such as Floatzel and Purugly. It provides offensive teams with a Pokemon that is able to outspeed a wide portion of the metagame without being Choice-locked, and is therefore useful for offensive teams that don't want to have two Choice Scarf users. Zebstrika has a good base 100 Attack stat that it may want to use in a physical or mixed set. However, its physical movepool is lackluster and leaves it helpless against Grass-, Ground-, and Dragon-types, as it only has access to weak moves, the unusable Bounce, the niche Low Kick, and miscellaneous Normal-type coverage. Moreover, these sets face heavy competition from Electivire, which while being slower, hits far harder thanks to a higher base Attack and access to better coverage moves in Ice Punch and Earthquake. Zebstrika can hold Firium Z to get a strong Fire-type nuke without incurring Overheat's drawback. However, using it over Life Orb significantly weakens Zebstrika's firepower and is therefore not recommended. Zebstrika can wield Choice Specs to deal more significant damage, but loses its ability to switch moves for better longevity that it doesn't need. Being locked into an Electric-type move is detrimental, as it gives dangerous wallbreakers such as Nasty Plot Raichu opportunities to switch in and lets defensive Ground-types such as Golem and Sandslash set or remove entry hazards. Hidden Power Water is an option over Hidden Power Ice to hit Camerupt and Golem harder. However, Golem is already hit hard by Hidden Power Ice. Moreover, it leaves Zebstrika helpless against Dragon-types such as Gabite and Silvally-Dragon.
Zebstrika (SV competitive strategy): Zebstrika generally shouldn't be a Tera Captain, as there are usually better alternatives available, but it can perform decently with options like Tera Grass and Ice to threaten the Ground-types that usually wall it. It can also use its abilities alongside Tera to make better use of its immunities and check certain Pokemon defensively.
Celesteela (SM competitive strategy): Celesteela is a solid defensive Pokemon in the tier, with a fantastic typing, well-rounded stats, and a large movepool. Steel / Flying typing along with massive bulk allows Celesteela to check many threats in the tier such as Tapu Lele, Mega Diancie, Mega Alakazam, Mega Latios, Garchomp, Tapu Bulu, and Landorus-T. Even though Celesteela lacks reliable recovery, access to Leech Seed allows it to sustain itself against non-Grass-types. However, Celesteela's defenses fail against common threats like Tapu Koko, Mega Charizard Y, and Ash-Greninja. It struggles to make progress against defensive builds featuring Regenerator walls like Toxapex and Tangrowth, and Gliscor, whose Poison Heal lets it break even with Leech Seed's draining. Lastly, its predictability when using Leech Seed and Protect makes it fairly easy to outplay by switching around with different Pokemon. Leech Seed allows Celesteela to heal against non-Grass-types and annoy a lot of switch-ins that would be safe otherwise such as Heatran and Rotom-W. It's also the closest thing Celesteela has to reliable recovery. Protect allows Celesteela to scout Choice item users as well as potential Z-Move users while also letting it heal additional HP from Leftovers and Leech Seed. Heavy Slam is Celesteela's strongest STAB move and deals very solid damage to Pokemon that don't resist it. Flamethrower hits Steel-types that resist Heavy Slam such as Skarmory, Mega Scizor, and Magnezone and hits Grass-types immune to Leech Seed such as Tangrowth and Ferrothorn. 24 Defense EVs allow Celesteela to avoid the OHKO from Jolly Mega Medicham's High Jump Kick from full HP. The remaining EVs are placed into Special Defense to help Celesteela tackle specially offensive threats such as Mega Alakazam, Tapu Lele, and Mega Latios. A Sassy nature is used to bolster Celesteela's bulk without cutting into the power of Heavy Slam and Flamethrower. Optionally, Celesteela can opt to use a spread of 252 HP / 100 Def / 156 SpD with a Relaxed nature to better check physically offensive threats like Mega Scizor and Kartana while still being able to take two Hidden Power Fires from Choice Specs Tapu Lele after Stealth Rock and two rounds of Leftovers with the help of Protect. Celesteela should be sent out against Pokemon it can easily wall like Tapu Lele, Kartana, most variants of Protean Greninja, Landorus-T, and most Garchomp sets. Be wary of moves that can easily break down Celesteela or lure it such as Rockium Z Landorus-T. While Protect can be used to scout these, be careful your opponent doesn't take advantage of this by setting up further or preserving their Z-Move. Avoid letting Celesteela get too weak because a healthy Celesteela is one of the most annoying things to face in the entire tier. This includes avoiding Knock Off and using Leech Seed with Protect whenever necessary. Physically based Autotomize sets with Heavy Slam / Earthquake / Fire Blast as offensive moves can be used, but those are easier to shut down with Intimidate users such as Landorus-T. Celesteela can also opt to run Groundium Z on these sets to OHKO Toxapex after a boost, or Rockium Z with Stone Edge to lure Zapdos. Specially based Autotomize sets are also viable with Flyinium Z, but its inability to break Toxapex, Heatran, and Zapdos is very unfavorable. Earthquake can be used on Celesteela instead of Flamethrower, as an option to hit Heatran and deal more damage to Magnezone, but losing out on Kartana, Skarmory, Ferrothorn, and opposing Celesteela is a huge deal.
Celesteela (SS competitive strategy): Celesteela's typing and defensive stats are both fantastic in UU, allowing it to check a considerable portion of UU's top threats, including Salamence, Scizor, Diggersby, Hippowdon, Nihilego, and Excadrill. Thanks to its decent offensive stats, powerful STAB Heavy Slam, and access to Flamethrower to smack foes like Amoonguss and Zarude, Celesteela can prevent itself from being too passive. Leech Seed is also an excellent tool, sustaining Celesteela's longevity and allowing it to significantly wear down its switch-ins, such as Rotom-H and Thundurus-T, potentially forcing them out, while Toxic lures and cripples otherwise safe switch-ins like Rotom-W, Slowking, and Moltres. Celesteela can also operate with an Autotomize set, tapping into its strong special coverage and the sweeping potential Beast Boost lends it to clean through many unprepared teams. Despite its defensive potency, however, Celesteela suffers a bit from its lack of access to reliable recovery, which can prevent it from tanking strong neutral hits as consistently as it would like to and cause it to be overreliant on Leftovers. This can allow a few common Pokemon, such as Hydreigon and Mamoswine, to muscle past Celesteela after relatively minimal chip damage. Celesteela also struggles to bypass popular Fire- and Electric-types such as Moltres and Thundurus-T on its own, as well as various defensive picks like Tentacruel and Slowking; Tentacruel can utilize Liquid Ooze to take advantage of Leech Seed, while Slowking doesn't take meaningful damage from any of Celesteela's attacks, can absorb Leech Seed and Teleport out, and can threaten to chip Celesteela down with burns from Scald. Flamethrower keeps Steel-types like Scizor and Excadrill in line and forces them out. It also hits Grass-types such as Amoonguss and Zarude, which are immune to Leech Seed. Leech Seed is important to wear down common switch-ins, including Moltres, Rotom-W, and Thundurus-T. It also prevents Pokemon like Gyarados and Dragon Dance Salamence from reliably setting up on Celesteela, chipping them down. Toxic cripples switch-ins like Slowking, Rotom-W, and Assault Vest Tangrowth, allowing Celesteela to overcome them in the long-term. Meanwhile, Protect works well alongside Leech Seed, offering Celesteela a guaranteed opportunity to restore health with both Leftovers and Leech Seed. It can also help to scout moves from Choice-locked Pokemon, like Zygarde-10% and Keldeo. Celesteela is a solid fit on bulky offense and balance teams thanks to its ability to check several prominent threats like Scizor and Zarude, allowing offensive teammates to fall back on it upon losing momentum to foes like Salamence. Bulky Water-types often share strong synergy with Celesteela, checking the Fire-types that power through it, while Celesteela can handle Pokemon like Zarude and Tapu Bulu in return. Swampert and Slowking check both Rotom-H and Moltres, two of Celesteela's more effective answers, while also being helpful against Mamoswine. Slowking can also bring Celesteela in safely with Teleport against foes such as Tapu Bulu and Hydreigon. Nihilego is another good teammate, pivoting in on Pokemon like Moltres and Thundurus-T for Celesteela while appreciating its ability to deal with Ground-types such as Excadrill and Nidoking. Defensive Grass-types like Tangrowth and Amoonguss can also make solid teammates, as they can pivot into threats to Celesteela like Keldeo and Azumarill. They both can absorb Knock Off for Celesteela, and the former can use Knock Off itself to cripple switch-ins to Celesteela like Moltres. Zarude is another phenomonal partner capable of offensively pressuring Slowking better and revenge killing Thundurus-T. Entry hazard removal from the likes of Tentacruel keep Celesteela from being worn down by Stealth Rock. Autotomize allows Celesteela to outspeed the entire metagame barring Choice Scarf Hydreigon and more easily snowball, setting up on common threats like Hippowdon, Zarude, and Diggersby thanks to its typing. Air Slash lets Celesteela threaten foes like Keldeo, Hydreigon, and Tangrowth with ease. It can also flinch down defensive checks like Moltres and Slowking. Fire Blast provides important coverage against Steel-types like Scizor, Excadrill, and opposing Celesteela. Flamethrower is an option over Fire Blast for its greater accuracy. However, Celesteela wants all the power it can get due to this set's nature as a sweeper. Meteor Beam grants Celesteela an opportunity to bypass Fire-types like Rotom-H, Moltres, and Chandelure. It also deals massive damage to foes like Rotom-W, Thundurus-T, and Salamence, and the Special Attack boost it supplies is often extremely useful in boosting Celesteela's sweeping capabilities. Due to taking two turns, however, it must be used with Power Herb, and Celesteela must watch out for the opponent predicting the attack and bringing in a foe that resists it due to often being restricted to a one-time use. Beast Boost lets Celesteela boost its Special Attack upon netting KOs, giving it great sweeping potential. This set fits on offensive builds, acting as a late-game sweeper that cleans weakened teams. On hyper offense teams, leads like Excadrill and Scolipede can provide entry hazards to wear down checks like Rotom-W and Slowking. Powerful wallbreakers like Azumarill and Keldeo make strong teammates capable of removing foes such as Slowking and Chansey for Celesteela to sweep through late-game. Gyarados alongisde the aformentioned Water-types can pressure Rock- and Fire-types like Nihilego, Rhyperior, and Moltres for Celesteela. Secondary sweepers like Thundurus-T and Nihilego often fit well with offensive Celesteela, helping pressure and overwhelm the likes of Chansey and Slowking. Flash Cannon is an option over Air Slash for Celesteela's Meteor Beam set, dealing super effective damage to common answers like Nihilego. Meanwhile, Giga Drain lets it bypass Rotom-W and Slowking easier. However, these moves are much harder to fit compared to Air Slash's ability to flinch down slower checks like Moltres. Celesteela can utilize a mixed Assault Vest set to better answer Primarina and Salamence, with its colorful movepool letting it surprise typical checks such as Slowking with Megahorn and Moltres with Stone Edge and potentially break large holes in the opposing team. Due to its selection of potent physical moves such as Earthquake and Stone Edge, Celesteela can also run a physically based Autotomize set, effectively luring checks like Tentacruel and Rotom-H. However, this generally isn't as effective due to Celesteela's middling immediate power and hardships breaking various Pokemon, such as Tangrowth and Skarmory.
Celesteela (SV competitive strategy): Celesteela is a durable mixed wall that is capable of taking on several dangerous Pokemon, such as Mega Diancie, Landorus-T, and Tapu Lele. Heavy Slam is the preferred STAB move thanks to Celesteela's high weight, giving it a high Base Power much of the time. Flamethrower lets Celesteela pressure Steel- and Grass-types such as Ferrothorn, Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Corviknight. Leech Seed allows Celesteela to spread chip damage onto switch-ins like Heatran, Raging Bolt, and Zapdos while simultaneously keeping itself healthy; it also dissuades offensive Pokemon like Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Terapagos from attempting to slug it out with Celesteela one-on-one. Protect allows Celesteela to rack up Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery while also scouting moves from opponents like Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant. Leftovers is crucial to give Celesteela as much recovery as possible. 16 Defense EVs and a Relaxed Nature allow Celesteela to take two Mega Lopunny Close Combats from full health. The rest of the EVs are invested into Special Defense to check threats like Tapu Lele, Mega Diancie, and Mega Latios as well as possible. Celesteela fits best on balance and bulky offense teams that appreciate its walling capabilities but can compensate for its noticeable passivity against certain matchups. Bulky Poison-types have notable defensive utility with Celesteela: Pecharunt, Galarian Slowking, and Toxapex appreciate Celesteela taking on Tapu Lele, Mega Latios, and Gliscor for them. These teammates can take on Fighting-types such as Zamazenta and Mega Lopunny, which Celesteela does not appreciate taking multiple hits from. Dragon-types also have notable defensive synergy with Celesteela, as they can take on Fire-, Electric-, and Water-type attacks for it while Celesteela takes on dangerous Fairy-types. They especially appreciate Celesteela's status as one of the best Mega Diancie and Tapu Lele answers available. Dragonite, Raging Bolt, and Mega Latios make for good partners as a result, as they can check threats such as Mega Charizard Y, Heatran, and Ogerpon-W for Celesteela. A main flaw of Celesteela is its inability to dissuade certain very dangerous setup threats, most notably Gholdengo, Volcarona, and Raging Bolt, from freely boosting in its face. It is necessary to have solid checks to these boosted threats as a result. Ground-types like Ting-Lu and specially defensive Garchomp can help out against these threats even after they have had an opportunity to boost. Moltres is another good option to help out with these threats specifically, and it also gives Celesteela an additional Fire-resistant teammate. Celesteela also struggles to appreciably threaten Regenerator cores featuring Pokemon such as Toxapex, Galarian Slowking, and Slowbro, so a strong wallbreaker that can disrupt them, such as Ogerpon-W, Garchomp, or Raging Bolt is a good partner. A Knock Off absorber is very important, as Celesteela loses a significant amount of its longevity if it loses its Leftovers. A teammate such as Gliscor, Clefable, or Mega Venusaur is a valuable teammate as a result.
Hawlucha (XY competitive strategy): Hawlucha has a high base Speed and an excellent ability, Unburden. Thanks to Unburden, Hawlucha's Speed is doubled after its item is removed or consumed, giving it the ability to outpace every unboosted Pokemon in OU. Hawlucha has a great Fighting / Flying typing that grants it excellent coverage as well as a neutrality to Stealth Rock. Hawlucha has a subpar base Attack stat compared to other Pokemon used in OU, which hinders its ability to break through common defensive Pokemon without boosting its Attack. It doesn't take hits very well because of its poor defenses. This limits its role to that of a late-game cleaner that relies heavily on Unburden. Substitute protects Hawlucha from status moves, such as Thunder Wave, Toxic, and Will-O-Wisp and provides it with a way of safely lowering its HP to consume Sitrus Berry and activate Unburden. Because Hawlucha's Attack stat is mediocre compared to other Pokemon in OU, Swords Dance is used to boost its Attack, supplying Hawlucha with the power it needs to pick apart weakened teams late-game. High Jump Kick is the most powerful Fighting-type move that Hawlucha has access to; it is also easily spammable and gives Hawlucha a tool to decimate opposing teams. Acrobatics is another strong and easily spammable attack; after Hawlucha has lost or used its Sitrus Berry, Acrobatics's Base Power is boosted to 110. Flying-type attacks are resisted by very few Pokemon, so Acrobatics should be Hawlucha's most-used move unless the foe is a Rock-, Steel-, or Electric-type. The 12 HP EVs give Hawlucha an HP value that's divisible by 4, which allows its Sitrus Berry to be consumed after Hawlucha uses Substitute twice, thus activating its ability, Unburden. The remaining EVs are invested in Attack and Speed to maximize Hawlucha's offensive capability. A Jolly nature allows Hawlucha to outspeed a few threats, such as Latios, Latias, Raikou, Terrakion, Keldeo, and Speed tie with opposing Hawlucha before it receives a Speed boost from Unburden. Hawlucha should be used as a mid- or late-game cleaner, as it is most useful after its checks have been eliminated. Because of their Flying-type priority moves, Talonflame and Pinsir are two of its biggest checks and must be KOed before Hawlucha begins to setup. A few defensive Pokemon such as Slowbro, Garchomp, Zapdos, Clefable, and Mew should be weakened or KOed before setting up Swords Dance because Hawlucha has trouble breaking through them. Always switch Hawlucha in on a Pokemon it can force out, such as Chansey; use the free turn to set a Substitute up. After that, use Swords Dance as the switch-in breaks Hawlucha's Substitute. At this point, nothing should be able to outspeed Hawlucha so it should be able to set up another Substitute. Because its HP will drop below 50%, Hawlucha will consume its Sitrus Berry and activate Unburden. With +2 Attack and +2 Speed, Hawlucha is free to pick off the remaining Pokemon. Hawlucha can also be used at certain points mid- and early-game thanks to its high Speed letting it outrun Pokemon like Keldeo and Raikou, allowing it to revenge kill them. A teammate that can check Talonflame and Pinsir is a necessity, as they both can easily KO Hawlucha with their priority Flying-type moves. Rotom-W, Zapdos, and Landorus-T are a few examples of Pokemon that excel at checking Talonflame and Pinsir. A teammate that can easily pressure offensive and defensive teams complements Hawlucha well. Gengar is a great example this because of its versatility and power. Gengar can effortlessly eliminate defensive threats, such as Clefable, Doublade, and Slowbro. Gengar can also get rid of offensive threats such as Choice Scarf Landorus-T, making it significantly easier on Hawlucha to sweep late-game. A teammate that can provide entry hazard support is also vital because entry hazards can wear down the opposing team, making it easier for Hawlucha to perform a late-game sweep. Stealth Rock is the most important entry hazard because it does a great job of limiting the amount of times Flying-type Pokemon can switch in. This is great to deal with Talonflame and Pinsir, as well as defensive checks such as Zapdos. A teammate that does a great job of breaking down defensive Pokemon is extremely useful, as Hawlucha doesn't have the raw power to break through some defensive Pokemon. Mega Gardevoir fits this role perfectly, as it lures Pokemon such as Heatran and Chansey, two walls that Hawlucha has no problem setting up on or KOing. Mega Gardevoir can also KO Pokemon that Hawlucha has trouble dealing with, such as Zapdos, Mew, Clefable, and Slowbro. Adding a teammate that can check Electric-types such as Thundurus, Mega Manectric, and Raikou, would make it easier for Hawlucha to perform late-game sweeps; examples include Mega Latias, Choice Scarf Landorus-T, Tyranitar, and Excadrill. Stone Edge can be used to surprise a few Flying-type Pokemon that hope to switch in on High Jump Kick, such as Mega Pinsir, Talonflame, and Zapdos. Keep in mind that it won't have much use against Ground / Flying types such as Landorus-T and Gliscor, however. It's also not worth giving up Substitute's protection from attacks and pseudo-immunity to status. Taunt could also work over Substitute but, unlike Substitute, it fails to protect Hawlucha from attacks. Bulk Up is an alternative method of setting up, but lacks the instant power Swords Dance can provide and Hawlucha is very frail regardless so Defense boosts will not benefit it that well.
Hawlucha (SM competitive strategy): Hawlucha is one of the tier's deadliest sweepers thanks to its solid offensive STAB combination, high Speed, Swords Dance, and an incredible ability in Unburden. With the combination of a terrain seed and the Unburden ability, Hawlucha outspeeds many faster foes, ranging from Mega Alakazam, +2 Shift Gear Magearna, and Mega Swampert under the rain to Choice Scarf users like Kartana and Greninja. Hawlucha often finds setup opportunities against common Pokemon that it forces out, such as Ferrothorn, Heatran, defensive and Choice Scarf variants of Landorus-T, and Choice Scarf Kartana. Hawlucha also has the benefit of being a setup sweeper that isn't revenge killed by Ditto, as Ditto cannot copy the Speed boost from Unburden. However, Hawlucha is burdened with a below-average Attack stat, as it cannot OHKO targets like Tapu Lele, Mega Latias, and Tornadus-T before a Swords Dance boost, and it is unable to OHKO defensive staples like Slowbro, Toxapex, Tapu Fini, and Clefable after a boost. Hawlucha also struggles against Electric-types that resist both of its STAB options, like Zapdos and Tapu Koko. While Unburden is one of Hawlucha's greatest strengths, it is also one of its greatest weaknesses; once Hawlucha activates Unburden, it only has one shot at a sweep, and it is highly susceptible to being phazed by moves like Whirlwind from Skarmory. Lastly, Hawlucha is prone to being picked off by priority moves like Ice Shard from Weavile, Water Shuriken from Ash-Greninja, Quick Attack from Mega Pinsir, and Fake Out + Quick Attack from Mega Lopunny, especially if Hawlucha does not carry Roost. Swords Dance turns Hawlucha into a dangerous late-game cleaner and is useful for forcing its way past defensive teams. Acrobatics and High Jump Kick complement each other beautifully; after a boost, Acrobatics threatens a wide range of neutral targets like Landorus-T, Gliscor, Toxapex, and Clefable, while High Jump Kick does the same against Flying-resistant targets like Magearna, Mega Mawile, and Rotom-Wash. Substitute eases prediction and protects Hawlucha from attempted status ailments like Toxic and Scald burns from Toxapex and Thunder Wave from Ferrothorn. Finally, Roost keeps Hawlucha healthy throughout the game, letting it defensively check the likes of Choice Scarf Kartana and non-Flyinium Z Landorus-T and continue threatening these Pokemon. The given Speed EVs allow Hawlucha to outrun Jolly Sand Rush Excadrill, while the given HP and Special Defense investment let Hawlucha survive uninvested Clefable's Moonblast; if Hawlucha runs Psychic Seed, it can instead move the EVs from Special Defense to HP or Speed. The given terrain seeds should be used if Hawlucha is paired with the designated teammate, like Electric Seed for Tapu Koko and Psychic Seed for Tapu Lele. The Defense boost from Electric Seed is helpful for stomaching physical attacks like Landorus-T's Explosion, while the Special Defense boost from Psychic Seed allows Hawlucha to take special attacks like Ash-Greninja's Water Shuriken more easily. As for alternative EV spreads, Hawlucha can customize it to its team's desires; for example, it can drop its Speed EVs to 44 to outspeed Choice Scarf Greninja after activating Unburden, allowing it to invest more EVs in bulk. Substitute variants with Electric Seed have the option to run 128 HP and 60 Special Defense EVs so that Toxapex's Scald doesn't break the Substitute. Hawlucha is best utilized as a late-game cleaner and benefits from the removal of threats like Zapdos and Tapu Koko, especially if Hawlucha is not running Stone Edge for Zapdos. Because Hawlucha has only one shot at a sweep, it is best to preserve its terrain seed until it is time to go all in, as Hawlucha cannot afford being phazed due to its lack of Speed before the Unburden boost to outpace fast offensive Pokemon. The Defense boost from Electric Seed lets Hawlucha find setup opportunities against physical attackers like Tapu Bulu and Choice-locked Pokemon like Kartana and Landorus-T, while the Special Defense boost from Psychic Seed lets it do the same against Choice-locked Ash-Greninja and more easily beat Tapu Fini and Clefable. Hawlucha variants that run Substitute or Roost can also set up against passive Pokemon like Toxapex and defensive variants of Landorus-T; Hawlucha variants running Substitute can even use the move to punish the opponent attempting to sacrifice a weakened Pokemon and protect it from priority moves from Mega Lopunny, Mega Medicham, and Ash-Greninja, making it easier to secure a sweep. Since Landorus-T sometimes runs Flyinium Z to take Hawlucha out, it is a good idea to use Substitute to scout for variants that have this set. It is also important to keep in mind that Ferrothorn and Heatran sometimes run Protect to potentially bait Hawlucha into taking crash damage from High Jump Kick. Therefore, it is a good idea to scout for Protect against these Pokemon so that it can time the use of High Jump Kick correctly, and Hawlucha can play mind games back by nabbing an extra Swords Dance boost, setting up Substitute, or using Roost to stay healthy. Hawlucha is a solid fit on hyper offense teams, which can give it the support it needs to clean up late-game. Tapu Koko is a mandatory partner, as not only does it activate Electric Seed, but it can also bring Hawlucha in safely via Volt Switch or U-turn, allowing Hawlucha much easier opportunities to set up. In return, Hawlucha switches into Ground-type attacks aimed at Tapu Koko. Both Protean and Ash-Greninja are solid partners for Hawlucha, as they provide Spikes support, putting pressure on shared checks like Tapu Fini. Additionally, Protean Greninja baits in and annihilates bulky Fairy-types like Clefable with Gunk Shot and Magearna with Tectonic Rage, while Ash-Greninja pressures bulky Psychic-types like Slowbro and Cresselia. Hawlucha also benefits from strong wallbreakers like Kyurem-B and Mega Mawile smashing through defensive targets like Toxapex, Magearna, Celesteela, and Skarmory to open the path for Hawlucha to clean up. Magearna forms a strong partnership with Hawlucha, covering Fairy-types like Clefable and Tapu Lele; pivot variants provide a free entry with Volt Switch, while Calm Mind variants break down opposing teams for Hawlucha to clean up later in the game. Hawlucha forms a strong core with a Dragon Dance sweeper like Mega Tyranitar or Mega Gyarados, both of which benefit from Hawlucha taking care of Grass-types like Tapu Bulu, Ferrothorn, and Choice Scarf Kartana. Hawlucha especially appreciates Mega Tyranitar dispatching Zapdos, which gives Hawlucha major trouble. Volcarona benefits from Hawlucha handling Mega Tyranitar and Chansey, and in return, Volcarona takes on bulky Psychic- and Fairy-types like Slowbro, Cresselia, and Clefable. Tapu Lele is required for Hawlucha variants that carry Psychic Seed; it and Mega Alakazam both serve as strong early-game wallbreakers to put shared answers like Cresselia and Magearna out of commission, as well as bust past Zapdos, directly enabling Hawlucha to finish the game. Despite adding up on the Fairy weakness, Mega Medicham and Kommo-o are solid partners, as they can pressure and weaken shared Fairy-type checks like Clefable and Tapu Fini. Stone Edge is useful for breaking past Zapdos, which otherwise poses a huge problem for Hawlucha. Taunt is an option for Hawlucha to prevent Toxapex from removing its boosts with Haze and stop Skarmory from attempting to phaze it with Whirlwind. However, this does make Hawlucha vulnerable to being burned by Toxapex's Scald. Encore disrupts Protect users like Celesteela and thwarts recovery attempts from Cresselia, turning them into setup fodder and forcing them to switch out. Drain Punch provides Hawlucha with a more accurate Fighting-type STAB move, allows it to keep itself healthy, and takes away the burden of playing mind games against Protect variants of Ferrothorn and Heatran. However, it is much less powerful than High Jump Kick, making it easier for a healthy Magearna to slug Hawlucha out. Poison Jab provides a way for Hawlucha to bait in and eliminate Tapu Koko, but it serves no other purpose besides that.
Hawlucha (SS competitive strategy): Hawlucha stands as a good late-game cleaner on hyper offense or dual screens teams thanks to the combination of Swords Dance, Unburden, and its powerful STAB combination. When Unburden is activated, Hawlucha turns into a fearsome cleaner because of its unparalleled Speed tier, which allows it to outpace all Pokemon in the metagame and makes it hard to revenge kill without priority. However, Hawlucha is frail, even with the Defense boost provided by its Terrain Seed, so it can only set up on Pokemon that it can force out or take a hit from, like Kartana. It also has problems with breaking through some common walls like Toxapex, Slowbro, and Skarmory, even after a Swords Dance boost, and it can get heavily crippled by status or chip damage. Lastly, Hawlucha heavily relies on its teammates and their survival to accomplish its role, meaning it will be dead weight until late-game. Swords Dance turns Hawlucha into a fearsome cleaner when combined with the Speed boost provided by Unburden. Stone Edge allows it to break through Zapdos and Tornadus-T, which otherwise could wall it; however, Taunt allows it to defeat certain walls, like Toxapex, Quagsire, and Hippowdon, by disabling their recovery moves at the cost of losing against the aforementioned Flying-types. Hawlucha's item is interchangeable depending on its teammates; on hyper offense teams, Hawlucha should run Grassy Seed, while on dual screens teams Electric Seed should be the choice. The Defense boost also allows it to set up more freely against threats like Kartana and Garchomp. The given EV spread allows Hawlucha to outspeed Excadrill in sand after Unburden activates, as well as revenge killing threats like +1 Volcarona if needed. The rest of the EVs are put into Special Defense to increase chances to survive Clefable's Moonblast after Stealth Rock. Hawlucha should always be used in tandem with Tapu Koko or Rillaboom, as their abilities activate its item and therefore Unburden. Rillaboom provides a strong wallbreaker that shares checks with Hawlucha, like Tornadus-T and Zapdos, so they can overwhelm them together. However, Tapu Koko acts as an offensive pivot that can set up screens and deal with walls like Toxapex and Slowbro, as well as bringing in Hawlucha against would-be setup fodders like Ferrothorn with U-turn. As Hawlucha only has one opportunity to clean, it appreciates having all of its checks removed or chipped into KO range; this makes Knock Off support from Kartana and Weavile very valuable, as they can remove items like Heavy-Duty Boots and Leftovers from its checks like Toxapex and Zapdos. Both Kartana and Weavile also share checks with Hawlucha; this allows them to wear them down together and let one clean late-game. They can also pressure some of Hawlucha's checks, like Slowbro and Hippowdon, with their STAB moves. Finally, Dragapult and Hawlucha can form an offensive core that can be hard to manage. Dragapult pressures key targets like Zapdos or Toxapex and forces damage on them with its powerful STAB moves; it can also offer setup opportunities with U-turn, as it gets forced out by Pokemon that Hawlucha wants to use as setup fodder, like Blissey and Tyranitar. Substitute is a possible option over Stone Edge or Taunt to avoid status effects like burn and poison from walls like Toxapex and Hippowdon; this also allows Hawlucha to tank some weak attacks and gives it more setup opportunities. However, Hawlucha hates losing these moves, as it has a bigger pool of checks and counters without them, like Zapdos and Skarmory.
Hawlucha (SV competitive strategy): Hawlucha acts as a threatening sweeper and late-game cleaner on Terrain teams. Thanks to Grassy Seed activating Unburden, Hawlucha becomes faster than the majority of the metagame, outpacing Choice Scarf and Booster Energy users like Darkrai and Iron Valiant and providing plenty of coverage with its Fighting / Flying STAB combination. Its serviceable bulk, along with a boost to its Defense due to Grassy Seed, allows Hawlucha to use Swords Dance in front of many common foes, such as Kingambit and Great Tusk. Encore can force switches and thwart recovery attempts by locking the foe into a resisted attack or a recovery move. Alternatively, Substitute can also give Hawlucha the breathing room it might need to set up against incoming status moves from Gliscor and deny Sucker Punch and Thunderclap from Kingambit and Raging Bolt, respectively. Psychic Seed is an alternative to enable Hawlucha on Psychic Terrain teams, granting it a valuable Special Defense boost that can help it set up in the face of special attackers like Iron Valiant. 124 EVs in Speed are enough to outspeed Sand Rush Excadrill after Unburden activates, and the bulk investment allows it to survive a Make It Rain from Gholdengo from full HP. Tera Flying is a great way to enhance Acrobatics's damage output; after a Swords Dance, Hawlucha can OHKO Zamazenta through Dauntless Shield with Tera Flying. Alternatively, Tera Electric can be used to withstand Zapdos, Raging Bolt, and Gholdengo, disallowing paralysis attempts and resisting their main attacks. Compared to Tera Electric, Tera Ground is an even better option to prevent Raging Bolt's revenge killing attempts at the cost of being vulnerable to Rillaboom's Grassy Glide and Weavile's Ice Shard. Whenever Hawlucha opts to run Grassy Seed, Rillaboom is always nearby. Rillaboom's terrain-setting ability and slow U-turn is pivotal in unleashing Hawlucha's onslaught. It can additionally spread Knock Off to rid Skarmory and Corviknight of their Rocky Helmet, for instance. Strong partners on Grassy Terrain teams include Pokemon such as Iron Moth and Heatran that can help to pressure some of Hawlucha's checks prior to its sweep such as the aforementioned Skarmory and Corviknight. Entry hazard support in the form of Glimmora, Hisuian Samurott, or Ting-Lu is also much appreciated. Hawlucha faces two big roadblocks in Gholdengo and Raging Bolt. Gholdengo in particular can easily shrug off Acrobatics and Close Combat, and it can take out Hawlucha while keeping itself healthy with Recover. Kingambit or the aforementioned Heatran have positive matchups against Gholdengo, while Pokemon like Hatterene can force Gholdengo in and weaken it while also providing a faster-paced Terrain team with entry hazard control. Raging Bolt, on the other hand, threatens non-Tera Electric Hawlucha with Thunderbolt and Thunderclap. It is therefore important to pair it with partners that can neutralize Raging Bolt such as Iron Valiant and Primarina. While the archetype is more niche, Indeedee is used instead of Rillaboom on Psychic Terrain teams. Rain teams can also handle Hawlucha, as Barraskewda still outspeeds it in the rain. Raging Bolt is a great check to rain teams that synergizes well with Grassy Terrain and can deal with rain's threats prior to Hawlucha cleaning up late-game.
Sawsbuck (BW competitive strategy): revenge kill Steel-types, such as Metang, Probopass, and Bastiodon, who cleaner on sun teams. Choice Band can be used to give an even bigger power boost than Life Orb; however, this denies Sawsbuck the ability to switch moves and boost Attack via Swords Dance, making it an inferior option. Jump Kick provides similar coverage to Nature Power, but is inferior due to its inability to provide super effective coverage against Metang and Poison-types and cannot bypass Sucker Punch. Retaliate can be used on the Choice Scarf set, as it is more of a hit-and-run type of Pokemon; however, Double-Edge is usually strong enough and is a far more reliable option should you decide to stay in. A set with Substitute and Leech Seed is interesting, and Sawsbuck separates itself from other SubSeeders with its higher other sets don't. Sawsbuck is also unable to break through the common Grass-types of the tier who are immune to Leech Seed. Aromatherapy provides protection against status, but Sawsbuck is too frail to effectively utilize it and Substitute is generally a better option. Finally, Sawsbuck has access to two forms of status, namely Thunder Wave and Grass Whistle. However, it is too frail to make use of the former, particularly Drifblim, Misdreavus, and Haunter. Drifblim is the best
Sawsbuck (XY competitive strategy): Sawsbuck is an excellent setup sweeper with Swords Dance, owing to its good Speed, power, and typing. Double-Edge is preferred over Return, always 2HKOing Servine and OHKOing Simisage. Return can be used instead if Sawsbuck does not wish to suffer recoil, but it misses these benchmarks. Horn Leech targets Normal-resistant and immune Pokemon like Gigalith, Carbink, and Dusclops. Jump Kick is its preferred coverage move, hitting Steel-types like Klang and Lairon harder than any of its other moves do. Sap Sipper allows Sawsbuck to pivot into Grass-type attacks freely while also enhancing its wallbreaking prowess. If used on sun teams, an Adamant nature and Chlorophyll are necessary for it to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame under sun while hitting as hard as possible. Sawsbuck does excellently on balance and offensive teams, where it can leverage its good Speed and offensive prowess to punch holes early-game as a wallbreaker or clean up late-game. It struggles the most against Bronzor and physically bulky Poison-types like Swalot and Ivysaur; checks to these threats like Magmar and Krokorok help it break through these checks more easily. Defensive backbones strong against these threats, like the aforementioned Poison-types and Duosion, can preserve Sawsbuck's health. Late-game sweepers like Simipour and Calm Mind Swoobat can help clean up the opposition and take advantage of Sawsbuck's wallbreaking. Wallbreakers like Magmar and Vanilluxe make Sawsbuck harder to stop late-game. Sawsbuck makes for a notable cleaner and revenge killer, getting the jump on the entire unboosted metagame and able to check fast threats like Simipour, Simisage, and Persian well. Without a damage-boosting item, Double-Edge's strength is necessary over Return's lack of recoil—the extra power allows Sawsbuck to always 2HKO Pignite without needing Stealth Rock and have a good chance of OHKOing Simisage with Stealth Rock. Jump Kick is its strongest coverage against Steel-types like Lairon and Klang. Megahorn 2HKOes Grass-types like Gogoat and Servine and is its strongest coverage move against Bronzor. Toxic puts walls like Gourgeist formes and Dusclops on a timer. As this set emphasizes Sawsbuck's Speed to let it revenge kill, it tends to struggle more against checks like the aforementioned Bronzor and bulky Poison-types. Wallbreakers like Pignite and Choice Band Lairon can threaten the opposition, making Sawsbuck's attacks even harder to switch into. Walls like Swalot and Gigalith can provide a cushion for physical attacks to give Sawsbuck opportunities to perform later into the game. Pivots like Electabuzz and Dustox can help get Sawsbuck onto the field more safely, and special attackers like Frogadier and Magmar can threaten bulky checks that it often has trouble getting past. Synthesis could be used for additional longevity when wallbreaking, though Sawsbuck can't give up any of its coverage, and Simisage does this better due to its higher Speed and greater diversity in coverage. Choice Band amplifies Sawsbuck's offensive power, though its only good Speed and prediction-reliant nature make its standard sets preferable. Silk Scarf empowers Sawsbuck's Normal-type attacks without any recoil at the expense of its coverage and Grass-type attacks.
Sawsbuck (SM competitive strategy): Because of its exceptional base Speed, Sawsbuck can become a potent Choice Scarf user, outspeeding Choice Scarf Mr. Mime. Sawsbuck is able to set itself apart from other Choice Scarf users in the tier thanks to its access to Serene Grace and Headbutt and carves out a niche for itself as a sweeper thanks to its excellent offensive typing. With access to Sap Sipper and Normal-type STAB moves, Sawsbuck can threaten opposing Grass-types such as Leafeon and Servine. In addition, Sawsbuck has access to a good offensive movepool and becomes a force to be reckoned with after a Swords Dance. Unfortunately, Sawsbuck suffers from competition from other offensive Grass-types such as Leafeon and Jumpluff. Because of its lackluster defensive stats and multitude of weaknesses, Sawsbuck is easily revenge killed by priority users such as Kecleon, Pawniard, and Monferno. Furthermore, Sawsbuck is easily walled by Pokemon like Bronzor and Gourgeist-XL. Horn Leech provides Sawsbuck with a semi-reliable form of recovery and allows it to revenge kill Pokemon such as Floatzel, Golem, and weakened Silvally-Water reliably. Jump Kick hits Steel-types such as Pawniard and Probopass super effectively. Headbutt utilizes Sawsbuck's ability Serene Grace to cause opposing Pokemon to flinch 60% of the time. Alternatively, Toxic allows Sawsbuck to cripple Pokemon that may try to come in and wall it such as Gourgeist-XL, Silvally-Fighting, and Silvally-Dragon. Choice Scarf allows Sawsbuck to outspeed and revenge kill threats as needed. Serene Grace allows Sawsbuck to double Headbutt's flinch rate. Alternatively, Sawsbuck can run Sap Sipper in order to grant it a Grass-type immunity and an Attack boost each time it is hit by a Grass-type move. Sawsbuck should primarily be used as a revenge killer against common threats such as Zebstrika, Komala, and Floatzel. Horn Leech is most often the preferred move to use in order to maintain Sawsbuck's health. Headbutt should be used over Double-Edge when revenge killing weakened Pokemon or Pokemon it shouldn't be able break without flinches, but Headbutt is not exactly reliable. Toxic should be used against predicted common switch-ins such as Gourgeist-XL, Gabite, and Silvally formes. Sawsbuck should be wary of trying to revenge kill Pokemon that carry priority such as Kecleon and Pawniard. Sawsbuck fits best on offensive and balanced teams lacking a designated revenge killer or speed control. Because Sawsbuck can force a good number of switches, entry hazard setters such as Golem, Bronzor, and Mareanie all make for good partners. Sawsbuck appreciates wallbreakers that make it easier to clean late-game such as Combusken and Floatzel. Offensive pivots such as Electivire, Zebstrika, and Silvally formes can gain momentum for Sawsbuck, allowing it to come in more often. Pokemon such as Swords Dance Silvally formes, Combusken, and Toucannon all appreciate Sawsbuck's ability to revenge kill faster threats. Double-Edge is Sawsbuck's strongest Normal-type STAB move that breaks through Pokemon that resist Horn Leech such as Muk, Oricorio-F, and Combusken. Jump Kick is able to hit Steel-types such as Probopass and Pawniard that would wall Sawsbuck otherwise. Swords Dance boosts Sawsbuck's Attack to high levels, making it an effective physical sweeper. Normalium Z allows Sawsbuck to bust through physically defensive walls such as Altaria, Granbull, and Gabite. Sap Sipper grants Sawsbuck a Grass-type immunity and an Attack boost every time it's hit with a Grass-type attack. Sawsbuck's main role is to act as a late-game sweeper, so it is best to preserve it until it has a clear opening or its checks and counters are weakened. Due to Sawsbuck's lackluster defenses, it should be brought in via slow U-turn or Volt Switch users such as Komala, Rotom-S, Probopass, and slow Silvally formes. Saving Sawsbuck's Z-Move is important for situations where Double-Edge recoil is not an option. It's important that Sawsbuck remains healthy throughout the game so it can clean later. If Sawsbuck is no longer in a the position to sweep, it should be mainly focused on wallbreaking. Sawsbuck should primarily be setting up on passive Pokemon or Pokemon it is able to force out such as defensive Golem and Silvally-Water. Sawsbuck is an exceptional breaker given the right matchup. Sawsbuck greatly appreciates entry hazard support in order to weaken some of its checks and counters, so Pokemon that can set hazards such as Golem and Mareanie make for great partners. Sawsbuck is heavily threatened by Fighting-types such as Machoke, Silvally-Fighting, and Monferno. Pokemon that are able to check these Fighting-types such as Bronzor, Swanna, and Rotom-S all make for great partners. Wallbreakers such as Combusken can weaken some of the Pokemon that wall Sawsbuck such as Gourgeist-XL and Mawile. Pokemon that can bait Grass-type moves for Sawsbuck to absorb such as Golem, Silvally-Water, and Floatzel all make for great partners. Sawsbuck tends to struggle with faster threats such as Electivire, Rapidash, and Swanna, so Pokemon that can check these faster threats such as Choice Scarf Electivire, Choice Scarf Floatzel, and Choice Scarf Zebstrika can help Sawsbuck. Pokemon with the ability Magnet Pull such as Probopass and Alolan Golem are able to trap Steel-types that Sawsbuck has trouble with such as Mawile and Bronzor. Probopass in particular makes for a good partner because of its access to a slow Volt Switch, allowing Sawsbuck to come in safely. In addition, both of these Pokemon appreciate Sawsbuck's ability to break down and threaten Golem. Bounce can be run in conjunction with Flyinium Z in order to break Gourgeist-XL, which Sawsbuck is otherwise walled by. Furthermore, Gourgeist-XL has access to the ability Frisk, making Flyinium Z ineffective as a way to beat it. Sawsbuck can run Substitute at the cost of a coverage move to protect it from being afflicted by status. Return is an option over Double-Edge, as it helps maintain Sawsbuck's longevity through late-game. However, the extra power Double-Edge provides is needed to reliably revenge kill Pokemon such as Zebstrika. Sawsbuck has the option of running Megahorn in order to hit other Grass-types, but this does not add much to Sawsbuck's coverage. Leech Seed can be run in conjunction with Substitute and Leftovers in order to form a SubSeed set. However, this set becomes much more reliant on Headbutt flinches to be effective. A set utilizing Chlorophyll and Swords Dance can be used when on a sun team to become a potent sweeper.
Samurott (XY competitive strategy): Gifted with great mixed attacking stats and a boosting move in Swords Dance, Samurott is a versatile threat capable of being either a powerful wallbreaker with nuclear Hydro Pumps or one of the best sweepers in the metagame. Samurott also boasts a solid typing, defensively and offensively, backed by acceptable defenses for an offensive Pokemon, letting it check Fire-, Ground-, and Rock-types such as Pyroar, Rhydon, and Archeops. STAB priority in Aqua Jet is the cherry on top, allowing Samurott to clean weakened teams after a Swords Dance boost and revenge kill faster Pokemon throughout the game. Unfortunately, Samurott is relatively slow, leaving it outsped by most offensive Pokemon and, accordingly, overreliant on Aqua Jet and vulnerable to getting revenge killed. Moreover, Samurott is checked by common Grass- and Water-types such as Vileplume, Ludicolo, Lanturn, and Poliwrath, in addition to physically bulky Pokemon such as Weezing and Garbodor if running the physical set and specially bulky Pokemon such as Hariyama and Mega Audino if running the special set. Swords Dance enables Samurott to sweep, boosting its Attack stat to high levels. Aqua Jet makes up for Samurott's middling Speed and KOes many faster weakened threats at +2, and it can also be used throughout the game to revenge kill foes. Waterfall is a more powerful STAB move that breaks through slower, bulkier foes after a boost. Megahorn gives Samurott super effective coverage against Grass-types such as Torterra, Ludicolo, and Lilligant, and hits opposing Water-types neutrally. Knock Off is an option to hit the Gourgeist formes super effectively in addition to hitting Mantine and Pelipper neutrally, giving Samurott a better matchup against stall teams but leaving it with significantly less powerful coverage against other, generally more common Grass- and Water-types. Samurott packs a simple offensive EV spread, making Samurott as fast and strong as possible, with an Adamant nature giving it a much-appreciated boost in power. A Jolly nature is an option to outspeed neutral-natured Ludicolo and opposing Samurott, in addition to the various Pokemon that creep the base 70 Speed benchmark. 112 HP / 252 Atk / 144 Spe can be used for more bulk, with enough Speed to outrun fully invested Adamant Torterra as well as neutral-natured base 55 Speed Pokemon, such as Cacturne, Exeggutor, and Golurk. Lum Berry allows Samurott to set up without having to fear status ailments from the likes of Weezing and Scald users such as Prinplup. Wave Incense boosts the power of Samurott's Water-type STAB moves without recoil. Life Orb is useful for a stronger Megahorn, but the recoil severely hinders Samurott's longevity. Rindo Berry lets Samurott avoid being revenge killed by Lilligant and Ludicolo, which are oftentimes an offensive team's only response to a +2 Samurott. An EV spread of 252 Atk / 100 SpD / 156 Spe with an Adamant nature should be used, as it Samurott can avoid being revenge killed by Electric-types, such as Rotom and Lanturn, by holding a Wacan Berry; however, this is somewhat less useful than Rindo Berry, as Samurott can KO weakened, faster Electric-types with Aqua Jet. Torrent makes it significantly easier for Samurott to sweep late-game thanks to the boost it gives to Samurott's Water-type STAB moves, as Samurott will often find itself below 33% health after it sets up. Samurott should typically be saved for late-game, only being used before then to revenge kill faster Pokemon such as Archeops, check Pokemon such as Rhydon, and possibly dish out a Megahorn or two to weaken checks such as Lanturn and Prinplup. However, Samurott is mostly useless if one of its counters, such Vileplume, the Gourgeist formes, or Poliwrath, is on the opposing team, so it should double switch to a teammate that threatens them to at least force them to take entry hazard damage. If necessary, Samurott can act as a check to the likes of Archeops and Pyroar, but it can only switch into them one time and is often left at such low HP that it probably won't be able to set up and sweep late-game; on the flip side, it can then use its Torrent-boosted STAB moves to wallbreak. Late-game, Samurott can set up a Swords Dance against a foe that can't do too much to it, such as Pyroar locked into a Fire-type move or even the likes of Hariyama and Archeops if Samurott is at high HP, often leaving it in Torrent range, and then it can proceed to sweep. Checks to Grass-types are important partners, with Fire-, Ice-, and Flying-types such as Pyroar, Aurorus, and Scyther covering them well; Garbodor is also a notable partner, as it not only walls Grass-types but can also set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes to get them into +2 Megahorn KO range. Grass- and Electric-types and Freeze-Dry users such as Torterra, Rotom, and Vanilluxe take care of the bulky Water-types that check Samurott. Ground- and Grass-types, such as Rhydon and Lilligant, are also nice partners for their ability to handle Electric-types. Fast Pokemon such as Archeops, Zebstrika, and Tauros cover Samurott's low Speed stat and improve its team's matchup against more offensive teams. Wallbreakers such as mixed Archeops, Aurorus, Mawile, and Beheeyem can weaken or even outright beat most walls standing in the way of Samurott's sweep with relative ease. Healing Wish support from the likes of Mesprit and Musharna is helpful to potentially give Samurott a second chance at sweeping and is especially useful when Samurott is using Wave Incense, as it compensates for the loss of status protection given by Lum Berry. Hydro Pump is Samurott's strongest viable Water-type STAB move and plows through anything that doesn't resist it. Ice Beam nails the Grass-types that resist Hydro Pump, such as Vileplume, Tangela, and the Gourgeist formes. Aqua Jet hits faster Pokemon such as Archeops and Pyroar, letting Samurott act as a decent check to them. Grass Knot targets Gastrodon, Poliwrath, and opposing Samurott, which wall this set otherwise. Megahorn is an alternative that hits Lanturn on its lower Defense stat, OHKOes Ludicolo and Jynx, and hits most Water-types neutrally. Taunt prevents Pokemon such as Audino and Ferroseed from recovering health or using utility moves, allowing Samurott to beat them one-on-one. Knock Off hits most of Megahorn's targets neutrally, in addition to Mantine, and is able to remove Prinplup's Eviolite and Hariyama's Assault Vest; however, it's weaker than Megahorn, especially if the foe's item has already been removed, and doesn't hit Ludicolo and Cradily super effectively. Samurott packs a simple offensive spread, making it as fast and strong as possible, with a Rash or Mild nature giving Samurott an extra boost in power in its special moves while not weakening its physical ones. Rash lets Samurott check physical attackers such as Rhydon and Archeops better, while Mild lets it handle special Fire-types better. Alternatively, a Naive or Hasty nature allows Samurott to outspeed Modest Ludicolo and opposing Samurott. Life Orb makes Samurott an extremely powerful wallbreaker by boosting all of Samurott's moves. Torrent makes Hydro Pump ridiculously powerful when under 33% HP. Samurott can come in on Rock- and Ground-types, preferably while they set up Stealth Rock, and slower, specially frail Pokemon such as Weezing and launch a powerful Hydro Pump. Even if the opponent has Grass-types such as Vileplume, Tangela, and the Gourgeist formes, Samurott doesn't have to predict with Ice Beam, as the combination of Hydro Pump and Ice Beam easily KOes them. However, it's best to nail Lanturn and, to a lesser extent, Ludicolo, Jynx, and Cradily switch-ins, with Megahorn, 3HKOing Lanturn, 2HKOing Cradily, and OHKOing Ludicolo and Jynx, as they can all easily shrug off Hydro Pump due to their resistance or immunity to the move. If the opponent has a hard counter to Samurott, such as Poliwrath or Mantine depending on its coverage, it's best to switch out to a teammate that threatens them and force them out to make them take entry hazard damage. Samurott can be used as a check to the likes of Archeops and Pyroar if necessary, nailing them with Aqua Jet or even using them as an opportunity to launch another attack if you predict the foe will switch, but Samurott will often be left with barely any HP. Grass- and Electric-types and Freeze-Dry users, such as Lilligant, Rotom, and Vanilluxe, beat the bulky Water-types that check Samurott, such as Lanturn, Poliwrath, and Mantine. While special Samurott has a good matchup against slower Grass-types thanks to its strong, Life Orb-boosted Ice Beam and Megahorn, it still wants partners to handle faster Grass-types such as Lilligant; Vileplume, Garbodor, and Fire-types make for decent partners in this regard. Pokemon such as Klinklang, Barbaracle, Zebstrika, Lilligant, and Pyroar can sweep teams after Samurott breaks down their walls, as Samurott can weaken or even outright beat the Grass- and Water-types and general bulky Pokemon that prevent them from sweeping. Though Samurott has the bulk to switch into weak and resisted hits, it really appreciates U-turn and Volt Switch support from the likes of Scyther, Rotom, and Manectric, whose common checks are handled by Samurott, in order to be able to come in unscathed. Though the special set really appreciates its wide coverage, it can sometimes sacrifice a slot for another move. Substitute is an option to ease prediction and makes Samurott harder to revenge kill overall. Dragon Tail can be used on Spikes-stacking teams to weaken the opposing team and bring Samurott's checks into KO range. Superpower nails Ferroseed, though it doesn't hit anything else notable. Hidden Power Electric can be used on the special set to hit the likes of Pelipper, Mantine, and Poliwrath.
Samurott (SM competitive strategy): Samurott is one of the best offensive Water-types in the NU tier. Thanks to its balanced attacking stats, it can effectively run physical, special, and mixed sets. Having access to near-perfect coverage with moves like Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, and Grass Knot, it rarely finds itself hard walled by any Pokemon. It also has access to Swords Dance and Aqua Jet, allowing it to perform as a sweeper, as well as another utility move in Taunt, which can give it the opportunity to break through Pokemon like Vaporeon and defensive Slowking by preventing them from recovering. It can also prevent status moves from the likes of Mega Audino and Stealth Rock from Pokemon like Druddigon. Samurott has quite a few checks, however, such as Heliolisk and Vaporeon, both of which tank Water-type moves with ease, preventing Samurott from spamming Hydro Pump and Liquidation. Heliolisk works especially well against Samurott, as it is faster and puts a stop to both the special and Swords Dance sets. Samurott is further hindered by its mediocre Speed, meaning you'll have to keep it healthy so it can set up and sweep. This also makes it easy to revenge kill with Pokemon that are resistant to Aqua Jet, such as Sceptile and Whimsicott. Hydro Pump gives Samurott a powerful STAB move that can easily break through Pokemon that don't resist it. Grass Knot is its main coverage move, allowing Samurott to hit Water-resistant foes like Seismitoad and Slowking for more damage. Ice Beam provides additional coverage and consistent damage and is Samurott's main attack to hit the potent Heliolisk as well as various Grass-types like Sceptile and Whimsicott. Taunt can be run to prevent status and stop entry hazards from going up, effectively allowing Samurott to stay healthy longer. Another reason as to why Taunt is useful is to allow Samurott to beat Vaporeon one-on-one. Knock Off is an option over Taunt to remove items like Assault Vest on Slowking and Leftovers on Vaporeon. Aqua Jet can also be used over Taunt to give Samurott some kind of priority against faster Pokemon like Aerodactyl and Delphox. However, it is a bit weaker due to the lack of Attack investment. Finally, Surf can be run over Hydro Pump for a more consistent Water-type STAB move. However, it does worsen most matchups, as the power Hydro Pump gives off is irreplaceable. Maximum Special Attack and Speed EVs along with a Timid nature are run to make Samurott as fast and as powerful as possible. Life Orb effectively makes its attacks more powerful. Expert Belt can be used over Life Orb to deal decent damage with super effective hits while not taking recoil. Torrent is used to boost Samurott’s Water-type moves if it gets below 1/3rd of its HP. This can let Samurott pull off a clutch sweep with Aqua Jet. Make sure to play around Heliolisk effectively. It is Samurott's best counter, as it can be healed up by Water-type attacks. Try to avoid spamming Hydro Pump and Surf before Heliolisk and other Water-immune Pokemon like Seismitoad, which is susceptible to Grass Knot, are taken out. Instead, try using Ice Beam to catch Heliolisk on the switch. Try to take out all special walls such as Mega Audino and Assault Vest Slowking before spamming moves with Samurott, as taking Life Orb damage just for the foe to soak up a hit and heal right up is not ideal. Thankfully, Samurott can prevent this in many ways, such as using Taunt on Audino to prevent Wish. Knock Off can also hit Assault Vest users such as Hariyama and Slowking, allowing Samurott to muscle through them more easily. Be sure to Taunt Pokemon like Druddigon and Vaporeon to prevent entry hazards and status moves like Toxic. Vaporeon is also shut down by Taunt, as it prevents it from using Wish, effectively letting Samurott beat it one-on-one. Due to Samurott's low Speed stat, it's advised to send it in on Pokemon that are slower than it, like Steelix and Rhydon. This will allow it to get as much damage off as it can while taking less damage. Physical wallbreakers such as Incineroar and Medicham are great partners for Samurott, as they help break through special walls like Mega Audino and Cryogonal. Electric-types like Heliolisk also help Samurott, as they deal with the Water-types Samurott struggles with such as Vaporeon and Assault Vest Slowking. Electric-resistant Pokemon such as Decidueye and Dhelmise also make for good partners, as they can effectively deal with Samurott's biggest counter, Heliolisk. Grass-resistant Pokemon like Delphox and Incineroar can help weaken and even eliminate Grass-types such as Sceptile and Whimsicott, which resist Aqua Jet. Samurott can support physical Choice Scarf users such as Braviary and Passimian, as Samurott eliminates their checks. The same logic can also be applied to late-game sweepers like Comfey, as Samurott helps weaken its checks as well. Swords Dance gives Samurott the ability to break or sweep through teams effectively. Liquidation is the most powerful physical STAB move it has access to, allowing it to have consistent damage output throughout the match. Waterfall can be run over Liquidation for the flinch chance, although the extra power from Liquidation is nice to have. Aqua Jet is used for priority and helps with Samurott's low Speed stat. However, it can also make Samurott a potent revenge killer, being able to potentially OHKO Aerodactyl and Delphox. Lastly, Megahorn targets some of Samurott's easiest switch-ins such as Heliolisk and Slowking. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs along with a Jolly nature allow Samurott to be both as fast and as powerful as it can. Buginium Z is usually run to give Samurott the ability to OHKO Slowking with a +2 Attack boost, but Waterium Z can be run as well for a consistent STAB Z-Move if you so wish. Lum Berry is also something to consider, as it can let Samurott easily beat Vaporeon one-on-one. Besides those three items, Rindo Berry and Wacan Berry are both options as well if Samurott is needed to take a Grass- or Electric-type hit. For example, it may be useful to take a Thunderbolt from Heliolisk if you need to hit it with a Megahorn. Torrent is used so Samurott's Water-type moves, specifically Aqua Jet, can do more at less than a third of its HP. Unless there is a clear opportunity early on, Samurott shouldn't try to sweep until late-game. Samurott will be better off if it waits until most Pokemon are chipped down to sweep. However, if there is an opportunity for Samurott to set up a Swords Dance and wallbreak, you should take that opportunity. A Swords Dance-boosted Liquidation is sure to do a ton of damage to anything that doesn't resist Water, and the foes that do resist it like Slowking and Vaporeon are susceptible to Megahorn. Keep Samurott away from status moves like Will-O-Wisp from Incineroar and Toxic from Vaporeon, as they will ruin any chance Samurott had to sweep. If at all possible, try to get Samurott into Torrent range to maximize the power of its Water-type moves, specifically Aqua Jet, to help it sweep. Aqua Jet should be used to clean late-game to hit faster Pokemon that can KO Samurott. It can also be used throughout the match to simply KO weakened Pokemon. Consistent Heliolisk answers such as Decidueye and Togedemaru should be paired with Samurott, as they help eliminate one of its biggest threats. They can soak up Electric- and Normal-type STAB moves and almost always take every other coverage move with the exception of the rare Dark Pulse for Decidueye and Focus Blast in Togedemaru's case. Pokemon that deal with physical walls, such as Heliolisk and Alolan Exeggutor, are welcomed. Not only do they easily eliminate some of Samurott's biggest checks, but they also help chip down the opposing team in general, making it easier for Samurott to sweep late-game. Grass-resistant Pokemon such as Incineroar and Magmortar are helpful, as they can come in on some of Samurott's best checks like Sceptile and Whimsicott and use their Fire-type moves. Incineroar and Silvally-Steel are particularly good picks, as they can pivot around using U-turn or Parting Shot. Xatu can make a great partner for Samurott, as it can bounce back entry hazards and status, both of which can be detrimental to Samurott. Spikes and Toxic Spikes users such as Ferroseed and Garbodor can help chip down some of Samurott's bulkier checks like Seismitoad and Torterra, making it easier for Samurott to sweep late-game. Pokemon like Comfey and Heliolisk that enjoy the presence of a physical wallbreaker are great partners for Samurott, as it assists them in being able to clean or sweep. A mixed Choice Scarf set can be viable with Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, Grass Knot, and Superpower. Use this if your team lacks a way to check faster foes, although the fact that Samurott cannot switch moves and doesn't have any sort of item power boost means it may come up short. Superpower is run to surprise Heliolisk with an OHKO so Samurott can consistently spam Hydro Pump. Life Orb can be run on the Swords Dance set to give a slight damage boost if you already have a Z-Move holder. Superpower is an option on both sets, as it helps Samurott deal with Heliolisk.
Audino (BW competitive strategy): Audino is a premier special wall in PU thanks to its good bulk, great support movepool, and fantastic ability in Regenerator. Audino's access to important support options like Heal Bell and Wish also make it a cornerstone of many stall and bulky offense teams. However, Audino's Normal typing leaves it with little to no meaningful resistances in the tier, making its ability to wall harder than some other choices like Bronzor. Audino is also perilously passive, meaning that many offensive Pokemon such as Monferno or Beheeyem can set up or outright KO it with little fear. Wish and Protect are key for this set as they provide healing not just for Audino but for all of Audino's team as well. Audino's last move is dependent on what the rest of the team needs. Heal Bell is the most common, as the ability to rid Audino and its teammates of status is extremely valuable in PU. Encore can lock opposing Pokemon into unfavorable moves, such as setting a redundant entry hazard or forcing a setup Pokemon like Scraggy or Beheeyem to continually set up, which gives Audino's teammates a few turns to respond to that threat. Toxic is by far the least popular option, but can still be handy for racking up chip damage that Audino can struggle to do otherwise. Audino is able to tank many special hits, but can struggle against physical attacks. As such, Pokemon such as Stunfisk or Bronzor make good teammates. Audino only has one weakness to Fighting, so Pokemon such as Frillish or Duosion, which can tank Fighting-type attacks are also good partners. All of these Pokemon also heavily appreciate the Wish and Heal Bell support that Audino provides. Audino is also passive and invites in many Pokemon that might try to set up and win, so phazers such as Zweilous or fast Encore Pokemon such as Jumpluff can also make for good teammates.
Audino (XY competitive strategy): While Mega Audino has a large number of unique and highly useful attributes, its lack of immediate offensive power and speed can make it easy to exploit depending on its moveset. Setup sweepers can capitalize on sets without Encore or Toxic, Steel- and Poison-types can wall sets that lack coverage, and Toxic completely shuts down most sets without Heal Bell or Rest. Overall, once Mega Audino has been sufficiently scouted, it becomes a lot easier to deal with if appropriate checks are preserved throughout the game. Calm Mind turns Mega Audino into a highly effective wincon by boosting its Special Attack and Special Defense. After a few boosts, it becomes practically unbreakable with special attacks and a big threat to teams once Pokemon that resist Fairy are removed. Dazzling Gleam is Mega Audino's best STAB attack and hits the majority of foes for neutral damage without having anything immune to it, unlike Hyper Voice. It also lets Mega Audino check Fighting- and Dark-types, such as Hariyama, Shiftry, and Malamar, without having to boost its stats, giving it decent early-game utility. The combination of Wish + Protect provides Mega Audino with reliable recovery while also letting it heal its teammates throughout the match, again making it useful before it attempts a sweep. However, Rest + Sleep Talk can be used instead to make Mega Audino less vulnerable to status and more of a dedicated wincon than a supportive pivot. Fire Blast is an option to prevent Mega Audino from being walled by common Steel- and Poison-types, but using it in one of the latter two slots drastically reduces the reliability of Mega Audino's recovery, and generally the move is used better on other sets. 48 Special Attack EVs give Mega Audino an 87% chance to 3HKO specially defensive Malamar so it doesn't have to use Calm Mind to stop Malamar from using RestTalk. The remaining EVs and Bold nature are used to make Mega Audino as physically bulky as possible to prevent its sweep from being interrupted by powerful physical attackers such as Kangaskhan and Tauros. Regenerator should be the pre-Mega ability so that Audino can pivot in and out of the match more effectively before deciding to set up for a sweep, letting it provide more consistent Wish support. Early in the game, Audino can be used effectively as a physical pivot, switching into attackers such as Shiftry and Piloswine, making the most of its immunity to Knock Off's effect and damage boost, and using Wish to either heal its teammates or provide them with safe opportunities to switch in they would not normally have. Regenerator's passive healing lets Audino take weaker attacks and provide Wish support indefinitely, so it should not Mega Evolve early unless it has to. However, for example, if the opponent is threatening to clean up with Malamar, Audino should Mega Evolve so that it can deal with it. Mega Audino can still be used well as a physically defensive pivot after Mega Evolving, but it is more susceptible to being worn down by repeated attacks if it attempts to support its teammates with Wish rather than heal itself. Mega Audino should not attempt to sweep with Calm Mind until Poison- and Steel-types that threaten it, such as Steelix and Garbodor, have been removed, as it lacks the power to beat them without a coverage move even after several boosts. Mega Audino can set up on many Pokemon until it reaches +6 Special Attack and Special Defense, but it usually shouldn't attempt this, as the chances of being hit with a critical hit increase the longer it stays in, and due to Wish's delayed nature, it may be difficult to salvage the sweep after this. If RestTalk is the chosen healing method, Mega Audino can also set up against Pokemon that would normally use Toxic to beat it, such as Mantine and Lanturn. It can also be used as a status sponge for your team in the early-game, dealing with threats such as Rotom and Mismagius instead of providing Wish support. Attackers with strong Ground- and Fire-type coverage, such as Rhydon and Magmortar, are highly useful for breaking through the Poison- and Steel-types that can prevent Mega Audino from sweeping. Specially defensive teammates that lack reliable recovery also appreciate Mega Audino's physical bulk and Wish support. Mantine is an especially good partner for this set, as it can also deal with most Steel- and Poison-types using either Scald or a powerful Hydro Pump, provided these foes don't hit it with Electric-type coverage on the switch. Camerupt similarly deals major damage to Steel- and Poison-types while also providing Stealth Rock and status support. If Wish and Protect are used, Heal Bell support is necessary. Otherwise, Mega Audino is completely shut down by Toxic, being forced to heal more often instead of boosting and never being able to become a substantial threat. Lanturn and Musharna are solid choices that can also deal with threatening foes such as Magmortar and Muk. Toxic Spikes completely cripple Calm Mind Mega Audino, so using a grounded Poison-type to absorb them is also mandatory. Skuntank can do this while dealing with Calm Mind Psychic-types that could boost alongside Mega Audino and beat it with Psyshock, such as Musharna and Xatu. Vileplume and Garbodor are other options to provide more backup against physical attackers, with the latter also providing Spikes support. Weezing can also be a good teammate due to its ability to take on many physical attackers that could otherwise force Mega Audino into healing instead of boosting, and it highly appreciates Wish and Heal Bell support from Audino, but it can't absorb Toxic Spikes. Calm Mind is used to increase Mega Audino's offensive power and prevent it from being revenge killed by special attackers, and it only needs to be used once for this set to become a significant offensive threat. Healing Wish is an alternative option that lets Mega Audino sacrifice itself to fully restore a teammate, and this set makes good use of the move due to its ability to force switches, with opponents often assuming a defensive set is being used and switching to a threat that can break through it. Dazzling Gleam is a decent, reliable STAB attack that can deal significant damage after a single boost and has good overall neutral coverage. Fire Blast deals heavy damage to usual responses to defensive sets, such as Steelix, Ferroseed, and Vileplume, OHKOing them after one or two Calm Mind boosts. Surf is an excellent additional attack that gives Mega Audino perfect neutral coverage and hits certain targets that could otherwise exploit it, such as Rhydon, Magmortar, Ninetales, and Charizard, making it quite difficult to wall outside of dedicated specially defensive Pokemon. Thunder Wave is a useful support option, paralyzing faster foes that might switch in to break through a defensive set, such as Swords Dance Samurott. This can make them fodder for a teammate such as Abomasnow or Aurorus. Psychic is another coverage option that more reliably deals with Poison-types, such as Garbodor and Weezing, being useful on sets that lack Calm Mind to boost Fire Blast to similar levels of power against them. Grass Knot is an excellent niche option for luring in and removing Quagsire, which can stop other setup sweepers on your team, such as Barbaracle and Samurott, with Unaware. Maximum Speed investment is used to outspeed Rhydon, Weezing, and uninvested Malamar and Garbodor sets, letting Mega Audino hit them hard after a boost as they expect to outspeed it. The rest of the EVs are put into Special Attack alongside a Modest nature to give Mega Audino as much immediate power as possible. A bulkier spread of 168 HP / 252 SpA / 88 Spe can be used to outspeed uninvested Weezing and Sliggoo, but Audino's high base HP means that this doesn't increase its bulk too much. In addition, Weezing tends to run Speed EVs, which generally makes this a moot point. Regenerator should be used as the pre-Mega ability so that Audino can pivot into enemies and use its support moves more reliably before Mega Evolving. Offensive Mega Audino should be used as a lure that draws in its usual checks, such as Steel- and Poison-types like Steelix and Weezing, and either hitting them with Fire Blast on the switch or using Calm Mind to set up and hit them harder on the following turn. These targets usually do not expect to be threatened by Mega Audino and thus can be outright KOed quite often as they try to hit it with their own STAB attacks. While Audino can attempt to pivot throughout the game, using Thunder Wave to paralyze threats early on, it's often more effective for it to Mega Evolve immediately so that it can draw in responses as soon as possible, opening up the way for a sweep for a teammate before the opponent realises Mega Audino's strategy. Healing Wish should be used in the late-game to give a sweeper such as Swords Dance Scyther another chance at securing a victory or to give a wallbreaker such as Abomasnow another chance to break through the opponent's defensive checks. Due to the Speed investment, Mega Audino can usually use this move against defensive Pokemon such as Lanturn and Mantine without risk of being KOed by a surprise attack. This set lacks significant defensive investment and thus should not be switched into strong attacks before Mega Evolving or be expected to avoid 2HKOs from attacks such as Samurott's Hydro Pump thereafter. Any Pokemon that appreciates the removal of Steel- and Poison-type Pokemon will highly appreciate this set as a partner. Pokemon that like Fire-types being removed, such as Will-O-Wisp users like Rotom and Mismagius, also appreciate this set if it runs Surf. Scyther, Tauros, and Pinsir particularly love Rhydon and Steelix being lured in and removed by the appropriate coverage moves, and being able to either set up and sweep or make the most of a strong STAB attack against a defenseless team. Likewise, Fighting-types such as Hariyama and Hitmonchan appreciate Poison-types being removed, while Psychic-types such as Musharna and Mesprit enjoy the removal of Steel-types. The latter can also form Calm Mind cores with Mega Audino that can wear down bulky defensive Pokemon throughout the match. Slow, powerful attackers such as Abomasnow and Aurorus can capitalize on Mega Audino's ability to reliably pull off Thunder Wave against powerful attackers like Shiftry and Lilligant and highly appreciate its ability to restore them fully with Healing Wish, as do other Pokemon with issues against residual damage, such as Rock Polish Torterra. The combination of Wish + Protect allows Audino to keep itself healthy throughout the match and to provide recovery for its teammates, both before and after Mega Evolution. Heal Bell makes Audino less susceptible to Toxic and lets it act as a dedicated cleric for its teammates, allowing them to play more offensively against the opponent's status users that can't threaten it otherwise, such as Lanturn. Fire Blast can be used to prevent Mega Audino from being completely walled by Steelix as it completes its Wishing responsibilities, although it does significantly less damage without any offensive investment. Encore is also a good option for locking down setup sweepers that may try to capitalize on Audino's passive nature, such as bulky Swords Dance Charizard and Scyther, providing its teammates with opportunities to switch in or providing itself with more opportunities to support them with Wish. Finally, Dazzling Gleam is a consistent STAB attack that prevents this set from being completely blocked by Taunt and allows Mega Audino to deal with Dark- and Fighting-types more effectively. The EV spread gives Mega Audino a good amount of mixed bulk to tank attacks with, avoiding the 2HKO from both Samurott's Hydro Pump and Tauros' Rock Climb after Stealth Rock. 48 SpA EVs can be used to ensure Dazzling Gleam 3HKOes Malamar, but extracting these EVs from either defensive stat allows small chances for the previously mentioned 2HKOs to occur. A spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD with a Calm nature can be used to better deal with Life Orb Magmortar and specially offensive weather sweepers such as Omastar and Exeggutor, in addition to boosting special attackers such as Nasty Plot Ninetales if Mega Audino uses Encore. Regenerator should always be used as the pre-Mega ability on this set, as Audino is likely to forgo Mega Evolution until absolutely necessary so that it can pivot in and out of weaker attackers more reliably. The aim of this set is to switch into the opponent's attacks throughout the game, tank them, and follow up with a suitable support move depending on the needs of the team at the time. Wish can be used in the early-game to give Audino's teammates opportunities to switch in that they would normally lack, or it can be used in the late-game to simply restore their health after they have taken a powerful attack. Audino should switch in when it gets a chance against defensive Pokemon if it runs Heal Bell so that it can remove status from teammates and ensure that defensive cores on a team can avoid being worn down by burns/poison and so that offensive Pokemon can remain unhindered by burns or paralysis. Encore should be used to provide Audino's teammates with setup opportunities against foes locked into exploitable moves, such as Stealth Rock and Substitute, usually needing to use Encore on the same turn as the opponent uses these setup moves due to Audino's low Speed stat. Pokemon that lack reliable recovery and are vulnerable to status highly appreciate Audino's ability to support them with Wish and Heal Bell. Generally, this set is most useful to fully defensive teams that require reliable healing and status removal for all teammates, so defensive Pokemon such as Weezing and Steelix are good teammates that also provide good defensive synergy. Assault Vest users such as Hariyama and Magmortar also appreciate this support, as do general tanks such as Piloswine that are susceptible to stallbreakers like Rotom and Mismagius. Setup sweepers appreciate Audino's ability to lock down defensive responses with Encore. In particular, Double Dance Rhydon can take on Steel- and Poison-types easily with its powerful STAB attacks and can capitalize on Encore with its variety of setup options. Musharna also appreciates Heal Bell support from Audino, as this allows it to use Synchronize to inflict status on opponents that try to use moves such as Toxic to prevent it from sweeping, before coming back healthy in the late-game to complete the sweep. Thunder Wave, Healing Wish, Trick Room, Knock Off, Toxic, and Yawn can all be used on the defensive pivot set in the third slot, but they have less general utility than the options selected. Draining Kiss can be used over Dazzling Gleam, allowing Mega Audino to spend fewer turns using Wish or Rest to heal itself, but the lack of power is very noticeable even at +6, and even more so if Calm Mind is not being used alongside it. It can actually be PP stalled quite easily on boosting sets because of its low power. Hyper Voice is an alternative STAB attack that boasts greater power than Dazzling Gleam, has the ability to bypass Substitutes, and allows the defensive Calm Mind set to eventually break through Fire-types such as Magmortar and Poison-types such as Garbodor and Weezing. However, it lacks the super effective coverage that Dazzling Gleam provides against Dark- and Fighting-types, and it is completely blocked by Ghost-types, making it a poor choice for a mono-attacking set without dedicated Pursuit support. Audinite is absolutely mandatory as the item for all sets due to the extra bulk, attacking power, and Fairy typing that Mega Evolution provides, not to mention the utility that Audino gets from shifting playstyles so dynamically. Leftovers can be used on the pivot set to prevent Audino from being worn down so quickly by entry hazard damage as it pivots around, but it's never worth the drawbacks of having a worse STAB option, significantly worse general bulk, and weakness to Fighting-type attacks. In NU, there is no opportunity cost for using Mega Audino as your Mega Evolution of choice due to its complete lack of competition.
Audino (SM competitive strategy): Thanks to high defensive stats and a workable defensive typing, Mega Audino is one of NU's premier walls, able to take on a large variety of the tier's attackers. An excellent ability pre-Mega Evolution also allows Audino to easily keep itself healthy without needing to use a turn healing itself, helping it to reduce lost momentum. This combined with its Normal typing is usually enough to wall most of NU's special attackers, only requiring Audino to Mega Evolve if the resistances and extra bulk the Mega Evolution brings are needed. Mega Audino also has access to an extremely wide support movepool, including many options such as Heal Bell, Wish, and Encore, as well as a wide offensive movepool, giving it exceptional coverage. However, very lackluster offensive stats, especially before Mega Evolving, force Mega Audino to rely on Toxic to deal damage, or otherwise it can be fairly passive. Wish allows Mega Audino to support its team by keeping their HP up while also healing itself, and Protect prevents Mega Audino from being damaged on the turn that Wish heals it. Protect also allows Mega Audino to scout what move a Choiced foe will lock itself into while reducing the damage of any Z-Moves, such as an All-Out Pummeling from Scrafty. Toxic allows Mega Audino to easily wear down many unboosted attackers in NU, especially combined with Protect. Heal Bell allows Mega Audino to keep its team status free while preventing itself from being worn down by Toxic. Knock Off allows Mega Audino to remove a foe's item, weakening Choiced attackers such as Alolan Exeggutor and Vikavolt and removing items from defensive walls such as Steelix, Golbat and Vaporeon, allowing them to be worn down more easily. Alternatively, Dazzling Gleam lets Mega Audino deal with Guzzlord and prevents it from being setup fodder for Scrafty. Maximum HP investment allows Mega Audino to maximize the healing of its Wishes while also increasing its overall bulk. Maximum Special Defense investment and a Calm nature allow Mega Audino to wall many of NU's special attackers, taking 42% maximum from strong attacks such as Sceptile's Life Orb-boosted Leaf Storm once Mega-Evolved and avoiding a 2HKO from Choice Specs Guzzlord's Sludge Wave. An alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 208 Def / 48 SpA with a Bold nature and Dazzling Gleam as Mega Audino's attacking move allows it to take on physical attackers such as Passimian, Aerodactyl, Scrafty, and Sneasel much more reliably. Regenerator should be used to allow Audino to scout which moves dangerous enemy Choiced special attackers such as Heliolisk lock themselves into, as this heavily reduces the risk of a wrong prediction. Afterwards, the user can choose to pivot Audino out again if the foe deals significant damage to it. Thus, Audino should try to avoid Mega Evolving until it needs the additional Fairy typing, for example against Guzzlord or Scrafty. Audino should generally be brought into enemy special attackers such as Guzzlord, Vikavolt, and Magmortar to use its incredible special bulk to keep its team healthy, as well as using Wish to heal up its teammates and Heal Bell when needed. Thanks to its unique ability to check Heliolisk, mixed Mega Abomasnow, Vikavolt, and Choice Specs Whimsicott reliably, Mega Audino can provide excellent role compression to many balance and stall teams in NU. Pokemon that appreciate Wish support such as Steelix, Rhydon, Silvally-Steel, and Hariyama are often great partners to this set, as it can patch up one of their major weaknesses. Seismitoad is a fantastic partner that can comfortably check Steel-types and most Fire-types for Audino as well as set up Stealth Rock. Pokemon that appreciate Mega Audino's ability to check many of the tier's Dark-types such as Rotom and Xatu can make great partners, with Xatu in particular also helping Mega Audino out by checking enemy Steelix and Garbodor and keeping entry hazards away. In general, entry hazard control from Silvally-Steel, Xatu, and Rotom greatly helps Mega Audino out, as otherwise it cannot take advantage of Regenerator to its fullest. If you're using Knock Off, Pokemon that appreciate Steelix having its Leftovers removed such as Klinklang and Braviary can make great partners. If you're using Toxic, Pokemon that appreciate Slowking, Vaporeon, and Cryogonal worn down such as Incineroar, Delphox, and Sneasel are great options. Thanks to Mega Audino's weakness to enemy Poison-types, Pokemon such as Rhydon, Klinklang, and Steelix that can take on the likes of Garbodor are excellent partners. Mega Audino also functions excellently on stall teams, with Pokemon such as Pyukumuku mitigating its weakness to enemy setup sweepers and Pokemon such as Cryogonal removing hazards for it and preventing it from being worn down by repeated switches into enemy Heliolisk. Clerics such as Vaporeon can also help Mega Audino, as if not using Heal Bell itself, it is quite vulnerable to Toxic poison. If using Heal Bell itself, Mega Audino can easily support teammates that are weak to Toxic such as Cryogonal while also supporting any teammates using Rest such as Pyukumuku.
Audino (SS competitive strategy): Cleric support is often at the heart of defensive teams, and a good representative of this role is Audino. Not only can it cure status, but it also passes hefty Wishes and sponges damage thanks to Wish and Regenerator. This extensive recovery makes Audino a solid check to notable special threats like Charizard, Galarian Articuno, and Haunter. Audino has less luck versus setup special attackers like Ribombee and Meteor Beam Archeops, though, as it fails to deter their setup. Its passivity is even more notable versus physical sweepers and stallbreakers like Gallade and Centiskorch, since it lacks Defense investment. Knock Off is better than a STAB attack for Audino, as it better threatens the targets it checks like Charizard and Galarian Articuno, and item removal also deters the likes of Doublade and Choice Specs Jellicent from switching in. Heavy-Duty Boots ensures Audino maximizes the recovery netted from Regenerator, allowing it to scout attacks more safely. Hell Bell can be swapped for Toxic so that Audino is less passive against foes like Sandslash, although the team will need another cleric like Ribombee or Eldegoss given Audino's own vulnerability to Toxic. Walls like Gigalith, Regirock, and Aggron all lack reliable recovery, making them viable receivers for Wish—or Heal Bell if they opt for Rest. Their Stealth Rock support works great with Audino's Knock Off removing opposing Heavy-Duty Boots, and they also function as counters to Ribombee. Fighting-type checks like Weezing and Silvally-Fairy are always warranted as switch-ins for Gallade. Eldegoss and Tangela offer natural synergy by forming a Regenerator core, with either blanket checking physical attackers for Audino. Other physical walls such as Quagsire and Weezing are also good partners. Quagsire stands out, as it can completely quash most setup sweepers.
Yveltal (XY competitive strategy): Yveltal is blessed by its incredible typing and stat spread, as they give it amazing versatility. Dark Aura adds to this by giving it a boost to its already powerful Dark-type STAB attacks. Yveltal's bulk, typing, access to recovery, and power make it a decent check to Primal Groudon, as well as one of the best switch-ins to Arceus-Ghost. It is one of the best users of Life Orb in Ubers thanks to its strong signature move, Oblivion Wing; it is also able to pull off a dangerous bulky set due to its access to Roost and Dark Aura-boosted Foul Play. Yveltal also has access to the strongest priority move in the game, Dark Aura-boosted Sucker Punch. Although its typing isn't bad defensively, it doesn't offer many resistances, and it leaves Yveltal weak to Stealth Rock as well as Fairy- and Rock-type attacks while its two immunities are voided by common coverage moves. Yveltal's Speed is enough to get it past the horde of Pokemon with Speed stats in between base 90 and 95, but it is still rather slow when compared to quite a few threats in Ubers. Choice Band and Dark Aura boost the strength of Knock Off to lethal levels, making it Yveltal's STAB move of choice. It is powerful enough to OHKO Ho-Oh and 2HKO Klefki, both conventional Yveltal checks, and Knock Off's item removal effect makes it extremely dangerous for Xerneas to switch in lest it be neutered by prematurely losing its Power Herb. U-turn is useful to pivot out of Pokemon that Choice Band Yveltal does not necessarily match up well against, such as support Arceus formes. U-turn also scores an easy 2HKO on Tyranitar, which doesn't necessarily mind taking Knock Off. While it may seem counterintuitive to run Foul Play on a Choice Band set, the boost conferred by Choice Band does make it powerful enough to 2HKO all variants of Primal Groudon and OHKO offensive Mega Salamence variants after Stealth Rock, neither of which Knock Off can accomplish. Sucker Punch rounds out the set by providing extremely strong priority to check Pokemon faster than Yveltal, easily destroying fast Psychic-types such as Mewtwo and doing upwards of 70% damage to offensive Mega Salamence. Steel Wing can also be used to reliably 2HKO Xerneas and OHKO Mega Diancie, though it is weak against all other targets. Maximum Attack investment and an Adamant nature are necessary to allow Yveltal to hit as hard as possible, securing the OHKO on Ho-Oh and the 2HKO on Klefki and Skarmory. 32 Defense EVs grant Yveltal guaranteed survival against a +2 Extreme Speed from both Jolly Life Orb and Adamant Silk Scarf variants of Extreme Killer Arceus, and they also allow Yveltal to survive Choice Band Dragon Ascent from Jolly Rayquaza at full HP. The remaining EVs go into Speed, letting Yveltal outpace any neutral-natured Pokemon below the base 95 Speed tier. A Jolly nature can be used instead to outrun any Rayquaza variant and Modest Latios, but the power drop is noticeable, and Yveltal's access to Sucker Punch means the added Speed usually isn't necessary. Switch in Yveltal against Pokemon it can force to switch out—typically Ghost- or Psychic-types—and just throw out attacks. Knock Off's power and item removal effect make it safe to spam in most cases, easily tearing apart most checks to special Yveltal sets and still leaving a noticeable dent in Pokemon such as Primal Groudon and support Arceus formes. Since a purely physical Yveltal set carries some surprise value, one can try switching in Yveltal against Pokemon special attacking sets would normally force out such as Primal Groudon to create an opening for a free attack. Despite being boosted by Choice Band, U-turn does not do much damage to neutral targets, so it is generally best saved for pivoting out of checks such as Tyranitar and support Arceus formes; otherwise, simply spamming Knock Off is usually the superior option. Be careful with this Yveltal set against faster targets, as the move restrictions of Choice Band may not necessarily allow Yveltal to take out a faster foe with Sucker Punch immediately. Offensively, Choice Band Yveltal tends to lure in and destroy Pokemon such as Ho-Oh and Klefki that would normally be good checks to special attacking Yveltal sets. Xerneas benefits significantly from these Pokemon being gone and can take advantage of Yveltal's U-turn to find an opportunity to set up with Geomancy safely, making it an ideal offensive complement. While Deoxys-A can often punch through Ho-Oh on its own, it does appreciate Klefki being taken out, and Yveltal can buy it free opportunities to switch in with U-turn to punish switch-ins such as support Arceus formes. Dark Pulse is an amazing STAB move that is not only the strongest Dark-type move in the game when boosted by Dark Aura but can also cause flinches to help overcome sticky situations. It is very useful for getting chip damage off against Fairy-types. Oblivion Wing is Yveltal's other STAB move, with the amazing side effect of leeching 75% of the damage done to the foe, giving Yveltal some longevity. It also 2HKOes most Xerneas with the slightest amount of chip damage. Sucker Punch helps Yveltal overcome its average Speed and is the strongest priority move in the game due to Yveltal's Attack stat and the Dark Aura boost. Heat Wave does about 80% to Klefki, forcing it to use a last-ditch status move or Spikes. Either way, if you hit it on the switch, it severely limits Klefki's playability due to its lack of recovery. Focus Blast is an option to hit Tyranitar, but it is generally inferior to the other moves Yveltal runs. Taunt can be used to cripple Klefki as they switch in. It works very well alongside Sucker Punch due to how hard it can be to switch into offensive Yveltal. U-turn can be used alongside Mega Gengar to help it trap Fairy-types that Yveltal draws in. Maximum Special Attack investment allows Yveltal's Dark Pulse and Oblivion Wing to hit as hard as possible. 96 Speed EVs allow Yveltal to outrun Lugia that have no Speed invested and are more than enough to outrun standard Geomancy Xerneas. 132 HP EVs give Yveltal respectable bulk and the ability to survive Mega Salamence's Return only after Stealth Rock damage. The rest of the EVs are put into Attack to power up Sucker Punch. A Rash nature is used instead of Mild in order to make Yveltal take less damage from Extreme Speed and Primal Groudon's Stone Edge or Fire Punch. A Mild nature can be used if Mewtwo is the bigger concern, though. Black Glasses should be used with U-turn so that Yveltal takes less chip damage when switching in, though without Life Orb, Oblivion Wing's power is significantly reduced versus Primal Groudon and Xerneas. Yveltal's two immunities are its best tool for switching it in. Be aware that common coverage moves such as Stone Edge from Ground-types and Ice Beam from Mewtwo hurt a lot, though. When facing down Groudon, it is best to use Oblivion Wing first. Dark Pulse KOes Groudon after Oblivion Wing damage but will never OHKO a healthy Primal Groudon. Use Oblivion Wing whenever a free turn presents itself, such as when Yveltal forces a switch or outspeeds a foe, and when Yveltal's health is starting to dwindle. Never switch Yveltal out against setup sweepers, as its power is great enough that it can KO most of these very easily should they try to set up on it recklessly. Damaging these Pokemon can mean the difference between a win and a loss. This set can be used to cripple and weaken Klefki and prevent it from setting up Spikes, and it can punish Defog users such as Giratina-O, Latios, and Latias. If you choose to run Focus Blast, use it to OHKO Tyranitar to help out a Flying-type partner such as Ho-Oh, but don't switch Yveltal into Tyranitar on a free switch, as this will likely alert your opponent as to what is going on. Xerneas greatly enjoys the pressure Yveltal puts on Klefki and, if Yveltal lands a Heat Wave on the switch, the two will begin to wreak havoc for the rest of the game. Yveltal also soft checks Primal Groudon, which eases using Xerneas tremendously. Yveltal is very difficult to fit on a team due to its lack of defensive utility, but some offensive builds like its unparalleled ability to deal massive damage to Xerneas checks. Threats such as the aforementioned Xerneas, Ho-Oh, Klefki, Mega Diancie, and Mega Metagross all partner very well with it depending on the team structure. Mega Gengar and Yveltal form a neat U-turn and Shadow Tag core should Yveltal use U-Turn and Gengar carry Sludge Wave. Trapping the Fairy-types Yveltal brings in with Mega Gengar gives Yveltal an amazing window to begin doing damage. Fairy-type switch-ins are almost mandatory, with Primal Groudon, Ho-Oh, Klefki, Aegislash, and Jirachi being some of the best. Dark Aura-boosted STAB Foul Play prevents any boosting physical attacker from setting up and staying in on Yveltal. Roost is Yveltal's form of reliable recovery that also removes its Flying typing for the turn, meaning slower Rock-, Electric-, and Ice-type attacks will no longer be super effective the turn this move is used. Toxic helps Yveltal deal with other walls and helps punish a lot of its switch-ins, namely Xerneas. Taunt is primarily used to cripple Klefki so it can't use Yveltal as Spikes or status fodder. It also prevents Calm Mind and support Arceus formes from setting up or using Recover after they have been badly poisoned by Toxic. Its only other function is toying with Ferrothorn, Forretress, and other slower support Pokemon. Sucker Punch gives Yveltal the ability to check Mewtwo as well as pick off other weakened dedicated attackers. Alternatively, Heat Wave 2HKOes Klefki and also allows Yveltal to cook Ferrothorn and Scizor if it can find the window to. It makes Yveltal nearly useless versus stall teams, however, because it must be run over Taunt in order to be used effectively. Make sure to have solid ways of dealing with stall teams when using Heat Wave. Running maximum Defense investment allows Yveltal to take strong physical attacks. The HP investment nearly maximizes Yveltal's ability to take physical hits while minimizing the amount of damage it takes from Stealth Rock. A Bold nature is preferred when using Toxic; if Yveltal has Sucker Punch on its set, use an Impish nature to maximize Sucker Punch's damage with no Attack investment. Charti Berry allows Yveltal to more effectively check Stone Edge Extreme Killer Arceus and Primal Groudon. Dread Plate can be used to boost the power of Foul Play and Sucker Punch if it's necessary; it notably allows Foul Play to OHKO +2 Attack Extreme Killer Arceus without help from Stealth Rock or Life Orb damage. Use a Bold nature when using Heat Wave. Keep in mind Yveltal is a physical tank that is weak to Stealth Rock and sometimes doesn't hold Leftovers. It will be forced to use Roost at some point, so make sure you have solid ways of dealing with its switch-ins. Be careful around Extreme Killer Arceus if the composition of the opposing team suggests it carries Stone Edge, because if it does, Yveltal cannot effectively check it. The tell-tale signs of Stone Edge Arceus are it being on a hyper offensive team with few to no Mega Salamence checks, with Arceus being the only Pokemon that Salamence easily sets up on. Many of Yveltal's switch-ins, such as Fairy-types and bulky Arceus formes, hate Toxic, so it will be the move you choose most against opposing switches. Yveltal can come in on almost any physical attacker in the Ubers metagame and proceed to KO it with a Foul Play or two. Ho-Oh is a very troublesome physical attacker due to Sacred Fire's extremely high burn probability. Burn does affect Foul Play's damage, so staying in on Ho-Oh is not advisable in most situations. On a similar note, Primal Groudon's Lava Plume also has a nasty burn rate and does very good damage to Yveltal. Other than that, it is a relatively straightforward Pokemon to use. A couple solid switch-ins to Xerneas are required when using defensive Yveltal. Specially defensive Primal Groudon, Ho-Oh, and Klefki are good examples of these. On the other hand, Yveltal is one of the best switch-ins to Primal Groudon there are, so partnering it with Xerneas is also not a bad idea. Softer checks to Extreme Killer Arceus such as Swords Dance Arceus-Ghost are useful in case it has Stone Edge. Defog and Rapid Spin users are also very welcome partners for Yveltal, with the most notable being Latios and Latias due to their sheer reliability. Foul Play is Yveltal's weapon against Extreme Killer Arceus, Mega Mewtwo Y, Swords Dance Arceus-Ground and Arceus-Ghost, and Rayquaza. Dark Pulse is Yveltal's reliable STAB move. It has phenomenal neutral coverage and, with Yveltal's Choice Scarf, allows it to revenge kill many potent threats such as Mega Gengar, Mewtwo, and with some prior damage, Latios and Latias. Oblivion Wing is Yveltal's way of recovering health after a couple Stealth Rock switch-ins and allows Yveltal to revenge kill Mega Mewtwo X, check Blaziken, and steal a bit of health off of anything inside Oblivion Wing's KO range. U-turn is for switch initiative and for scouting for a less obvious Arceus-Dark or Arceus-Fairy. 32 HP and 4 Defense EVs allow Yveltal to always survive a +2 Extreme Speed from standard Extreme Killer Arceus in order to KO it with Foul Play after recoil from its own Life Orb. This also leaves Yveltal with an odd HP number, which allows it to switch into Stealth Rock four times instead of three. The Speed EVs conveniently allow Yveltal to outspeed the rare but extremely dangerous +1 Adamant Dragon Dance Rayquaza and Modest Choice Scarf Kyurem-W. 248 Special Attack EVs power up Dark Pulse and Oblivion Wing. A Modest nature must be used, as otherwise Dark Pulse misses out on quite a few key KOs, such as a 2HKO on offensive Primal Groudon. Choice Scarf Yveltal should be used primarily as a revenge killer, but it can also tank a hit and deal very good damage and possibly KO in return. Using U-turn to scout for Arceus-Fairy or Arceus-Dark is a very good way to gain information on the opposing team's structure early. Remember that this is not the strongest Yveltal set out there, so use very clear discretion when picking what move to lock yourself into, or risk becoming setup bait for quite a few extremely dangerous Pokemon in Ubers. If you wish at all to use this as an Extreme Killer Arceus check, you must not let Stealth Rock be set up before Arceus comes in, otherwise either you give it two turns to set up Swords Dance while you use Defog or Yveltal falls to +2 Extreme Speed after Stealth Rock damage. This Yveltal needs extremely solid checks to Geomancy Xerneas on its team, no questions asked. Klefki and specially defensive Primal Groudon are among the best. Because it can't switch moves and has less power than other sets, Choice Scarf Yveltal works best on more balanced builds that can run solid switch-ins to Fairy-types and other special attackers. These builds also carry Defog users to help Yveltal out with its Stealth Rock weakness. Latias, Latios, Arceus-Water, Arceus-Rock, and Giratina-O are all good examples of Defog users. Magic Bounce users alongside Defog users is also a nice prospect just to preserve Yveltal's ability to smack around +2 Arceus. A Substitute + Disable set is definitely possible. Yveltal is a bit slow, but it deals a lot of damage with Dark Pulse and assumed entry hazard damage once it gets going. Hurricane has similar power to Dark Aura-boosted Dark Pulse, but with Primal Groudon and all of the Pokemon that resist Flying being very prevalent, it usually isn't worth the slot. Knock Off is an interesting option on the Life Orb set, but with all of the items that are "immune" to it, it is a rather subpar option. It would be used to hit Ho-Oh, Blissey, and Fairy-types holding Leftovers. Note that only the Life Orb set should even think about running this. The Choice Scarf set would become setup fodder for Primal Groudon and Primal Kyogre, while the defensive set can't fit it anywhere. A physical set of Hone Claws, Sky Attack, Knock Off, and Sucker Punch can be used with Power Herb as an item. This set destroys Xerneas and Clefable switch-ins, but the set itself is rather unreliable. Choice Specs can be used over Life Orb for more immediate power and no recoil, though this comes at the cost of being unable to switch between attacks.
Yveltal (SS competitive strategy): Yveltal is the most used Pokemon in SS Ubers and an essential part of the metagame. It is by far the most reliable check to Calyrex-S, with Calyrex-S having to rely on Trick, status, and passive damage to defeat it. It is the most common Defogger in a metagame sorely lacking them, and Yveltal's Knock Off limits switch-ins to the point that most teams have a dedicated Knock Off switch-in just for it. Utility options such as U-turn and Taunt give fantastic momentum, and Yveltal has useful revenge killing options in Choice Scarf sets, Sucker Punch, and Foul Play. Additionally, the right team support frees Yveltal up to use one of its devastating offensive sets; boosted by Hone Claws or Choice Band in addition to Dark Aura, Knock Off becomes a terrifying move to switch into. Overall, nearly every serious team should strongly consider having Yveltal. This set puts a great focus on Speed while still switching into Calyrex-S relatively well thanks to its Special Defense investment. The Speed investment allows Yveltal to check certain threats it wouldn't be able to otherwise, as well as more viably run some useful utility options. Knock Off is a strong attack and provides nice team support. Foul Play allows Yveltal to revenge kill Pokemon such as Groudon and Rayquaza, and it will do massive damage even to uninvested Necrozma-DM sets. Taunt prevents Pokemon like Ferrothorn and Eternatus from gaining momentum against Yveltal, and it is generally useful against stall and bulky teams. Taunt is also good against SubSeed Calyrex-S sets, provided they don't get the chance to boost too much with Nasty Plot. Toxic is a great move to catch an opposing Yveltal or Buzzwole off guard, making Yveltal a good check to opposing offensive Yveltal. This set is a fantastic user of Defog, and it's especially useful against Sticky Web teams, outspeeding Pokemon such as Kyogre and Xerneas. Roost provides reliable recovery, and it removing Yveltal's Flying typing can come in handy against Groudon. Heavy-Duty Boots is mandatory to make Yveltal a reliable user of Defog. Jolly is the preferred nature if you are running Knock Off; otherwise, run Timid. An alternative EV spread for either nature is 72 HP / 252 SpD / 184 Spe to have more bulk and still outspeed fully invested base 90 Speed Pokemon. If you desire even more bulk, use a Careful nature instead, and Yveltal will still outspeed neutral nature base 90 Speed Pokemon. With these EVs, U-turn becomes a viable option in the second moveslot. Compared to a more defensive set, the Speed investment is great for using Defog against Sticky Web teams, as Yveltal is immune to Sticky Web, but the lost bulk means it is unable to check Focus Sash Nasty Plot Calyrex-S. In general, Foul Play, Taunt, and Toxic all function much better when Yveltal has Speed investment. Foul Play allows you to have more security against Groudon and Necrozma-DM, which is especially appreciated for teammates such as Zygarde, which may get pressured by Swords Dance sets of both. Ho-Oh makes a good teammate, as it provides a backup check to Calyrex-S while also bringing Defog support. This allows Yveltal to run Taunt and Toxic together, making for a very effective stallbreaker. Necrozma-DM can switch into the Eternatus this set will attract. Groudon, Zygarde, and Zekrom are good teammates that can pivot into opposing Necrozma-DM without fear of paralysis. Blissey functions as a solid secondary check to Calyrex-S, including SubSeed sets, and it can also provide much-appreciated cleric and status support. This is Yveltal's bulkiest set, giving it the most flexibility to deal with Choice Specs and Nasty Plot Calyrex-S. Knock Off is Yveltal's most reliable STAB attack, and it provides fantastic team support. U-turn is a great option to gain momentum against Pokemon like Eternatus, Buzzwole, Zarude, and Tangrowth, which are commonly used to take Knock Off and wall Yveltal. U-turn works well with this set's nonexistent Speed investment, giving you advantageous switches more often. Snarl guarantees that Yveltal will beat all SubSeed Calyrex-S sets. It also is useful against Calm Mind Kyogre when paired with Mystical Fire Eternatus. Sucker Punch can be run to make Yveltal a decent revenge killer, which is greatly appreciated on teams that would otherwise lack a Choice Scarf or priority user. Defog provides invaluable team support, and on many teams, Yveltal is the only viable user of it. If you happen to be running another Defog user such as Ho-Oh, Sucker Punch could be run instead. Heavy-Duty Boots ensures that Yveltal will take no damage from Stealth Rock. The HP and Special Defense investment prevents Nasty Plot Calyrex-S from 2HKOing Yveltal with Draining Kiss or Choice Specs Calyrex-S from 3HKOing it with Astral Barrage. 72 Defense EVs are useful for pivoting on Marshadow, preventing Life Orb-boosted Poltergeist followed by Rock Tomb from KOing Yveltal. If you are running U-turn, 248 HP / 72 Atk / 188 SpD can be run for a chance to break SubSeed Calyrex-S's Substitute with one U-turn. Even more Attack investment could be used: invested U-turn, in combination with a revenge killer such as Choice Scarf Calyrex-S or Shadow Sneak Marshadow, can form an adequate defense against SubSeed Calyrex-S. If Marshadow and SubSeed Calyrex-S are not of concern, Yveltal can use maximum Special Defense investment. This Yveltal will fit on any team archetype outside of hyper offense. While this set counters Calyrex-S, you must be careful about keeping Yveltal healthy. Status effects and Stealth Rock damage, if Yveltal loses its item, can potentially whittle it down enough for Calyrex-S to power through. Additionally, Yveltal receiving a Choice item through Trick can easily force you into dangerous situations. For example, if Yveltal faces Calyrex-S and needs to use Roost to check it the next time it comes in, the opponent can predict that, stay in, and use Nasty Plot. For teammates, Eternatus and Necrozma-DM form the classic core of SS Ubers with Yveltal. Eternatus checks Kyogre, absorbs Knock Off and Toxic, and can even be a backup check to Calyrex-S thanks to its special bulk and Pressure. Necrozma-DM checks the Ice-types, Eternatus, and Xerneas that will force Yveltal out, and it provides status and entry hazard support. Checks to Ground-types, such as Buzzwole, Tangrowth, and Zarude, synergize very well with the aforementioned Pokemon, giving your team checks to the vast majority of threats in the metagame. Ho-Oh can provide its own Defog support to free up Yveltal's third moveslot; Ho-Oh also has an excellent matchup against Necrozma-DM, which is the most common Stealth Rock setter in the metagame and can often cripple Yveltal for using Defog on it thanks to Thunder Wave and Iron Head. Other helpful Necrozma-DM switch-ins are Groudon, Zygarde, Zekrom, and Kyogre. Marshadow and Calyrex-S are good revenge killers, and they pair particularly well with U-turn Yveltal as insurance against SubSeed Calyrex-S; Calyrex-S may also provide Aromatherapy support, as can Blissey, which can be critical to keeping opposing Calyrex-S at bay if Yveltal gets poisoned or paralyzed. With Hone Claws raising its Attack, Yveltal becomes a devastating wallbreaker. At +1, a Dark Aura-boosted Knock Off is something that almost no Pokemon will like switching into. The most common Knock Off switch-in in the metagame, Eternatus, has a 93.8% chance to be OHKOed by a +1 Life Orb-boosted Knock Off. Sucker Punch provides an invaluable priority option, letting Yveltal still check Calyrex-S in a pinch. Acrobatics hits Dark-resistant Pokemon such as Buzzwole and Zarude super effectively. In addition, it becomes very strong if Yveltal takes a Knock Off. An alternative option is Roost, which will greatly boost this set's longevity at the cost of coverage. The given Speed EVs beat fully-invested neutral nature base 90 Pokemon such as Kyogre, with the rest of the EVs dumped into Special Defense to better take hits from Calyrex-S. Life Orb will give Yveltal the most power, making +1 Knock Off on Eternatus a much more favorable roll to OHKO. Black Glasses is an alternative option that still makes Yveltal's Dark-type attacks hit incredibly hard while maintaining much more bulk over time. This set can fit on much fewer teams than most defensive sets due to it not reliably checking Calyrex-S. Therefore, alternative checks to Calyrex-S are a must as teammates. Zarude checks not only Calyrex-S but also Groudon and Zygarde, both of which can check this Yveltal set. Ho-Oh is useful for providing Defog support, which this set lacks, and also for pivoting Calyrex-S and Xerneas. Both aforementioned teammates appreciate Yveltal being able to lure and KO Eternatus. Blissey provides another Calyrex-S check as well as its valuable Aromatherapy and Wish support. For Black Glasses sets, Tyranitar has nice synergy, as the damage from sand can put Eternatus into OHKO range of a +1 Knock Off. Additionally, sand hindering Yveltal's ability to check Calyrex-S is not a problem because Tyranitar checks it much more safely. Xatu can be used to prevent Stealth Rock from being laid on the field. This Yveltal set is seen most commonly on hyper offense builds, as these teams otherwise have trouble dealing with Calyrex-S. Therefore, it's designed to keep up offensive momentum. By focusing mostly on Special Attack, Yveltal can use its powerful Oblivion Wing to heal and attack at the same time, minimizing the effect of Life Orb recoil. Taunt prevents opposing Yveltal and Ho-Oh from using Defog, keeping Sticky Web or other entry hazards up. Sucker Punch provides Yveltal with a strong physical attack, and its priority is very useful for keeping Calyrex-S at bay. Rock Slide is an alternative option for Yveltal to lure Ho-Oh into taking a Dark Pulse before KOing it. Rock Slide is also useful against opposing Yveltal. The given EV spread and nature let Yveltal outspeed and use Taunt against most opposing Yveltal. This Yveltal is a mainstay of hyper offense teams, so it will work great with suicide leads such as Slurpuff, Froslass, Galvantula, Shuckle, and Aerodactyl. Necrozma-DM makes a fantastic partner, as it switches into Eternatus and Xerneas, which wall Yveltal. Offensive Eternatus and Naganadel can absorb Toxic Spikes, which can be very threatening to hyper offense teams, and they also appreciate Yveltal KOing Ho-Oh with Rock Slide. Strong wallbreakers such as Groudon, Zekrom, and Marshadow are great teammates for putting the pressure on bulky teams. Additional Calyrex-S checks are appreciated, especially if you drop Sucker Punch. Marshadow, Urshifu-S, Grimmsnarl, and Hydreigon work well for this role. Choice Scarf Yveltal makes for a decent revenge killer while also providing some powerful and unique utility. For one, it provides quite possibly the most airtight defense against Sticky Web teams, as it is immune to the entry hazard and can use Defog without fear of being hit by Taunt. Secondly, Yveltal doesn't fear Trick from Choice Scarf Calyrex-S. Foul Play is a strong STAB option, letting Yveltal revenge kill Zekrom, Groudon, Marshadow, offensive Necrozma-DM, and Calyrex-S with ease. Thanks to Foul Play, Yveltal has the luxury of investing into its bulk instead of its attacking stats. While Roost syncs poorly with Choice Scarf, Yveltal often forces out Calyrex-S, giving it ample opportunities to heal off residual damage. Oblivion Wing is a less passive healing option that has the bonus of letting Yveltal lure in and KO common switch-ins such as Buzzwole and Tangrowth. However, its healing will be much less consistent. U-turn is a great option to gain momentum from obvious switches to Pokemon such as Eternatus and Xerneas, while Knock Off provides utility in removing items and is a secondary STAB option against Pokemon that take minimal damage from Foul Play such as Blissey. Finally, Defog ruins Sticky Web and other hyper offense teams that rely on entry hazards. The given EVs let Yveltal outspeed +1 positive nature base 90 Pokemon, such as Dragon Dance Zekrom. The rest of the EVs are dumped into HP and Special Defense to better handle Calyrex-S. Hasty should be chosen if you are running Oblivion Wing; otherwise, use Jolly. This Yveltal fits best on teams that lack a revenge killer, like Choice Scarf Calyrex-S or Shadow Sneak Marshadow, or want to win the Sticky Web matchup. Ho-Oh is a near-mandatory partner, as this Yveltal lacks Heavy-Duty Boots and thus cannot consistently use Defog against Stealth Rock users. Necrozma-DM and Blissey can both switch into Eternatus and Xerneas while providing Stealth Rock and paralysis support. Blissey can also function as a cleric and Wish passer. A Knock Off switch-in such as Eternatus, Buzzwole, Tangrowth, or Zarude is needed, as this set loses all revenge killing capability without Choice Scarf. This set is found almost exclusively on hyper offense teams as a way to check Calyrex-S and prevent Defog with a fast Taunt. Knock Off comfortably 2HKOes the vast majority of Eternatus sets and prevents them from recovering HP with Taunt. Since this set only uses Dark-type moves, Black Glasses is usually chosen to prevent Life Orb's recoil. Life Orb can have situational usefulness, such as allowing Yveltal to OHKO offensive Kyogre sets after Stealth Rock chip and almost always OHKO Marshadow. Maximum Speed investment is used to have the greatest chance of landing Taunt on opposing Yveltal, while 68 Special Defense EVs prevent a 2HKO from Choice Specs-boosted Astral Barrage. This set allows Yveltal to put much more pressure on Eternatus than a special set would, which is great for teammates like Rayquaza, Marshadow, Mewtwo, and Weavile, which can be threatened by a faster Eternatus. However, it comes at the cost of coverage. Lacking Oblivion Wing or Rock Slide means Yveltal can't punish opposing Yveltal well should they win the Speed tie and get a Defog off, while Ho-Oh can play mind games between using Sacred Fire or Defog. Thus, this set tends to be used more with Aerodactyl, Excadrill, and Froslass leads, since losing their entry hazards tends to not be as critical as it would be for a Sticky Web team. Since Xerneas easily comes in on this set, Necrozma-DM is a highly recommended teammate, and it also provides useful security against Galarian Darmanitan. Buzzwole walls this set, so teammates such as Meteor Beam Eternatus and Nasty Plot Calyrex-S work well with it. Eternatus as well as Zekrom are appreciated for being able to switch into Ho-Oh's Sacred Fire. Choice Band Yveltal makes for a surprise wallbreaking set thanks to its powerful Knock Off. It 2HKOes all Eternatus except physically defensive sets on the switch, preventing it from absorbing Knock Off, which means Yveltal can very effectively get rid of items on the opposing team. Dual Wingbeat is a strong secondary STAB option that will demolish typical walls to Yveltal such as Zarude, Buzzwole, and Tangrowth. Notably, it makes this Yveltal able to check SubSeed Calyrex-S. U-turn becomes quite a strong momentum option should this set be successful in KOing Eternatus. An alternative is Roost, which lets this set check Calyrex-S much more reliably. Sucker Punch becomes an incredibly powerful revenge killing option when boosted by both Choice Band and Dark Aura. As a bonus, Choice Band gives Calyrex-S one of its worst possible items should it decide to use Trick. The given Speed investment is used to beat either neutral or positive nature base 90 Speed Pokemon with full Speed investment, depending on Yveltal's nature. Should specially defensive Eternatus successfully heal after losing its item, Adamant Yveltal will still always 2HKO with Knock Off despite the power drop, while Jolly only gives a 53% chance to. However, Jolly is useful for Yveltal to outspeed positive nature base 90 Pokemon such as Zekrom and Choice Specs Kyogre. This Yveltal needs quite a bit of team support to function properly. Ho-Oh is greatly appreciated for providing Defog and checking Calyrex-S and Xerneas. Blissey is another Calyrex-S check that can provide entry hazard, paralysis, cleric, and Wish support. Pokemon that love Eternatus being gone or heavily damaged, such as Marshadow, Buzzwole, and Zarude, are synergistic teammates. Marshadow and Zarude can act as secondary checks to Calyrex-S, and Zarude and Buzzwole can deal with defensive Ground-types like Groudon, Zygarde, and Landorus-T. Xatu is another possible teammate that can help prevent Stealth Rock from being laid down. Oblivion Wing can be used on either the Specially Defensive or the Fast Utility set to let Yveltal lure in and KO Buzzwole or Tangrowth. An offensive set consisting of Knock Off, Sucker Punch, and U-turn with Black Glasses is an option in between the Specially Defensive and Hone Claws sets, but generally you are better off just using one of those two sets. Block can be used to trap opposing Pokemon to Toxic stall, such as opposing Yveltal. However, this is unreliable due to many Yveltal running U-turn or Taunt. Items such as Iron Ball can turn the tables on Calyrex-S using Trick, but these are gimmick options that are inferior to Heavy-Duty Boots.
Unfezant (SM competitive strategy): Unfezant may seem good on paper, boasting a solid Attack stat, decent Speed, and Super Luck, but that's where the positives end. Unfezant's lack of a good movepool makes it outclassed terribly by other Flying- and Normal-types like Dodrio and Kangaskhan, since they actually get access to strong STAB moves whereas Unfezant is stuck with worse options, especially 60-Base Power Flying moves like Pluck and Aerial Ace. Unfezant's Speed tier is good, but it is still outsped by common Choice Scarf users and offensive Pokemon such as Primeape and Lycanroc, which can easily dispose of it. Finally, Unfezant is often forced to run a support set that relies on the 60% Hypnosis due to its limited movepool. It's very unreliable in the metagame because of this and has no reason to be used over good offensive Flying-types such as Dodrio and Oricorio-G that possess a better matchup against bulky Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon like Regirock and Aggron. This set attempts to use Tailwind to outspeed opposing Pokemon and remove them from the battle, using Unfezant's niche of getting critical hits with Super Luck. Using Hypnosis and Tailwind allows Unfezant's teammates to get in safely and proceed to sweep. However, there isn't much going for this set because it relies too much on being able to land Hypnosis and gives setup opportunities to the plethora of good sweepers in the tier, like Lycanroc. As a support Pokemon, there is no reason to use Unfezant over Alolan Persian, which has access to Parting Shot, has a greater Speed tier, and gives a lot of defensive utility. Having a Stealth Rock weakness also hinders Unfezant's role as a support Pokemon, so without entry hazard removal, Unfezant has a very hard time pivoting with U-turn and setting up Tailwind multiple times over the game. This Pokemon takes up a teamslot that could be used by Dodrio, which is faster and has access to Swords Dance to break past its checks.
Unfezant (SS competitive strategy): Unfezant is a powerful wallbreaker, able to devastate teams without sturdy Flying-resistant Pokemon such as Rhydon or Coalossal with Choice Band-boosted STAB Brave Bird. U-turn enables Unfezant to pivot out against Stunfisk, Piloswine, and Klinklang, keeping momentum and chipping them. Quick Attack finishes off weakened faster foes like Jynx and Accelgor. Night Slash lets Unfezant OHKO Rotom. Facade instead becomes a very powerful STAB move if Unfezant gets statused. Super Luck gives it better chances to break through Double Dance Alcremie if it has gained a Defense boost prior. Unfezant fits well in offensive teams due to its great power, good Speed tier, and mediocre bulk. It struggles to break past sturdy Flying-resistant Pokemon like Klinklang and Coalossal and could potentially lose momentum against them. Water- and Electric-types pair particularly well, as Pokemon like Silvally-Water, Rotom, and Raichu can force them out with their STAB or coverage moves and bring Unfezant in safely with their pivot moves. In return, Unfezant can form a VoltTurn core with them and force out Grass-types such as Tangela and Gourgeist-S, which pressure them. Spikes users, such as Qwilfish and Coalossal, wear down its checks, many of which lack reliable recovery. Entry hazard control from the likes of Coalossal, Rotom, and Hattrem can ameliorate its Stealth Rock weakness. Special wallbreakers like Rotom, Exeggutor, and Jynx can overwhelm physical walls like Rhydon, Pyukumuku, and Miltank that Unfezant has difficulty breaking through. Other Flying-type wallbreakers, like Silvally-Flying and Rotom-S, can overwhelm their checks with repeated STAB Flying-type moves and coverage options. Unfezant also carves itself a niche on offensive teams as a fantastic revenge killer. It notably outspeeds and OHKOes two of the most prominent opposing Choice Scarf users, Rotom and Sawk, with Night Slash and Brave Bird, respectively. While Unfezant's main attack is its powerful STAB Brave Bird, it can also use U-turn to pivot out of unfavorable matchups such as Klinklang, Miltank, Rhydon, and Galarian Stunfisk. Facade provides Unfezant with a strong secondary STAB option once it becomes inflicted by status, as tends to happen, usually by a stray Toxic or Static paralyzation. Super Luck synergizes well with Night Slash and is useful for breaking through certain bulky setup sweepers like Acid Armor Alcremie and Kee Berry Uxie. Choice Scarf Unfezant fits best on bulky offense teams that can wear down the opposing team so it can clean up. Unfezant can create a VoltTurn core with teammates such as Kabutops and Rotom that collectively weakens its checks. Unfezant could also create a Flying-type spam core with Silvally-Flying, which notably nails Rhydon and Coalossal with Surf. Unfezant also appreciates offensive teammates such as Rapidash and Poliwrath that can help combat Flying-resistant foes. Hattrem is a common sight on Flying-type spam teams, bouncing back Stealth Rock and nailing Rock-types or Steel-types with either Giga Drain or Mystical Fire. Because of Brave Bird recoil and Stealth Rock, as well as Unfezant's tendency to switch in multiple times per game, entry hazard removal from teammates such as Defog Rotom and Gurdurr is much appreciated. A utility set with Heavy-Duty Boots, Roost, and Defog is feasible, as this set gives Unfezant reliable recovery and allows it to be an offensive entry hazard remover. However, the listed sets more naturally play to Unfezant's strengths, and this set struggles even more against hazard setters like Coalossal, Rhydon, and Qwilfish due to its reliance on Heavy-Duty Boots.
Zamazenta (SS competitive strategy): When one first sees Zamazenta's well-rounded stats, it may look like an excellent Choice item user; however, Zamazenta is unfortunately hindered by a poor typing and an even worse movepool. Despite having several serviceable coverage moves, Zamazenta can't piece them together in any threatening combination. Therefore, it can't consistently break through defensive cores using common Pokemon such as Ho-Oh, Necrozma-DM, and Zygarde-C. Zamazenta's STAB Close Combat also has low PP, which common physical walls such as Xerneas, Zygarde-C, Necrozma-DM, and Eternatus easily exploit. Despite Dauntless Shield and high stats, Zamazenta is paradoxically fragile and struggles to find defensive utility. Lacking reliable recovery or other support options, it cannot take repeated hits from common physical attackers such as Zekrom, Groudon, and Marshadow. Other Choice item users such as Dracovish, Calyrex-I, and Urshifu-S should be considered long before Zamazenta. The idea behind this set is pretty straightforward: do as much damage as possible each time Zamazenta can get in. Crunch beats Ghost-types, including Lunala and Calyrex-S, and Psychic Fangs offers a solid answer to Poison-types like Eternatus and Toxapex. The last moveslot depends on what the team needs: Wild Charge is used for Ho-Oh, Iron Head hits Xerneas hard, and Ice Fang pressures Zygarde-C. With great base 138 Speed, Zamazenta is only outsped by Jolly Marshadow, Calyrex-S, offensive Eternatus, and the rare Regieleki and Pheromosa. With a Jolly nature, Zamazenta outspeeds all variants of Marshadow and Eternatus, but an Adamant nature allows it to break through defensive Necrozma-DM more consistently, as well as always 2HKOing physically defensive Eternatus and Xerneas after Stealth Rock damage. While it does have Dauntless Shield, Zamazenta remains fragile, and it should be brought in with a slow pivot or on a non-damaging move. Also, despite it resisting Dark, you should be wary of switching Zamazenta in on Yveltal, since Knock Off cripples it. Because it struggles to break through physical walls, entry hazard support is invaluable for Zamazenta. Spikes is especially good, since premier physical walls such as Zygarde-C and Necrozma-DM resist Stealth Rock. Ferrothorn, Necrozma-DM, and Eternatus are all great hazard setters, being able to switch into threats that Zamazenta cannot handle like opposing Ferrothorn, Necrozma-DM and Choice Scarf Kyogre. Strong special attackers such as Kyogre, Calyrex-S, and Eternatus also help pressure Zygarde-C and Necrozma-DM. Eternatus, notably, can also spread poison to Zygarde-C. Finally, because it is very weak to status, clerics such as Blissey and Calyrex-S support Zamazenta well. The former is able to tank special hits that Zamazenta cannot handle, and the latter provides great specially offensive pressure.
Zamazenta (SV competitive strategy): Zamazenta is the tier's most consistent glue piece and wincon. Its natural bulk alongside a valuable typing, which can be boosted further by Dauntless Shield, let it take on many manner of offensive threats like Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, some Dragonite sets, and Great Tusk and Ogerpon-W if necessary. It boasts an excellent Speed tier, letting it outspeed most unboosted foes naturally and fulfill a niche as a team's main form of speed controls well. All of these combined with its ability to set up with Iron Defense + Body Press and the immense number of viable Tera types to beat its supposed counterplay lets it sweep teams easily, particularly making it a nightmare for offensive teams to deal with. It also possesses a nuclear Close Combat alongside incredible coverage options, letting it run all-out attacking offensive sets with a boosting item to become an exceptional wallbreaker, capable of 2HKOing even checks like Hatterene, Gholdengo, and Moltres with the proper move. A set with Heavy-Duty Boots can be used to blend in longevity without being too passive for bulkier playstyles, providing Zamazenta more ample opportunities to wear down the opposition slowly throughout the course of the game. However, Zamazenta dislikes chip damage from entry hazards when lacking Heavy-Duty Boots and adverse contact effects like Rocky Helmet from Hatterene, Corviknight, and Landorus-T, Static from Zapdos, and Flame Body from Moltres, especially as the latter two can render it useless. It also can't carry all the coverage and Tera type it needs, as the aforementioned Zapdos and Moltres as well as other foes like Gliscor, Toxapex, Clefable, and Hatterene capable of checking some of its sets. Bulky Ghost-types such as Pecharunt, Sinistcha, and Gholdengo are also huge hindrances, particularly for IronPress sets, with even common Pokemon like Kingambit, Darkrai, and Dragonite capable of running Tera Ghost viably as well to improve their matchup against it. This becomes a bigger issue with common teams running some of the aforementioned Pokemon together, which makes Zamazenta less likely to perform well. Additionally, common occurence of faster threats such as Dragapult, Booster Energy Iron Valiant, and Choice Scarf users such as Enamorus and Gholdengo threaten can limit, cripple, or revenge kill it. Zamazenta presents itself as both a defensive backbone and an offensive sweeper with the combination of Iron Defense and Body Press, utilizing its massive bulk and Speed to threaten physical attackers like Kingambit, Ogerpon-W, and Great Tusk. Crunch is required in order to deal damage to Ghost-types like Gholdengo, Dragapult, and Ceruledge; it also hits Galarian Slowking. The final moveslot can be customized to enhance Zamazenta's sweeping capabilities. Roar lets it phaze other phazers like Ting-Lu as well as other Iron Defense users like Corviknight and opposing Zamazenta. Roar also lets Zamazenta become a emergency check against potent sweepers like Ogerpon-W and Kingambit, with the added bonus of remove Booster Energy's boost from Iron Valiant and Bulk Up Great Tusk. It particularly works on entry hazard-stacking teams, letting Zamazenta wear down checks like Enamorus. Rest alongside Chesto Berry lets Zamazenta gain back its health instantly while removing any status inflicted beforehand, letting Zamazenta play much more aggressively against foes that rely on slowly wearing it down such as Toxic Gliscor. Substitute is used to avoid status like Cinderace's Will-O-Wisp; it also has the added bonus of blocking Garganacl's Salt Cure and sponging Future Sight from Galarian Slowking, making Zamazenta even harder to deal damage to. Heavy Slam is used to deal damage to Fairy-types like Clefable, Hatterene, and Galarian Weezing, which would otherwise be extremely difficult for Zamazenta to get past. Stone Edge is another option to deal heavy damage to Moltes, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T. Leftovers is used to let Zamazenta have solid passive recovery, making it hard to wear down quickly. The given EV spread allows Zamazenta to outspeed Adamant Dragonite after a Dragon Dance while putting the rest into its HP and Defense. Alternatively, a spread of 4 Atk / 252 Def / 252 Spe with a Jolly nature can be used alongside Roar to at worst Speed tie with opposing Zamazenta, letting it phaze them first, while also maximizing the power of Body Press. 124 Atk EVs can also be used to 2HKO offensive Gholdengo with Crunch. Tera Fire is used to be immune to burns from Dragapult and Moltres and gain resistances to Clefable's and Iron Valiant's Moonblasts, as well as Gholdengo's Make It Rain and Kyurem's Ice Beam. Tera Dark is used to power up Crunch, letting it 2HKO Galarian Slowking and 2HKO offensive Gholdengo, while also gaining an immunity to Deoxys-S's Psycho Boost and Galarian Slowking's Future Sight. Tera Steel is used alongside Heavy Slam to OHKO Enamorus and let Zamazenta resist attacks like Enamorus's Moonblast, Tornadus-T's Bleakwind Storm, and Iron Crown's Future Sight. Tera Electric can be used to let Zamazenta fully take advantage of Zapdos, as it becomes immune to Thunder Wave, while still resisting Gholdengo's Make It Rain and Tornadus-T's Bleakwind Storm. Zamazenta works primarily on bulky offense and hyper offense teams, as these teams appreciate both its defensive utility as well as its sweeping capabilities. Physical attackers like Dragonite, Ogerpon-W, and Kingambit are used to overwhelm Pecharunt and Galarian Weezing in both Ogerpon-W's and Dragonite's cases and Landorus-T in Kingambit's case. These teammates also notably provide their own defensive utility, with Dragonite checking Iron Moth and Ceruledge, Ogerpon-W being able to switch into Alomomola and Dondozo, and especially Kingambit handling Pecharunt and Gholdengo with its Ghost resistance. Other Dark-types like Hisuian Samurott and Darkrai help pressure Ghost- and Psychic-types for Zamazenta to sweep effectively. Zamazenta is greatly chipped by entry hazards, which can cut into its longevity even with Leftovers over longer games. Thus, Great Tusk and Iron Treads are greatly appreciated, and they also notably can threaten Pecharunt and Gholdengo. Iron Treads can handle strong special attackers like Zapdos and Raging Bolt much better, but Great Tusk's physical bulk helps Zamazenta preserve Dauntless Shield against greater threats such as Kingambit and Dragonite. Strong special attackers like Tornadus-T and Raging Bolt pair well to get rid of physical walls like Moltres, Clefable, and Dondozo, while Zamazenta threatens special tanks like Ting-Lu and Garganacl, with both the combination of Zamazenta and either Raging Bolt or Tornadus-T helping overwhelm Galarian Slowking and Primarina. On hyper offense, leads such as Glimmora, Deoxys-S, and Hisuian Samurott are able to set hazards for Zamazenta to 2HKO physical tanks or Fighting-resistant foes such as defensive Great Tusk and Primarina with a +2 Body Press after one layer of Spikes. On bulky offense, specially defensive tanks like Galarian Slowking and Ting-Lu are able to keep Zamazenta safe from strong special attackers like Deoxys-S and Iron Moth. Galarian Slowking can switch in and handle Fairy-types like Clefable while also threatening Poison-types like Pecharunt and Galarian Weezing; Zamazenta, in return, threatens out Dark-types like Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott. Ting-Lu can be a solid blanket check against Zapdos while setting its own hazards, wearing down Ghost-types with Ruination, and removing the need to phaze with Zamazenta with Whirlwind, while Zamazenta can threaten Kyurem, Weavile, and Ogerpon-W. With an outstanding Speed tier, fantastic natural bulk and the raw power to match, all-out attacking Heavy-Duty Boots Zamazenta is one of the tier's best natural forms of speed control for bulkier teamstyles while still being a great one-time check to some of the tier's most dominant physical threats like Kingambit and Ogerpon-W, especially with Dauntless Shield. A powerful Close Combat is backed up by Crunch to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Gholdengo, Dragapult, and Galarian Slowking. Stone Edge lets Zamazenta importantly deal massive damage to Moltres and Zapdos while ignoring their Flame Body and Static, along with securing a 2HKO on specially defensive Skeledirge. Heavy Slam hits Fairy-types like Hatterene, Clefable, and Iron Valiant, while Ice Fang is its strongest move against Gliscor and Landorus-T, coming with the additional benefit of comfortably 2HKOing Dragonite. Roar allows Zamazenta to phaze setup sweepers like Gliscor, Dragonite, and Terastallized Kingambit looking to use it as setup fodder and works well with the entry hazards that the balance teams it fits love to set. Psychic Fangs is a niche option that allows for Zamazenta to hit both Clodsire and Toxapex while improving its matchup against dual screens hyper offense teams. Heavy-Duty Boots allows for Zamazenta to switch in safely regardless of entry hazards and fully leverage its bulk, allowing for it to come in multiple times over the course of a game. An alternative spread of 88 HP / 252 Atk / 168 Spe, again with a Jolly nature, allows for Zamazenta to still outrun +1 Adamant Dragonite, Weavile, and Darkrai while improving its bulk. This HP investment notably allows for Zamazenta to live Enamorus's Moonblast, but the lack of Speed is detrimental for the matchup against opposing Zamazenta. Tera Dark boosts the power of Crunch, which allows Zamazenta to overwhelm would-be checks like Gholdengo and Pecharunt more easily. The Psychic immunity is also handy against revenge killers like Deoxys-S. Tera Steel is selected to flip Zamazenta's matchup against Fairy-, Psychic-, and Flying-type attacks from Pokemon like Iron Valiant, Enamorus, Galarian Slowking, and Tera Blast Flying Dragonite while also turning Heavy Slam into a powerful STAB option that cleanly OHKOes both Iron Valiant and Enamorus and providing Zamazenta with an immunity to Toxic from Galarian Slowking. Tera Stellar can instead be considered as an option that gives a one-time boost to all of its moves; this boost is strong enough to allow for Zamazenta to OHKO offensive Cinderace and a slightly chipped Ogerpon-W with Close Combat, while also giving it 2HKOs on both Raging Bolt and Pelipper with Close Combat and Stone Edge, respectively. This also gives Zamazenta a one-time nuke to break through weakened checks like Skarmory and Corviknight. However, this comes at the expense of Tera Stellar having no defensive value. Tera Fighting is a more niche option without any defensive merit that Zamazenta can opt to run, only boosting its Close Combat but crucially letting it 2HKO Skarmory after Stealth Rock. Zamazenta is a great fit for both balance and offense teams lacking speed control while giving these builds a check to Dark-types like Kingambit, Weavile, Meowscarada, and Darkrai. It appreciates entry hazard support to take full advantage of the switches it forces, pairing well with hazard setters such as Skarmory, Ting-Lu, and Gliscor on balance and Landorus-T and Glimmora on offense. Zamazenta's ability to check both Weavile and Meowscarada pairs particularly well with Pokemon like Gliscor and Landorus-T; Zamazenta's lack of recovery means that it struggles to switch in consistently on these Pokemon though. This makes bulky pivots like Galarian Slowking and Alomomola much appreciated to allow it safe entry onto the field, the former also providing a much-needed switch-in to Moonblast from Iron Valiant and Enamorus. Galarian Slowking in particular forms a potent combination with Zamazenta, as Zamazenta's Close Combat dissuades Dark- and Steel-types like Ting-Lu and Kingambit from switching into Galarian Slowking's Future Sight, while common switch-ins to Zamazenta such as Gliscor, Great Tusk, and Skarmory cannot safely come in and take both hits. Although Zamazenta's Speed tier is impressive by OU standards, it is still outsped by Dragapult, Deoxys-S, and Choice Scarf users like Enamorus and Gholdengo, which are able to threaten it with heavy damage; priority attackers that can revenge kill these faster threats are therefore much appreciated. Kingambit in particular is a strong partner that can switch into Dragapult and Gholdengo and threaten both of these targets along with Deoxys-S with Sucker Punch, while Weavile cannot freely switch into these threats but is able to provide an alternative form of speed control that can also threaten Dragapult and Choice Scarf Enamorus with Ice Shard. With Booster Energy, Iron Valiant is also able to outspeed and threaten Zamazenta with Moonblast; Gholdengo makes for a solid check to Iron Valiant, also being able to come in on Galarian Slowking and Clefable that would live a hit and threaten Zamazenta back. In turn, Gholdengo appreciates Zamazenta's ability to threaten many of its common checks like Kingambit, Weavile, and Meowscarada. Rillaboom also makes for a great partner to pick off Deoxys-S and Iron Valiant with Grassy Glide while weakening shared checks like Skarmory and Corviknight with Knock Off to allow for Zamazenta to freely attack them without taking Rocky Helmet damage. Rillaboom's Grassy Terrain is particularly useful for providing Zamazenta with recovery to help maintain its longevity; Alomomola can similarly help to alleviate this issue by providing Wish support while also appreciating Zamazenta's ability to check Ogerpon-W. Zamazenta is walled by Gliscor and Clodsire without the appropriate coverage, and so switch-ins to these Pokemon such as Gliscor itself and Clefable on balance and Hatterene on offense make valuable partners, along with powerful attackers like Weavile and Meowscarada to directly threaten them out. Zamazenta pressures some of the tier's common physical walls like Great Tusk, Landorus-T, and Skarmory; teammates like Kingambit and Weavile appreciate its ability to weaken these targets. Offensive Zamazenta is a powerful wallbreaker in OU, utilizing its high Speed and great bulk to revenge kill a variety of attackers such as Darkrai, Ogerpon-W, and Cinderace. Crunch hits Dark-weak foes such as Gholdengo, Galarian Slowking, and Pecharunt for large damage, being able to 2HKO the former two while 3HKOing the latter. Heavy Slam can hit Fairy-types such as Hatterene, Clefable, and Galarian Weezing that might otherwise be able to take Zamazenta's attacks and respond back. Stone Edge can hit Flying-types such as Zapdos and especially Moltres that Zamazenta may not want to use contact moves against for large damage, whereas Ice Fang hits Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Dragonite for 4x super effective damage while still hitting other Flying-types such as Zapdos for good damage. Life Orb allows Zamazenta to switch up moves while 2HKOing the likes of Great Tusk and Gholdengo with Close Combat and Crunch, respectively, whereas Choice Band allows Zamazenta to 3HKO Dondozo and OHKO Ogerpon-W with Close Combat while also incurring no recoil to do so. Expert Belt can be used to still allow Zamazenta to deal large damage to the likes of Galarian Slowking, Zapdos, and Hatterene while not having a negative secondary effect. However, it comes at the cost of doing less damage against walls such as Corviknight and Great Tusk, and it fails to get the 2HKO on defensive Gholdengo. A Jolly nature allows Zamazenta to outspeed the likes of Darkrai and Weavile, while an Adamant nature allows it to have a very high chance to OHKO Ting-Lu and Calm Mind Hatterene if it is running Choice Band. Tera Dark supercharges the power of Crunch, allowing Choice Band Zamazenta to 2HKO bulky Pecharunt and OHKO Dragapult. Tera Dark also gives Zamazenta an immunity to Deoxys-S's Psycho Boost and Galarian Slowking's Future Sight, as well as allowing it to retain its resistance to Kingambit's Sucker Punch. Tera Steel allows Zamazenta to OHKO Clefable with Heavy Slam while also resisting Moonblast and Psycho Boost from Iron Valiant and Deoxys-S. It also allows Zamazenta to become immune to Pecharunt's Malignant Chain, which forces Pecharunt variants without Foul Play to use Parting Shot more often, which Zamazenta's teammates can take advantage of. Tera Fighting is an option that drastically boosts the power of Close Combat, letting Life Orb sets to 2HKO Corviknight, Choice Band sets to 2HKO Alomomola, and, with an Adamant nature, even Dondozo with Leftovers. Zamazenta fits on a wide variety of teams, ranging from offense to balance. Ghost-types such as defensive Gholdengo, Pecharunt, and Sinistcha are a big pain for Zamazenta, as while they don't appreciate Crunch, they can switch in easily on any other of its moves. Therefore, Pokemon such as Kingambit, Darkrai, and Choice Scarf Gholdengo are great partners for it, as they can scare out these Ghost-types. Zamazenta can struggle quite a bit with entry hazards, so hazard removal such as Iron Treads, Great Tusk, Cinderace, and Corviknight can help alleviate this issue, with the latter two also helping get Zamazenta in with U-turn to start wallbreaking. Similarly, hazard support from options such as Ting-Lu and Landorus-T is heavily appreciated, as they can chip down Pokemon such as Corviknight and opposing Landorus-T that might try to answer Zamazenta. Steel-types such as Gholdengo and Heatran are great partners for Zamazenta, as they can scare out common Psychic- and Fairy-types that might threaten it out such as Galarian Slowking and Iron Valiant, while in return Zamazenta can help take on Pokemon such as Kingambit and Ting-Lu that they might struggle with. Pivot Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking, Alomomola, and Moltres are great partners, as they allow Zamazenta to get in safely without having to take damage. Additionally, Galarian Slowking can provide Future Sight support to help Zamazenta break defensive cores, Alomomola can keep Zamazenta healthy with Wish or help with Fairy-types such as Iron Valiant if it is running Assault Vest, and Moltres can help against common physical attackers such as Dragonite and Great Tusk that Zamazenta may not be able to immediately threaten. If Zamazenta is not running Ice Fang, then Gliscor and Landorus-T are an immense pain for it; therefore, Pokemon such as Weavile and Kyurem that can threaten them for massive damage are heavily appreciated, and they can take on Pokemon such as Zapdos and Dragonite that Zamazenta may struggle with. Zamazenta can have difficulty against bulkier teams that contain the likes of Alomomola and Pecharunt, as they can typically take its attacks well enough and threaten it back with solid damage; therefore, Pokemon such as Ogerpon-W, Gliscor, and Primarina can help break these bulkier teams. Ogerpon-W in particular can take advantage of Pokemon such as Dondozo and Alomomola that handle Zamazenta while also helping overwhelm shared checks such as Pecharunt and Zapdos. Tera Stellar can be a useful alternative on Life Orb sets, offering boosted flexibility, such as netting a surprise OHKO against Walking Wake, a 2HKO against Corviknight with Close Combat, and a 2HKO against defensive Gholdengo with Crunch. Tera Ghost allows Iron Defense Zamazenta to hard check opposing Iron Defense Zamazenta as well as allowing it both spinblocking capabilities and an immunity to Dragonite's Extreme Speed. Zamazenta is able to run a Reflect + Light Screen set rather effectively, taking advantage of its naturally high Speed and bulk. Dual screens Zamazenta is typically reserved for hyper offense teams. This set typically favors Steel Beam as one of its last two moveslots to quickly get in a teammate, but it can optionally run Close Combat or Heavy Slam for additional chip damage or Roar to prevent foes from setting up. Assault Vest Zamazenta behaves similarly to Heavy-Duty Boots Zamazenta and can be paired with a reliable spinner such as Great Tusk to more easily take special attacks from Enamorus, Iron Valiant, and Tornadus-T while minimizing its exposure to entry hazard chip damage. Clear Amulet + Howl is another set that allows Zamazenta to ignore Landorus-T's Intimidate while setting up with Howl. Clear Amulet has the added utility of blocking Parting Shot from Pecharunt and preventing the Speed drop from Sticky Web. Tera Steel gives Zamazenta an immunity to Pecharunt's Malignant Chain and can be coupled with Iron Head to hit Garganacl and Tera Fairy Dragonite harder. Protective Pads prevents Zamazenta from being chipped via Rocky Helmet from foes such as Corviknight and Pecharunt as well as Rough Skin from Garchomp, while protecting both its Speed and offensive potential from Static and Flame Body, respectively. Lum Berry offers a one-time cure to harmful status effects for sets that are lacking Rest.
Enamorus (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Enamorus can be a cleaner, form of speed control, and support Pokemon that gives a teammate a second chance at sweeping via Healing Wish. It can outspeed and revenge kill faster common threats such as Zamazenta, Dragapult, and Darkrai. Earth Power is mandatory coverage for hitting Fairy resistant foes: Steel-types like non-Air Balloon Gholdengo and Iron Treads, Fire-types like Cinderace, and Poison-types like Galarian Slowking and Clodsire. Mystical Fire lets Enamorus hit Steel-types immune to Earth Power, such as Skarmory, Corviknight, and Air Balloon Gholdengo. Alternatively, Tera Blast Stellar gives Enamorus a way to boost its Special Attack thanks to Contrary while simultaneously sniping opposing Terastallized Pokemon like Kingambit. Tera Blast Stellar hits everything in the tier neutrally, so it's able to snowball and clean weakened teams effectively at the cost of being very Tera-reliant. Healing Wish sacrifices Enamorus in order to fully heal a chipped sweeper like Kingambit or Raging Bolt so it can continue a sweep it couldn't finish previously, and should be used when Enamorus's speed is no longer needed to win the game. Tera Ground powers up Earth Power, notably letting it 2HKO specially defensive Galarian Slowking, and to flip Enamorus's typing against Raging Bolt's Thunderclap and Galarian Slowking's Sludge Bomb. Tera Fairy can also be used to further boost Moonblast's power, guaranteeing 2HKOs against Ting-Lu and neutral targets like specially defensive Gliscor. While the power from a Modest nature is preferred, Timid can be used instead to outspeed +1 Kyurem. Enamorus is best used as speed control on offensive teams that appreciate it giving teammates a potential second chance to sweep. Hazard removers like Court Change Cinderace and Great Tusk are excellent teammates, since Stealth Rock limits the amount of times Enamorus can come in and revenge kill. Cinderace can give hazards to the foe if they aren't on both sides of the field, its access to U-turn helps get Enamorus in safely, and its Pyro Balls force Gholdengo off the field so Enamorus can use Moonblast more freely. Great Tusk is a great teammate, because it threatens common Enamorus switch-ins like Galarian Slowking, Heatran, and Toxapex, and checks Kingambit, which can take a hit from Enamorus and retaliate back. Galarian Slowking is a pivot that greatly appreciates Enamorus's presence since it can deal with the Dark- and Ground-types that annoy it such as Ting-Lu, Great Tusk, and Darkrai. Enamorus appreciates Galarian Slowking's presence too, as its access to Future Sight is extremely useful for muscling through Poison-types like Toxapex and opposing Galarian Slowking and for bulky neutral targets like Gliscor. Galarian Slowking's access to status moves like Toxic and Thunder Wave allows it to incapacitate Pokemon that may give Enamorus a hard time like Iron Valiant, Walking Wake, and Iron Boulder. Chilly Reception is used to bring Enamorus onto the field safely, but also has the added benefit of changing the weather, giving rain Pokemon like Barraskewda, Raging Bolt, and Iron Treads a harder time. Another pivot Enamorus loves pairing with is Landorus-T, since it can bring Enamorus in safely with U-turn, threaten all the Poison- and Steel- types Enamorus struggles with, and can set Stealth Rock. Bulky physical setup sweepers such as Dragonite and Great Tusk work well with Enamorus since they're able to deal with special walls that can prevent it from making progress, mainly Galarian Slowking, and change the tide of a battle if they're able to get a second chance at sweeping thanks to Healing Wish. Physical Dark-types like Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott are more Pokemon that enjoy Enamorus's presence, since it can take on one of their best checks in Zamazenta, and Healing Wish can allow them to achieve a late-game sweep in case they had to come in earlier and sustain lots of damage. They're also able to blow past common Enamorus checks such as Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Clodsire. Hazard setters like Glimmora and Hisuian Samurott can help chip foes into range for Enamorus to break through their team, and Gholdengo is appreciated to block removal attempts and keep the hazards up for the duration of the game. Choice Specs Enamorus functions as an excellent wallbreaker by dishing out powerful STAB Moonblasts to foes like Dragonite, Great Tusk, and Zamazenta. Pokemon that do resist it still must be wary, as Enamorus has good coverage with Earth Power and Mystical Fire. Earth Power is used to threaten Poison- and Steel-type checks, such as Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Iron Crown. Mystical Fire threatens Air Balloon Gholdengo and Tinkaton, as well as Corviknight. Healing Wish is also a viable option that allows an offensive teammate to safely switch in and heal, giving it another chance to wallbreak and functioning best in situations where Enamorus has low health and wouldn’t be able to switch in again. Tera Blast is used with Tera Stellar to give Enamorus a powerful, unresisted attack that can snowball quickly thanks to Contrary. Tera Fairy is used on Enamorus to power up its Moonblast, which, with a Modest nature, can 2HKO Corviknight, non-Assault Vest Iron Crown, and bulky Gholdengo. It also gains a better matchup into Raging Bolt, Weavile, and Kyurem. Tera Ground gives Enamorus a chance to OHKO checks like non-Assault Vest Galarian Slowking and Assault Vest Iron Crown. It also has great defensive utility, letting Enamorus resist common Poison-type moves such as Galarian Slowking's Sludge Bomb and Iron Moth’s Sludge Wave while blanking Electric-type moves like Thunderclap from Raging Bolt. A Timid nature lets Enamorus outspeed Iron Crown and Kyurem. On the other hand, Modest gives it more power, allowing it to 2HKO Garganacl with Moonblast and OHKO Alomomola after Stealth Rock damage. Choice Specs Enamorus is most commonly found on offense teams as a wallbreaker. It benefits greatly from entry hazards set by Pokemon such as Great Tusk and Iron Treads, allowing it to pick up KOs it couldn't otherwise. For example, Modest Moonblast KOes Landorus-T after Stealth Rock. Great Tusk and Iron Treads also remove Stealth Rock, which Enamorus is weak to, while threatening its checks such as Galarian Slowking and Gholdengo, making them great teammates. Gholdengo can support Enamorus by handling Galarian Slowking and Iron Crown, while Enamorus threatens Hisuian Samurott and Ting-Lu. Enamorus functions well with Sticky Web support, being able to outspeed Ogerpon-W, Iron Moth, and Iron Valiant with it set. Because of this, Araquanid and Ribombee, the most popular Sticky Web setters, work well with Enamorus. When Terastallized, Enamorus can leverage its Contrary ability to get a Speed boost from Sticky Web after Cinderace uses Court Change, which Sticky Web teams often struggle with. Kingambit is a great partner because Enamorus destroys Kingambit's checks such as Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Dondozo, while Kingambit provides the same support by handling the likes of Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Blissey. Kingambit also benefits greatly from Healing Wish switching into threats like Gholdengo and Dragapult without worrying about getting worn down. Other Pokemon that are aided by Enamorus include Ogerpon-W and Zamazenta, which can deal with special walls like Moltres and Blissey. They have many of their checks threatened by Enamorus, such as Pecharunt, Dragonite, and opposing Zamazenta.
Diggersby (XY competitive strategy): Diggersby might not be especially fast, have impressive attack stats, or even possess fantastic bulk, but it has Huge Power. In combination with a good movepool, including two very strong STAB moves, Diggersby can be an efficient wallbreaker. As a Ground / Normal type, it can come in on to moves like Volt Switch from Zapdos or Thunder Wave from Pokemon like Clefable. This gives it the chance to set up or attack with its powerful moves. Even though Diggersby basically mainly uses its STAB moves, having access to Swords Dance and Quick Attack or using Fire Punch or Ice Punch allows it to be a fearsome threat as a setup sweeper or a Choice Band Wallbreaker. Furthermore, it can carry an Assault Vest to utilize this coverage. However, weaknesses to common Grass-, Ice-, and Fighting-type moves make it somewhat hard for Diggersby to effectively sweep. Lackluster Speed and bad bulk also hold Diggersby back, as it is easily revenge killed by anything that can survive a Quick Attack; fast Pokemon such as Mega Metagross make this flaw noticeable. Diggersby's weaknesses to priority moves such as Ice Shard, Aqua Jet, and Mach Punch are also annoying for it. Earthquake hits Pokemon that resist the Normal-type attacks like Steel-types Heatran and Excadrill or Rock-types Tyranitar or Mega Diancie. It also has the advantage of being a non-contact move, allowing Diggersby to deal damage against Pokemon like Garchomp, Ferrothorn, and Rocky Helmet Slowbro without receiving contact damage. Return gives good overall coverage and hits Ground-immune Pokemon like Zapdos, Rotom-W, and Landorus-T. Fire Punch hits Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory, which gives Diggersby great overall coverage against all sorts of defensive cores. U-turn can be used as an alternative, allowing Diggersby to become a powerful pivot and deal big chunks of damage to switch-ins. Quick Attack compensates for Diggersby's lack of Speed and lets it function as a late-game sweeper, picking off weakened Pokemon. Knock Off allows Diggersby to remove Leftovers and Rocky Helmet from targets like Slowbro and Landorus-T. Maximum investment in Attack combined with an Adamant nature allows Diggersby to fulfill its role as a physical wallbreaker. Huge Power and Choice Band provides power for Diggersby to at least 2HKO almost any Pokemon, especially crucial targets like Skarmory, Landorus-T, and Zapdos. 252 Speed EVs allow Diggersby to outspeed Bisharp, Zapdos, and non-Timid Heatran. A Jolly nature can be used to counter Timid Heatran and Adamant Excadrill outside of sand. Diggersby works best as a wallbreaker. It is advantageous to bring it in as early as possible to weaken defensive cores. Utilizing both of its immunities, it can come in on Electric-types from Zapdos or on Choice-locked Rotom-W or Gengar, but this requires careful consideration, since both Pokemon can potentially OHKO Diggersby with Hydro Pump and Focus Blast. Passive Pokemon like Chansey are easier targets, especially sets running Thunder Wave. When running U-turn, Diggersby should try to avoid using it against foes that punish contact moves like Garchomp and Ferrothorn. Diggersby fits well on balance, offensive, and VoltTurn teams. It appreciates pivots like Landorus-T, Rotom-W, and Mega Scizor, which allow it to enter the field safely. Pokemon that deal with Water-type threats like Keldeo and Azumarill are appreciated. Therefore, Amoonguss, Volcanion, and Serperior pair well with Diggersby. Garchomp makes a good partner as well, as it switches into priority moves like Mach Punch and takes on fast threats like Talonflame and Mega Pinsir. Weavile has good Synergy with Diggersby, as it is able pressure its defensive checks like Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Slowbro. Return deals massive neutral damage to most targets, especially after a Swords Dance boost. Silk Scarf helps it push through bulky foes like Zapdos, Slowbro, and Gliscor. Earthquake supplements Return, forming great coverage by targeting Steel- and Rock-types, such as Heatran, Excadrill, and Tyranitar. Fire Punch can be used over Earthquake to allow Diggersby to 2HKO Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Mega Scizor or OHKO them after a Swords Dance. Quick Attack gives Diggersby reliable priority, allowing it to pick off faster weakened foes or revenge kill frail threats like Mega Lopunny and Mega Alakazam. Swords Dance is the centerpiece of the set, turning Diggersby into a wallbreaking menace capable of 2HKOing nearly the entire metagame. The given EV spread maximizes Diggersby's Attack and Speed, allowing it to outspeed and threaten slower offensive Pokemon. An Adamant nature is chosen to push its offensive power even further, which is vital to secure KOs after a Swords Dance. Huge Power increases this set's effectiveness even more. Silk Scarf is the preferred item to boost Return and Quick Attack without locking Diggersby into one move like Choice Band would. However, Focus Sash can be used instead to ensure Diggersby survives at least one hit, giving it a relatively safe opportunity to set up with Swords Dance. Diggersby is best used as a mid- or late-game wallbreaker once faster threats and physical walls have been weakened or removed. It should not be sent in recklessly, as its low Speed and poor defenses make it vulnerable to faster attackers and priority moves. One should seek for opportunities to bring Diggersby in safely to give it a setup opportunity. Against offensive teams, Focus Sash can allow it to trade favorably by surviving a hit and retaliating with a boosted attack. Swords Dance should be used cautiously; burns can hinder any setup opportunities, and fast Pokemon like Mega Metagross and Choice Scarf Tyranitar or Pokemon with strong priority like Talonflame and Scizor can cut a sweep short. Diggersby appreciates teammates that can handle physical walls like Skarmory and Landorus-T. Special attackers like Magnezone, Keldeo, and Thundurus can help wear these threats down. Entry hazard support from Ferrothorn, Garchomp, or Heatran increases Diggersby's KO potential after a boost and makes Quick Attack more lethal. In return, Diggersby can pressure Defoggers and spinners with its powerful attacks. VoltTurn support from Pokemon like Rotom-W and Landorus-T can help pivot Diggersby into favorable positions. Additionally, Diggersby pairs well with wallbreakers like Mega Medicham and Bisharp, which can overwhelm common defensive cores and clear the way for a Diggersby sweep. Earthquake and Return provide good overall coverage. Earthquake can especially threaten Steel-types like Heatran and Excadrill and avoids contact with foes like Garchomp, Ferrothorn, and Rocky Helmet Slowbro, while Return provides great neutral coverage and hits Ground-immune Pokemon. Quick Attack allows Diggersby to provide chip damage against faster foes or pick them off when they are weakened. Fire Punch helps against Steel-types like Skarmory, Mega Scizor, and Ferrothorn. Knock Off can be used to remove Leftovers and Rocky Helmets from targets like Landorus-T, Clefable, and Slowbro. Alternatively, U-turn enables Diggersby to act as a pivot, preserving momentum and taking advantage of its ability to pressure switches. This set capitalizes on Assault Vest to patch up Diggersby's poor Special Defense, allowing it to take hits from special attackers like Mega Diancie, Thundurus, and Mega Alakazam. The EV spread is optimized for bulk and power: 136 HP and 92 Special Defense EVs provide extra resilience on the special side and enough overall bulk to withstand attacks from physical attackers like Excadrill and Mega Scizor, while 248 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature ensure Diggersby hits hard as hard as possible. 32 Speed EVs let it outspeed slower foes like Skarmory, Mega Scizor, and non-Timid Heatran. Assault Vest Diggersby functions best as a tanky pivot or mid-game offensive presence. It can be brought in on predicted special moves or against passive Pokemon that can't threaten it immediately. The Assault Vest lets Diggersby survive attacks that it usually would not like a Scald from Keldeo and any move from Mega Charizard Y, which can result in a surprise kill against the likes of Mega Alakazam and Mega Diancie. Furthermore, it can switch into resisted attacks and pivot out using U-turn, providing momentum for the team. This set is best used on offensive teams that want to keep up pressure. Diggersby can switch into certain attacks and threaten the foe back or even function as a wallbreaker while being a specially defensive pivot. Pokemon that can benefit from the holes Diggersby creates, like Bisharp, Keldeo, and Mega Scizor. Furthermore, hyper offensive teams that are in need of an Electric-immune teammate are potential fits, and Diggersby can fulfil its role there as a pivot-wallbreaker hybrid. Other options include Life Orb Diggersby, which has the benefits of hitting extra hard while not being Choice-locked and being able to take advantage of Swords Dance. Due to its low Speed, this option is more difficult to properly make work. Choice Scarf Diggersby can be an option to surprise opponents with the high Speed, catching them off Guard. It also can function as a late-game sweeper, but is it limited by Diggersby's weakness against priority moves and because it gets outspeed by Mega Alakazam and Mega Aerodactyl.
Diggersby (SM competitive strategy): Diggersby isn't necessarily a bad wallbreaker; in fact, it's actually quite difficult to switch into. Its main issue, however, is that it faces immense competition from other wallbreakers such as Mega Medicham, Mega Mawile, and even Hoopa-U. Diggersby's below average Speed stat and subpar defensive typing leave it very vulnerable to common offensive threats such as Greninja, Kartana, and Kyurem-B. Its mediocre bulk is also problematic because anything it fails to OHKO will most likely deal a heavy amount of damage to it, so it will often be dead weight against offensive teams. Overall, Diggersby has almost nothing to distinguish itself from the plethora of other wallbreakers in the tier, and there's just very little reason to use it over something else. Quick Attack lets Diggersby threaten weakened offensive threats such as Tornadus-T and Greninja. Spikes provide great team support and help Diggersby wallbreak more effectively throughout the game by softening up Pokemon that may try to pivot into it, such as Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Tangrowth. Diggersby can force a decent amount of switches against bulkier teams, so it should have plenty of opportunities to lay Spikes down, giving it a slight niche over other wallbreakers. Alternatively, Fire Punch provides valuable coverage against Celesteela which resists both of its STAB moves, as well as OHKOes Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Kartana. Foul Play is boosted by Huge Power, so it's also an option for dealing solid neutral damage to most of the tier, although it provides no real coverage.
Diggersby (SS competitive strategy): Diggersby is one of the best revenge killers in UU due to its potent STAB combination backed by the deadly Huge Power. With a Choice Scarf, Diggersby can easily outspeed and KO common fast threats like Azelf, Cobalion, Crobat, and Zygarde-10%, as well as setup sweepers like Gyarados and Necrozma. U-turn indirectly enhances Diggersby's revenge killing capabilities, allowing it to pivot on Pokemon it cannot break through like Skarmory, Hippowdon, and Tangrowth and bring in powerful teammates that can take them on, like three attacks Primarina and Choice Specs Hydreigon. Moreover, Diggersby's resistance to Stealth Rock gives it many opportunities to wallbreak and pressure frail threats like Azelf throughout a game. Diggersby also can run a Swords Dance wallbreaker set to become nearly impossible to counter, OHKOing physical walls like Amoonguss, Celesteela, and Hippowdon at +2 while picking off faster threats like Thundurus-T and Keldeo with Quick Attack. However, Diggersby is quite prediction reliant, hating being locked into any move because common foes like Salamence, Skarmory, Scizor, and Cobalion are immune to Ground or resist Normal. Diggersby also offers next to zero defensive utility bar deterring Volt Switch from Thundurus-T and checking Nihilego in an emergency, as it is weak to common types like Grass, Fighting, and Water and frail. This poor defensive profile also limits setup opportunities for its Swords Dance set. Additionally, it gets worn down by Rocky Helmet from threats like Amoonguss, Skarmory, and Hippowdon. Choice Scarf Diggersby fails to revenge kill boosting sweepers like Dragon Dance Salamence, and other Choice Scarf users like Hydreigon outspeed it. Diggersby is also very vulnerable to common priority attacks from Mamoswine, Conkeldurr, Scizor, and Azumarill, which can pick it off with slight chip damage. Diggersby's STAB combination is exceptionally powerful in UU, covering many common threats like Nihilego, Thundurus-T, and Cobalion. Defensive Salamence takes almost 40% even after Intimidate from Body Slam. Additionally, the move's paralysis chance can badly hinder switch-ins like Cobalion and Scizor. U-turn gains momentum off of switch-ins like Skarmory, Hippowdon, and Tangrowth. Knock Off removes Rocky Helmet from Skarmory and Amoonguss, keeping Diggersby from getting worn down by attacking, as well as crippling otherwise great answers in Mandibuzz, Celesteela, and Salamence by removing their items. Alternatively, Fire Punch allows Diggersby to break past Celesteela and Tangrowth with good prediction and cleanly OHKO Scizor. Diggersby can run Spikes in the fourth moveslot thanks to it forcing switches against common foes like Nihilego, helping wear down threats like Hippowdon and Tangrowth, but being locked into the move creates opportunities for dangerous sweepers like Swords Dance Cobalion and Dragon Dance Gyarados. A Jolly nature is needed to outspeed Crobat and Adamant Dragon Dance Gyarados, threats Diggersby is tasked with revenge killing. However, Adamant can be used if Diggersby's team has insurance against those threats to KO foes like Keldeo more easily. Choice Scarf Diggersby best fits on VoltTurn, bulky offense, and balance teams that appreciate its revenge killing capabilities. Additional pivots like Zarude, Thundurus-T, and Slowking form potent momentum cores with Diggersby, bringing it into the likes of Cobalion, Nihilego, and opposing Zarude while threatening switch-ins to Diggersby like Hippowdon, Scizor, and Skarmory. Rotom-W is another exceptional pivot that can handle Mamoswine in addition to threats like Celesteela, Hippowdon, and Moltres. It can also use Defog to stop Spikes from wearing Diggersby down. Wallbreakers like Choice Specs Hydreigon and Keldeo pressure switch-ins to Diggersby like Mandibuzz, Hippowdon, and Skarmory. Body Slam's paralysis chance helps them deal with Salamence more easily and not risk getting outsped by Cobalion. Stealth Rock support from the likes of Nihilego and Cobalion can wear down Celesteela and Tangrowth for Diggersby. They both overwhelm Hippowdon and the aforementioned Celesteela too, with Nihilego also taking on common Ground-immune Pokemon like Salamence, Skarmory, and Moltres. Defensive Grass-types like Tangrowth and Amoonguss can cover threatening Water-types like Keldeo, Rotom-W, and Primarina. Since Rocky Helmet damage is detrimental to Diggersby's longevity, Knock Off users like Scizor and the aforementioned Tangrowth are good to bait in Amoonguss, Skarmory, and Cobalion and remove their item. They can also heal off the resulting chip damage, unlike Diggersby, and they free up its Knock Off moveslot for Fire Punch as well. Swords Dance skyrockets Diggersby's Attack to absurd levels, letting it break past nearly everything in the tier. A +2 Quick Attack wipes out faster threats like Thundurus-T, Azelf, Zarude, and Keldeo, though the latter two do need to be chipped a bit. Fire Punch allows Diggersby to break past Celesteela, Skarmory, and Tangrowth. Alternatively, Mega Kick is Diggersby's best option to hit Mandibuzz and punishes potential switch-ins like Rotom-W and Salamence. It still covers Tangrowth and even Celesteela, the latter being 2HKOed by it, but Diggersby misses out on breaking past Skarmory, and the move comes with shaky accuracy. A Life Orb maximizes Diggersby's wallbreaking potential, letting it OHKO Hippowdon with +2 Earthquake. However, Silk Scarf can be used to boost the power of Quick Attack and Mega Kick without wearing Diggersby down. Because Swords Dance Diggersby tends to be an all-or-nothing sweeper, this set mostly fits on heavy offense teams that give it ample opportunities to wallbreak, though it can work as a late-game cleaner on bulky offense teams as well. Entry hazard setters like Excadrill, Krookodile, and Scolipede provide valuable support to wear down threats like Hippowdon, Amoonguss, and Keldeo for Diggersby. Sticky Web support from Ribombee can offset Diggersby's poor Speed, letting it pick off threats like Cobalion that would normally revenge kill it. Other sweepers like Nasty Plot Thundurus-T and Meteor Beam Nihilego can break past Pokemon like Celesteela, Mandibuzz, and Rotom-W that trouble Diggersby. They can also help overwhelm Hippowdon and keep threats that discourage setup, like Amoonguss, off the field. Autotomize Celesteela takes advantage of Diggersby drawing in Zarude and Skarmory, using them as setup bait, and it lures in Chansey for Diggersby to come in on, as Chansey is one of the few Pokemon Diggersby can reliably boost against. Azelf outspeeds and wipes out faster threats like Keldeo and Cobalion, appreciating Diggersby beating down Slowking and Mandibuzz to the point where Azelf can clean late-game. On more bulky offense teams, paralysis spreaders like Thunder Wave Togekiss and Stun Spore Amoonguss can be valuable to cripple offensive checks to Diggersby like Cobalion. Magneton can trap and remove hindrances to Diggersby like Celesteela, Skarmory, and Scizor, allowing it to drop Fire Punch and run Mega Kick for Mandibuzz. Choice Band turns Diggersby into a devastating wallbreaker with immediate power, using its STAB combination to hit most of the tier for heavy damage while using coverage options in U-turn to wear down Rotom-W and Fire Punch to get past Skarmory and Celesteela. This set works exceptionally well on paralysis spam offense teams, which neuter faster threats like Salamence and Cobalion. However, this set is very slow and prediction reliant, being prey to top threats like Zarude and Keldeo, as well as to foes like Slowking and Hippowdon that are bulky enough to scout a hit. Agility + three Attacks offsets Diggersby's biggest issue in its base Speed, letting it outspeed and KO fast threats like Cobalion and Choice Scarf Hydreigon. However, like the Swords Dance set, Agility Diggersby has limited opportunities to reliably boost; it must rely on forcing out a chipped threat to get a setup chance. Its inability to boost its Attack also keeps it from breaking past Tangrowth and Hippowdon.
Dracovish (SS competitive strategy): At first glance, Dracovish's mediocre stats are unimpressive at best when compared to other Ubers Pokemon. However, it has one of the strongest moves in the game, Fishious Rend, and an incredible ability in Strong Jaw. These factors combined make it a potentially dangerous wallbreaker. Dracovish preys on common defensive staples such as Necrozma-DM, Blissey, and Ho-Oh with Fishious Rend. However, its weakness to status and lackluster defensive stats make it difficult to switch in and give it mediocre defensive utility, only really being able to check Kyogre and offensive Necrozma-DM in a pinch. This means that while Dracovish can be a scary wallbreaker against slower teams, it offers little utility against faster, more offensive teams. Finally, without any recovery, Dracovish is vulnerable to getting worn down quickly and needs to be played carefully to make use of its capability throughout the game. Fishious Rend is the primary source of Dracovish's power and OHKOes common defensive Pokemon such as specially defensive Necrozma-DM with Choice Band. Choice Band-boosted Outrage OHKOes specially defensive Eternatus, which can switch into Fishous Rend. Dracovish can choose to run Dragon Rush over Outrage on the Choice Band set, giving it a favorable chance to OHKO specially defensive Eternatus without locking it into Outrage. Psychic Fangs serves as a solid mid-ground attack, dealing heavy damage to Eternatus without fear of being locked into a move or missing. Crunch outdamages Roost on defensive Lunala, which Fishious Rend is unable to do, and prevents Shedinja from walling Dracovish. Strong Jaw gives a 1.5x damage boost to Fishious Rend, Crunch, and Psychic Fangs. Choice Band allows Dracovish to crush bulky teams and gives it OHKO potential against many threats, while Choice Scarf lets it outspeed defensive Pokemon such as Yveltal and defensive Eternatus, maintain Fishious Rend's power, and gain more opportunities to clean faster teams. An Adamant nature is crucial for certain damage rolls against its common checks such as Eternatus. On the other hand, a Jolly nature allows Dracovish to outspeed certain threats such as fast Eternatus and Jolly Marshadow with Choice Scarf or Sticky Web support. Dracovish fits on teams that appreciate its wallbreaking abilities and can offer the necessary support for it to thrive. Kyogre's rain boosts Dracovish's power and reduces the need to predict, as even switch-ins like Eternatus cannot safely take Fishous Rend in rain; in return, Kyogre appreciates Dracovish taking advantage of Blissey and helping to overwhelm Water-resistant foes such as Eternatus and Ferrothorn. Pivot support is crucial for Dracovish; while it has decent bulk and a defensive typing, its lack of recovery and weakness to status make pivot support crucial to give Dracovish opportunities to wallbreak. As such, pivots like Teleport Blissey, U-turn Yveltal, and U-turn Landorus-T are great teammates for Dracovish. Clerics such as Calyrex-S, defensive Xerneas, and Blissey give Dracovish more leeway in absorbing status. Choice Band Dracovish should be used as a wallbreaker, specializing in defeating slower, bulkier teams. Therefore, a team with Choice Band Dracovish should be built to allow it multiple opportunities to break down defensive cores, and the player must use smart double switches and pivots to get in Dracovish against a Pokemon it is able to threaten. Due to Choice Band Dracovish's poor defensive profile and low Speed, it finds itself struggling to keep pace with faster, more offensive teams. As such, it appreciates fast teammates that can outspeed and beat offense teams, such as Choice Scarf Calyrex-S. Meanwhile, Choice Scarf Dracovish is better utilized as a strong cleaner. Lacking Choice Band's OHKO potential against bulkier teams, Choice Scarf Dracovish in particular appreciates other offensive teammates like Marshadow, Dragon Dance Zygarde, and Choice Specs Calyrex-S to break down defensive cores and entry hazard support, such as Spikes from Ferrothorn, to compensate the lack of power. A Sand Rush set running Earthquake instead of Psychic Fangs and Low Kick over Crunch can be used on dedicated sand teams to bypass Dracovish's low Speed. However, Sand Rush Dracovish requires a lot of support, and Dracovish on sand teams faces competition from Excadrill, making this set rather niche. Possible coverage options such as Low Kick and Ice Fang seem appealing at first, but Fishious Rend is nearly as strong as Low Kick and Ice Fang against targets such as Ferrothorn and Zarude, respectively.
Zarude (SS competitive strategy): Zarude's great Speed alongside U-turn allows it to be an excellent pivot and revenge killer. Its high Speed enables it to outspeed common Pokemon such as Nihilego, Thundurus-T, and Excadrill, and its good bulk and defensive typing lets it check many dangerous threats such as Rotom-W, Slowking, and Hippowdon, while also discouraging Zygarde-10% from spamming Thousand Arrows. The ability to heal status conditions and HP with Jungle Healing can allow Zarude to consistently pivot around defensive Pokemon such as Swampert and Hippowdon. Zarude's ability to synergize with other common pivots like Thundurus-T, Slowking, and Moltres has made it one of the defining components of offensive teams. However, it often struggles to break defensive Pokemon, such as Skarmory, Tangrowth, and Salamence, due to them resisting Power Whip and taking minimal damage from Darkest Lariat. Many teams naturally fit multiple Grass-type resistant Pokemon such as Mandibuzz, Cobalion, and Moltres, leaving Zarude with limited opportunities to use its strongest STAB attack. If it is running Choice Scarf, Zarude can risk being locked into an undesirable move, losing momentum. Flame Body from Moltres and Rocky Helmet from Amoonguss and Cobalion can punish U-turn, forcing momentum to be sacrificed to use Jungle Healing. Zarude's inability to answer threats like Keldeo and Primarina as a Grass-type can strain building at times, limiting its flexibility compared to Tangrowth and Amoonguss. Zarude's STAB combination allows it to threaten many tier staples like Primarina, Excadrill, and Slowking. U-turn grabs momentum on usual switch-ins such as Celesteela and Salamence. Jungle Healing allows Zarude to remove status conditions from moves such as Toxic from Hippowdon and Will-O-Wisp from Rotom-W, while restoring 25% of its health. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Zarude to not worry about entry hazards, letting it constantly pivot throughout the game. Jolly is the required nature on the set so that Zarude can outspeed Nihilego and Thundurus-T. Zarude is commonly seen on balance and bulky offense due to the easy pivoting provided by Heavy-Duty Boots and its ability to act as a status sponge against Toxic from Hippowdon and Will-O-Wisp from Rotom-W. Secondary pivots like Moltres, Thundurus-T, and Swampert all form potent pivoting cores with Zarude. Moltres appreciates Zarude luring in Grass- and Steel-types like Amoonguss, Scizor, and Skarmory, while Thundurus-T heavily pressures Celesteela and Moltres. Swampert can pivot into attacks from Celesteela and set entry hazards for Zarude to soften up Pokemon like Amoonguss with Stealth Rock. Other entry hazard setters like Cobalion and Excadrill also set Stealth Rock and appreciate Zarude dealing with Water-types such as Slowking and Swampert, while Zarude appreciates them dealing with Scizor and Rotom-H. Slowking and Celesteela provide a strong defensive backbone to support Zarude, checking threats like Azelf, Salamence, and Cobalion that hinder it. Zygarde-10%, Mamoswine, and Azelf are wallbreakers that appreciate Zarude bringing them in on Salamence, Tangrowth, and Amoonguss, as they often have trouble switching in safely due to their frailty. Zarude's high Speed allows it to be a great user of Choice Scarf that can revenge kill Pokemon such as Keldeo and Azelf in addition to boosted sweepers such as Gyarados and Dragon Dance Necrozma. Power Whip OHKOes Lycanroc-D and Keldeo. Darkest Lariat is Zarude's strongest Dark-type STAB move and can hit Jirachi and Azelf for huge damage. U-turn allows Zarude to pivot out on potential switch-ins such as Tangrowth and Salamence, allowing it to gain momentum. Close Combat is able to hit Cobalion, an otherwise easy switch-in, for heavy damage. Jungle Healing can get rid of status conditions such as a burn from Moltres's Flame Body and Slowking's Scald while regaining HP so that Zarude can be used in the long run in a battle but it is not ideal to lock into. It also allows Zarude to act as a reliable status sponge if it takes a Knock Off when Choice Scarf is not needed. Choice Scarf Zarude is a solid pivot and revenge killer on bulky offense teams. It appreciates additional pivots such as Moltres, Slowking, and Thundurus-T that can form momentum cores and pivot out of unfavorable matchups. For example, Moltres can bring Zarude in on Water-types such as Slowking and Swampert. Entry hazard control from the likes of Salamence, Excadrill, and Mandibuzz allows Zarude to consistently pivot without worrying about hazard damage. They can also check threats like Scizor and Tapu Bulu. Thundurus-T, Keldeo, and Nidoking are wallbreakers that appreciate Zarude's pivot support and its ability to check Pokemon such as Swampert, with the wallbreakers KOing Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Skarmory in return. Swampert is an entry hazard setter that appreciates Zarude dealing with Keldeo, Gyarados, and Hydreigon for it, while Swampert can set Stealth Rock in return and also help deal with Pokemon like Salamence. Primarina and Azumarill can help deal with some of Zarude's checks such as Salamence. Rock Slide allows Zarude to OHKO Moltres while also dealing good damage to Salamence. Choice Band allows Zarude to function as a powerful wallbreaker, suprising usual switch-ins like Crobat and Amoonguss with a 2HKO. However, the increased prediction-reliance is problematic, and it still struggles to break through Skarmory and Mandibuzz. A Bulk Up set with Jungle Healing, Acrobatics, and Darkest Lariat allows Zarude to deal heavy damage and potentially tank super effective hits. Taunt is an option that can completely shut down Chansey's recovery and prevent Roost from Salamence, but Zarude would have to give up Jungle Healing or valuable coverage.
Cyclizar (SV competitive strategy): Cyclizar rides in as one of the defining Pokemon of the RU metagame. Its excellent Speed tier, access to Rapid Spin, and ability Regenerator make it the premier entry hazard removal option. It can also break out its utility toolbox, threatening to remove items from common switch-ins like Jirachi and Slowbro with Knock Off; phaze setup Pokemon like Suicune, Cresselia, and Armarouge with Dragon Tail; or pivot into a teammate like Crawdaunt or Entei with U-turn to keep up momentum. U-turn can allow setup sweepers like Armarouge and Reuniclus to freely switch in and start stacking up boosts. Cyclizar is often paired with other Regenerator Pokemon like Slowbro and Amoonguss to form Regenerator cores that can be difficult to break, especially when Cyclizar is removing entry hazards. It can further offer teams a bulky pivot when it straps on the Assault Vest, allowing it to take hits from special wallbreakers like Armarouge, Basculegion-F, and Gengar. Cyclizar needs to be careful, however, of Choice Scarf users like Terrakion and Mienshao that are looking to jam up Cyclizar's wheels and OHKO it with STAB Close Combat. Assault Vest Cyclizar can safely switch into most special attackers and provide opportunities for its teammates to enter the game thanks to U-turn. Rapid Spin clears entry hazards while also granting Cyclizar a boost to Speed, which helps it outspeed most Choice Scarf users in the tier like Gardevoir and Gengar. It also gives even a paralyzed Cyclizar the opportunity to pivot out of slower opponents like Empoleon and Hippowdon. Knock Off can hit the tier's Pyschic-types such as Reuniclus and Slowbro for decent damage while also threatening the frail Ghost-types like Gengar and Basculegion-F lacking Weakness Policy. Draco Meteor can be used to hit physical walls like Hippowdon and Slowbro. Dragon Tail is great at forcing opposing setup sweepers like Cresselia and Slowbro out. Facade can take advantage of status like burn or paralysis that Cyclizar may be inflicted by throughout the course of a game from opposing Reuniclus, Slowbro, and Jirachi. Assault Vest helps with its otherwise low natural bulk, which is also helped significantly by Regenerator recovery. Timid maximum Speed Cyclizar is faster than the majority of the tier, and the bulk provided allows it to take Ice Beam or Sludge Wave twice from threats such as Basculegion-F and Gengar, respectively. Tera Fairy flips Cyclizar's weakness to Dragon-type moves into an immunity and gives a resistance to Fighting-type moves, helping against opposing Cyclizar, Noivern, and Mienshao. Tera Steel makes Cyclizar resistant to Fairy- and Ice-type moves from the likes of Gardevoir and Empoleon, respectively. Tera Ghost makes it immune to Normal-type, allowing it to stop Rapid Spin attempts from opposing Cyclizar, while adding an immunity to Fighting-type attacks as well. Assault Vest Cyclizar can reliably slot onto balance or bulky offense teams as the main form of entry hazard removal while also providing item removal and pivoting. It can also be used on stall teams, though these structures often want another hazard removal option such as Defog Talonflame to reliably maintain hazard control. Cyclizar pairs well with other Regenerator Pokemon such as Amoonguss, Mienshao, and Slowbro, creating teams that are very difficult to break offensively and can provide pressure through status, hazard chip, and gradual damage. Strong offensive teammates like Crawdaunt, Mamoswine, and Gallade appreciate Cyclizar giving them free entry points. While Cyclizar can often keep hazards off the field, it is advised to still run hazard-resilient or Heavy-Duty Boots teammates, such as Amoonguss, Hisuian Goodra, and Mienshao, since Cyclizar may struggle against teams with Ghost-types like Palossand or Mimikyu. Assault Vest Cyclizar can struggle to retain HP against hazard-stacking archetypes, being unable to remove hazards against teams utilizing Tera Ghost on their hazard setters. To mitigate this dynamic, Cyclizar relies on pivoting into teammates who can apply offensive pressure to deny hazards from being established, like Basculegion-F, Gardevoir, and Entei. While usually overshadowed by the more prevalent Assault Vest set, running Heavy-Duty Boots on Cyclizar can offer meaningful benefits, allowing access to utility moves, while also making Regenerator more beneficial without needing to worry about the passive chip that comes with its usage as a spinner. Cyclizar is a master at providing utility for a team, boasting Knock Off to remove items from foes for other members of a team to take advantage of, with Heavy-Duty Boots users like Umbreon or Slowbro being great examples of Knock Off's usefulness over the course of a game. U-turn provides a way for Cyclizar to get out of sketchy matchups, being able to use the move safely against most of the tier with its phenomenal Speed stat. Taunt can shut down recovery or setup from foes that believe they can take advantage of the presumed passivity of Cyclizar, such as Hippowdon and Bisharp. Double-Edge can be slotted over Taunt if more damage is desired from Cyclizar, providing a harder-hitting STAB move than Rapid Spin, and its recoil is also somewhat negated with the HP gained back from Regenerator. Tera Ghost provides a last ditch-effort of escape against Fighting-types, one of Cyclizar's sketchier matchups, which is especially prevalent with the large amount of Fighting-type moves present in the tier, like Close Combat from various abusers including Mienshao and Terrakion; however, Cyclizar is generally the last thing you want to Terastalize unless in truly dire straits, as Terastallization is usually far more effective and useful on other members of a team. Tera Ghost can also deny opposing spinners from removing entry hazards, keeping pressure on opposing teams throughout a game and additionally providing momentum through a wasted Rapid Spin. Heavy-Duty Boots Cyclizar fits on almost all team structures, with the main exception being hyper offense, as its role as a spinner with access to Regenerator makes it extremely reliable at removing entry hazards throughout the course of a game. To get the best use out of Cyclizar's utility, pairing it up with a Stealth Rock setter is extremely important, as Cyclizar's Knock Off makes opposing teams weaker to hazards; this can either be with allies like Hippowdon, or it can be run with Palossand on teams dedicated to hazard stacking. Additionally, pairing Cyclizar up with offensive options that can take advantage of the momentum that U-turn provides, with notable wallbreakers including Choice Band Terrakion and Basculegion-F being perfect teammates. Cyclizar is somewhat frail by itself, so pairing it up with defensive presences like the aforementioned physically defensive Stealth Rock setters, along with more specially defensive options like Empoleon, creates strong defensive cores that can be difficult to break and can wear down teams through a war of attrition. These defensive cores can be furthered with Regenerator cores, constantly keeping teammates healthy throughout a match, with notable teammates being Amoonguss, Slowbro, Mienshao, and Reuniclus. Pairing Cyclizar up with multiple Heavy-Duty Boots users is also wise, as it can have problems against dedicated spinblockers, with Palossand on hazard-stacking teams and Mimikyu on hyper offense builds. Body Slam is an option as Cyclizar's STAB move so it can fish for paralysis instead of doing more damage with Draco Meteor or Double-Edge. On teams that may have a hard time dealing with Gastrodon and Swampert, Cyclizar can run Power Whip to threaten a 2HKO on both of them. Overheat is an option for Cyclizars looking to supercharge its matchup against Forretress and Bisharp.
Morpeko (SS competitive strategy): Choice Band Morpeko is a unique offensive threat thanks to its signature move Aura Wheel and typing giving it a resistance to common revenge killers like Choice Scarf Rotom and Sucker Punch Shiftry. Aura Wheel gives Morpeko +1 Speed after each use, allowing it to outpace offensive threats like Rapidash and Choice Scarf Sawk to clean weakened teams late-game. Crunch provides Morpeko with a reliable Dark-type STAB move, hitting foes such as Gourgeist formes and Rotom. Seed Bomb is Morpeko's best coverage against opposing Ground-types, granting it a 2HKO against Piloswine and Rhydon after Stealth Rock damage. Ground-types are able to play around Aura Wheel and must be eliminated before Morpeko can effectively clean. Water-types such Poliwrath, Qwilfish, and Cramorant pair well with Morpeko, as they weaken Ground-types and benefit from Morpeko's ability to pressure Pokemon like Rotom and Articuno. Special attackers like Jynx and Choice Specs Exeggutor are also able to handle the aforementioned Ground-types and eliminate physically defensive walls such as Acid Armor Alcremie and Tangela. These special attackers also appreciate Morpeko weakening bulky Water-types such as Poliwrath and Pyukumuku. Morpeko holds a niche as a Rapid Spin user on offensive teams, handling some common entry hazard setters such as Uxie and Qwilfish. It also threatens Ghost-types such as Rotom, and Gourgeist formes, which other Rapid Spin users such as Coalossal and Kabutops do not do as effectively. However, Morpeko has a poor matchup against other entry hazard setters, especially Ground-types such as Piloswine, Rhydon, and Stunfisk, which limit its effectiveness. Aura Wheel serves as Morpeko's strongest STAB move, hitting foes like Qwilfish, Cramorant, and Articuno in Full Belly Mode and Uxie and Rotom in Hangry Mode. Protect allows Morpeko to safely switch between its Full Belly and Hangry formes while also allowing it to scout moves from Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Sawk. Parting Shot pairs well with the Speed boost provided by Aura Wheel and allows Morpeko to pivot from unfavorable matchups. Morpeko works best on offensive entry hazard stacking teams that appreciate its Rapid Spin and pivot support. Entry hazard setters such as Qwilfish, Coalossal, and Rhydon synergize well with Morpeko, the former checking Fighting-types such as Sawk and Fairy-types such as Clefairy; in return, Morpeko is able to handle foes like Rotom and Cramorant. Piloswine is able to wear down opposing Ground-types like Rhydon and set Stealth Rock. Wallbreakers like Jynx and Flapple appreciate Morpeko luring walls like Tangela and Altaria and bringing them in with Parting Shot. Attackers such as Kangaskan and setup sweepers such as Silvally-Poison enjoy Morpeko's Rapid Spin support. Taunt prevents Pokemon such as Uxie and Miltank from setting entry hazards and foes such as Altaria and Rotom-S from recovering health or using Defog. Life Orb grants Morpeko the freedom to switch between its moves, but the recoil can bring it in range of priority moves such as Gurdurr's Mach Punch. Also, the decrease in damage output compared to Choice Band leaves Morpeko unable to reliably 2HKO Pokemon such as Altaria.
Vanilluxe (BW competitive strategy): With the combination of Choice Scarf to outrun the entire unboosted metagame and a surprisingly powerful Ice Beam that even notably damages Pokemon that resist it, Vanilluxe makes a niche for itself in PU as a revenge killer and potential sweeper. Unfortunately, the notable lack of good coverage moves, lack of a truly good ability, weaknesses to common priority moves and Stealth Rock, and the fact that Vanilluxe is walled heavily by common Pokemon like Klang keep it from being a premier threat in PU. Ice Beam has no drawbacks and will be chosen almost all the time, especially since even Pokemon that resist it like Sneasel have the chance to be 2HKOed with entry hazards. The rest of the moveset is dedicated to niche coverage. Hidden Power Ground is the preferred option in the second moveslot for hitting Steel- and Fire-types like Klang and Monferno, while Hidden Power Fire exchanges the coverage on Fire-types for being able to hit Bronzor. Flash Cannon can be used to hit other Ice-types like Articuno, and Frost Breath can pierce through potential Special Defense boosts from Pokemon like Calm Mind Duosion. Weak Armor is the preferred ability for the potential Speed boost and the fact that hail is unviable, but Ice Body can be chosen if the Defense drop from Weak Armor is unappealing. A Modest nature is chosen for the extra power as the Choice Scarf already makes Vanilluxe faster than the entire unboosted metagame. Entry hazards go an exceptionally long way in letting Vanilluxe sweep, very often being the difference between a 3HKO and a 2HKO, so reliable hazard setters like Dwebble and Stunfisk are key teammates. Vanilluxe also hates hazards itself, so hazard control from Pokemon like Tentacool or Natu can help keep Vanilluxe healthy throughout the match. Vanilluxe is commonly walled by Steel-types like Klang and Bronzor, Water-types like Tentacool, and specially defensive walls like Audino, so partners like Marowak, Zebstrika, and Monferno are excellent choices for dealing with those walls. Vanilluxe also appreciates being switched in safely with Klang's Volt Switch and Jumpluff's U-turn. Vanilluxe doesn't offer much in the way of synergy itself, but wallbreakers like Stoutland and Simisear do appreciate Vanilluxe inviting in and weakening down common Steel- and Water-type switch-ins like Mawile and Frillish. Vanilluxe also tends to threaten out or take out certain threats like Vileplume and Stunfisk, so Pokemon that enjoy having those walls taken care of like Zebstrika and Monferno appreciate having it on their team.
Vanilluxe (XY competitive strategy): Vanilluxe solidifies itself as an excellent wallbreaker, courtesy of its power, offensive typing, and solid Speed. Ice Beam devastates popular Grass- and Ground-types like Servine, Ivysaur, Vibrava, and Krokorok. Freeze-Dry targets Water-types that would switch into Ice Beam, such as Politoed, Simipour, and Seaking. Hidden Power Ground hits Steel-types, OHKOing Lairon and 2HKOing offensive Klang. Flash Cannon OHKOes Carbink, Wigglytuff, and opposing Vanilluxe, OHKOing the latter two after Stealth Rock. Frost Breath 2HKOes Duosion and Carbink, bypassing any Calm Mind boosts they may have obtained. Weak Armor provides Vanilluxe with a situational Speed boost after being hit with contact moves like Knock Off and U-turn, which can be useful in endgames against attackers like Persian. Vanilluxe's wallbreaking capabilities best suit it on balanced and offensive teams, taking advantage of cores that rely on Politoed and bulky Grass-types for their defensive cores. Despite having coverage, Vanilluxe has difficulty forcing out Fire- and Steel-types like Pignite and Bronzor, which can freely switch into its STAB moves. Therefore, Fire-types like Pignite and Magmar can force out Steel-types, while Water-types like Simipour and Frogadier can force out Fire-types, making them good partners to Vanilluxe. Owing to its lack of defensive utility, Vanilluxe appreaciates slow pivots and Defoggers like Dustox and Vibrava to enter the field more safely and remove hazards to allow it to continue wallbreaking. Other pivots like Persian and Jumpluff enjoy Vanilluxe weakening Steel-types so that they can have an easier time revenge killing later in the game. Late-game cleaners like Whiscash and Sawsbuck likewise value Vanilluxe's power that lets them pick off weakened foes late-game. Special walls like Duosion, Dusclops, and specially defensive Swalot can be difficult for Vanilluxe to break through, so physical attackers like Scraggy, Sawsbuck, and Krokorok can help force these walls out. Vanilluxe turns into a threatening revenge killer, courtesy of its offensive typing and solid Speed. Freeze-Dry targets Water-types that would switch into Ice Beam, such as Politoed, Simipour, and Seaking, and revenge kills boosted sweepers like +1 Dragon Dance Whiscash and +1 Butterfree as well as fast setup Pokemon like Jumpluff and Swoobat in one slot. Hidden Power Ground targets Steel-types, OHKOing most Lairon sets and 3HKOing offensive Klang sets after Stealth Rock damage. Flash Cannon 2HKOes Carbink, Wigglytuff, and Vanilluxe. Weak Armor allows Vanilluxe to outspeed faster Choice Scarf users like Simipour and Electabuzz after being hit by physical contact moves. As this Vanilluxe set is meant to revenge kill, it ideally partners with wallbreakers like Pignite and Simisage. Even with Hidden Power Ground, Vanilluxe has difficulty forcing out Fire- and Steel-types like Pignite and Bronzor, which can freely switch into its STAB moves. Fire- and Ground-types like Magmar and Krokorok can weaken these checks so that Vanilluxe has an easier time revenge killing. Vanilluxe enjoys slow pivots and Defoggers like Dustox and Vibrava to shore up its lacking defensive profile. Late-game cleaners like Simipour and Scraggy value Vanilluxe's power to pick off weakened foes. Due to Vanilluxe's lower power holding a Choice Scarf, it struggles more against walls like Dustox, Duosion, and Scraggy, so answers to these defensive Pokemon like Lairon, Scraggy, and Pignite can ease its vulnerabilities to them. Vanilluxe turns into a frightening late-game cleaner with Autotomize, being able to switch between moves and outspeeding all Choice Scarf users in the metagame after a boost. Freeze-Dry breaks past Water-types that would tank Ice Beam like Politoed and Seaking. Hidden Power Ground threatens Steel- and Fire-types like Lairon and Pignite, OHKOing the former and 2HKOing the latter. Life Orb is the preferred item to boost Hidden Power Ground's power, 2HKOing Pignite after Stealth Rock damage. While Weak Armor does not synergize with Vanilluxe's offensive profile, it does allow it to outspeed the unboosted metagame without an Autotomize boost if it is hit with moves like Knock Off and U-turn. To ensure a successful sweep, Vanilluxe prefers having its Fire- and Steel-type checks like Pignite, Magmar, Klang, and Bronzor severely weakened or removed. Water- and Ground-types like Simipour and Krokorok stand out, with both having Knock Off to cripple Vanilluxe's checks and providing wallbreaking prowess to force out the opposition. Krokorok particularly stands out, being able to Pursuit trap Bronzor and threaten slower Steel- and Fire-types. Physical wallbreakers like Pignite and Furfrou can target special walls like Scraggy, Duosion, and Dustox, with the former also targeting Steel-types and the latter providing U-turn support to bring Vanilluxe in safely. Setup support like Memento from Jumpluff can give Vanilluxe an easier time setting up Autotomize, shoring up its poor defensive profile. Defoggers like Vibrava and Dustox and Taunt users like Quilladin and Servine can enhance Vanilluxe's longevity through preventing entry hazards from going up, ensuring a more reliable sweep. Hidden Power Fire over Hidden Power Ground has a small chance of 2HKOing Bronzor after Stealth Rock while still hitting Dustox, most Steel-types, and Grass-types for super effective damage. However, a super effective Hidden Power Fire is weaker than a neutral Ice Beam against all other targets, and this worsens Vanilluxe's matchup against Lairon.
Vanilluxe (SM competitive strategy): Snow Warning allows Vanilluxe to power off extremely powerful Blizzards, which can quickly dismantle teams lacking a sturdy Steel-type such as Registeel. A decent Speed tier puts it above many metagame threats, particularly Mega Blastoise, as well as other Pokemon like Nidoqueen and Tyrantrum. Blizzard + Freeze-Dry + Hidden Power Fire allows Vanilluxe to hit the majority of the tier for at least neutral damage, only missing out on Fire-types. It also has utility in Taunt that lets it prevent walls like Bronzong from setting up entry hazards and priority in the form of Ice Shard that lets it remove Pokemon like Noivern more easily. Despite this, Vanilluxe fails to make headway against the plethora of teams running sturdy Steel-types such as Registeel and Bronzong. Even against bulky offense, Vanilluxe will struggle to make immediate progress, as it'll have to worry about getting through other Steel-types like Metagross, and its mediocre defenses combined with an abysmal defensive typing leaves it vulnerable to faster bulky offense staples such as Virizion and Salazzle. Vanilluxe's underwhelming Special Attack stat means that all of its attacks bar Blizzard will be lacking. Vanilluxe is also worn down quickly by residual damage, especially Stealth Rock due to its typing, and it struggles to switch into weak attacks because of its mediocre bulk and bad defensive typing. Freeze-Dry lets Vanilluxe deal with Water-types like Milotic and Mega Blastoise. Ice Shard lets Vanilluxe take care of Pokemon like Zygarde-10% and Noivern as well as pick off weakened attackers like Virizion. Taunt improves Vanilluxe's matchup against defensive Steel-types like Registeel, which would otherwise come in for free and set up Stealth Rock or spread Toxic easily. Hidden Power Fire on Choice Specs sets lets Vanilluxe 2HKO Steel-types like Metagross and KO some of the more resilient ones after they've been worn down. A Hasty nature is important to outpace Nidoqueen and Mega Blastoise and is used over Timid to improve Ice Shard's damage output. Choice Specs gives Vanilluxe more immediate power, allowing it to consistently 2HKO Metagross, but Vanilluxe misses out on the freedom Icicle Plate has. Be cautious when clicking moves with Choice Specs, as being locked into a certain move can let Pokemon like Salazzle and Barbaracle set up for free. Make use of Taunt to prevent defensive Stealth Rock setters like Registeel and Bronzong from setting it up. Vanilluxe's mediocre bulk and awful defensive typing make it difficult to get it in freely, so make use of double switches and pivoting to give it turns. Vanilluxe struggles to get in due to a bad defensive typing and mediocre bulk, so pivots such as Tsareena and Noivern are great teammates to get it in. It also has a big weakness to Stealth Rock, so the aforementioned Tsareena as well as other entry hazard removers like Mega Blastoise and Mandibuzz are great teammates. Pokemon that deal with Vanilluxe's main weaknesses such as Toxicroak for Steel-types, Zygarde-10% for Fire-types, and Noivern for Fighting-types synergize well with Vanilluxe. Alolan Golem can be run alongside Vanilluxe to remove Steel-types, mainly Registeel and Bronzong, that Vanilluxe struggles with.
Vanilluxe (SS competitive strategy): Vanilluxe is a unique wallbreaker in UU, as it takes advantage of Snow Warning to use perfectly accurate Blizzards and crush many unprepared teams. When backed by Choice Specs, it becomes very difficult to switch into, as even Ice-resistant Pokemon like Cobalion, physically defensive Scizor, and Chandelure are 2HKOed by Blizzard. Further, many common Steel-types like Celesteela, Excadrill, and Skarmory are neutral to Ice, meaning they cannot switch in safely at all. Water-types like Slowking and Primarina also can't switch into it due to Freeze-Dry. Since Vanilluxe only needs those two moves to 2HKO most of the tier, it can run Sleep Talk in the third—and last—moveslot, making it a fantastic sleep absorber against Amoonguss and letting it save Blizzard PP. Due to Vanilluxe's reliance on Choice Specs, poor defensive typing, mediocre bulk, and Stealth Rock weakness, it struggles greatly to safely come onto the field. Because of this, Vanilluxe requires the support of pivots and double entry hazard removal cores. Its Speed tier also lets it down, since it is outsped by common offensive Pokemon like Nihilego and Keldeo. Blizzard is incredibly powerful, OHKOing common walls like Tangrowth and Hippowdon while 2HKOing Cobalion, Celesteela, and Nihilego. Freeze-Dry gives it important super effective coverage on Water-types like Primarina, Slowking, and Tentacruel. Sleep Talk lets it absorb Spore from Amoonguss and use Blizzard more often without wasting PP. Vanilluxe only runs three moves on this set so that Sleep Talk calls Freeze-Dry more often against Water-types. Ice Beam can have some use for a fourth move, since a foe like Chansey can easily stall out Blizzard's PP, but it is always the worst move to get when calling Sleep Talk, and Vanilluxe doesn't have much longevity for Ice Beam's PP to be necessary. Vanilluxe is used on bulky offense teams as a wallbreaker that can get past teams that rely on Scizor, Skarmory, and Celesteela as Steel-types, or on bulky Water-types like Slowking and Primarina as their primary special walls. Its Stealth Rock weakness means that entry hazard removal from Excadrill and Salamence is necessary for it to stay healthy and find opportunities to wallbreak. They can also handle Jirachi for Vanilluxe to more easily use its Ice-type moves. Both of these entry hazard removers are commonly used on the same team, since Salamence can handle Skarmory and Hippowdon, while Excadrill counters Nihilego, and having these entry hazard setters beaten helps with Vanilluxe's longevity greatly. Zarude lures in Skarmory and Amoonguss and uses U-turn for Vanilluxe to blast them away with Blizzard. Azelf can more easily deal with other Steel-types like Scizor and faster threats like Keldeo, as well as removing Eviolite from Chansey. It also can bring Vanilluxe in on Mandibuzz, giving it more wallbreaking opportunities. Swampert and the aforementioned Excadrill can set up Stealth Rock, which lets Vanilluxe guarantee a 2HKO on defensive Celesteela with Blizzard, as well as nearly always OHKOing Slowking with Freeze-Dry after hail chip damage. Both entry hazard setters take on Rotom-H, and Swampert lures in Tangrowth and Amoonguss for Vanilluxe. Slowking and Chansey provide a defensive backbone against Cobalion and Nihilego, and they let Vanilluxe get in safely with Teleport. Physical attackers like Swords Dance Scizor and Cobalion can take advantage of Chansey for Vanilluxe. Vanilluxe can run Never-Melt Ice with Taunt and Ice Shard to bluff the Choice Specs set, shut down Chansey's recovery, and surprise Zygarde-10%. However, this makes it much easier to PP stall Blizzard and sacrifices power, notably missing out on 2HKOing physically defensive Scizor. Choice Scarf instead of Choice Specs makes Vanilluxe a great revenge killer against faster Pokemon like Crobat, Keldeo, and Zarude. However, this set can be harder to fit due to its lower damage output.
Tyrantrum (XY competitive strategy): Tyrantrum makes for a powerful wallbreaker in the UU tier thanks to its access to two mind-blowingly powerful STAB moves in a recoil-free Head Smash and Outrage, especially coming off its high base 121 Attack. Tyrantrum also possesses a good physical movepool that gives it wide coverage. Furthermore, Tyrantrum also possesses good physical bulk along with resistances to Fire, Flying, and Poison, allowing it to take on a few relevant threats well, such as Darmanitan, Crobat, and to an extent Entei. However, Tyrantrum has relatively mediocre Speed, which makes it fairly easy to revenge kill. This is compounded by its weaknesses to Fighting-, Ground-, Fairy-, and Dragon-types, leaving it prone to common Pokemon such as Mienshao, Krookodile, and Whimsicott. Tyrantrum also possesses poor special bulk, making it easy to take down with a special attack. Head Smash serves as Tyrantrum's primary STAB move, which packs an incredible amount of power. Thanks to Rock Head, Tyrantrum can use this move without any recoil. Outrage hits quite hard as well, and it hits several Pokemon that resist Head Smash such as Swampert, Chesnaught, and Machamp. Earthquake allows Tyrantrum to hit opposing Nidoqueen, Cobalion, and to an extent Doublade hard. Superpower serves as a powerful move to hit Krookodile hard, OHKOing offensive variants while heavily denting defensive variants. A Choice Band allows Tyrantrum to hit with extreme immediate power, while Rock Head allows Tyrantrum to use Head Smash without worrying about recoil. An Adamant nature along with maximum Attack and Speed investment allows Tyrantrum to hit very hard, but a Jolly nature allows Tyrantrum to outspeed Modest Chandelure and Nidoqueen, which can be important. Tyrantrum, with this set, becomes an extremely powerful wallbreaker. Therefore, it is advised that one try to get Tyrantrum into the battle safely so it can proceed to do significant damage to the opposing team. It is important to be aware that Tyrantrum possesses a relatively mediocre Speed tier, which makes it quite easy to revenge kill. A Pokemon that can deal with faster teams, such as Heliolisk or Choice Scarf Krookodile, is a great option to help Tyrantrum against more offensive builds. Such Pokemon can also benefit from Tyrantrum's ability to wallbreak effectively. Whimsicott can also help Tyrantrum deal with offensive teams better, either via Stun Spore or Tailwind. It can also deal with opposing Pokemon that beat Tyrantrum such as bulky Water-types, Dragon-types, Fighting-types, and Krookodile. Hydreigon can form a strong wallbreaking core with Tyrantrum by breaking down many of Tyrantrum's counters such as Mega Aggron. Nidoqueen can take on Heracross and Mienshao while setting up Stealth Rock. Late-game cleaners such as Slurpuff and Mega Sharpedo also benefit from Tyrantrum's wallbreaking prowess, as it allows them to clean more efficiently late-game. Finally, entry hazard support is also appreciated to help Tyrantrum wallbreak more efficiently. Forretress, Froslass, and Chesnaught can all provide effective entry hazard support. Rock Polish boosts Tyrantrum's Speed to an extremely high level, allowing it to outspeed many Pokemon in the metagame. Head Smash provides a powerful STAB move that severely dents almost everything. Dragon Claw allows Tyrantrum to hit Pokemon that resist Head Smash somewhat hard. Outrage, however, provides immense power and neutral coverage, but it locks Tyrantrum into the move. Earthquake allows Tyrantrum to hit Steel-types such as Cobalion and Doublade quite hard. Maximum Attack and Speed investment is needed for Tyrantrum to best sweep. A Jolly nature is preferred over Adamant because it allows Tyrantrum to outspeed Choice Scarf Mienshao and Infernape after a boost. Rock Head allows Tyrantrum to freely use Head Smash without any recoil. Life Orb is generally the preferred choice for the extra power, while Lum Berry can allow Tyrantrum to have a one-time cure of status while setting up. Alternatively, Stone Plate can be used on Tyrantrum to give a slight boost to Head Smash's power without the drawback of Life Orb's recoil. This particular set of Tyrantrum performs more as a sweeper than a wallbreaker, and works best late in the game. However, Tyrantrum still packs strong power with this set, so make use of it whenever possible. Tyrantrum finds its best setup opportunities against Pokemon that cannot touch it, such as Crobat and Entei, as well as defensive Pokemon such as Mandibuzz, so make use of such setup opportunities. This set of Tyrantrum works excellently with other wallbreaking Dragon-types such as Hydreigon, which can help remove threats such as Swampert and Nidoqueen. Heracross also wallbreaks decently, and it can handle Mamoswine, Krookodile, and Bronzong nicely. A Volt Switch user such as Forretress or Heliolisk can also help get Tyrantrum in safely in order to set up. Forretress can also provide Rapid Spin and entry hazard support, both of which can prove very useful. Chesnaught, Froslass, and Mega Aggron can all provide entry hazard support to allow Tyrantrum to sweep more effectively. Tyrantrum has access to the move Dragon Dance, which it can utilize to boost both Attack and Speed at once. However, even after one boost, Tyrantrum still finds itself easily revenge killed by Choice Scarf users such as Mienshao, Krookodile, and Hydreigon. It can also learn Hone Claws, which can make its Head Smash stronger and also accurate, but this strategy is generally not reliable. Tyrantrum can also make use of Stealth Rock to support its team, but there are generally more effective users of Stealth Rock available, such as Krookodile, Mamoswine, and Nidoqueen. Tyrantrum can also use Mental Herb on the Rock Polish set in order to bypass Taunt and Encore from Whimsicott, but this is incredibly situational.
Tyrantrum (SM competitive strategy): Tyrantrum's most defining trait is its access to Rock Head and STAB Head Smash, giving it an absurdly powerful attack with no immediate drawbacks that dents any Pokemon that does not resist it and lets it act as a powerful holepuncher or cleaner. Rock is a powerful offensive typing, granting Tyrantrum good coverage against a majority of the tier and making Head Smash quite spammable. Tyrantrum has good neutral coverage and a considerably wide movepool, although all it really needs are moves that take on the few Pokemon in the tier that can consistently withstand its Head Smashes. These qualities present Tyrantrum as one of the tier's most potent attackers and holepunchers. However, Tyrantrum's Speed is noticeably lacking as a Choice Scarf user, failing to outspeed Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Gardevoir and Mega Sceptile. Tyrantrum's low Special Defense combined with its awkward defensive typing and multitude of weaknesses often turns it into a defensive liability, making Tyrantrum function as a glass cannon. Tyrantrum is thus heavily reliant on its few physical resistances and 4x resistance to Fire to avoid getting 2HKOed by invested attacks. Head Smash is Tyrantrum's primary STAB move, crushing a large majority of offensive Pokemon and potentially 2HKOing even those that resist it, such as Flygon and Virizion. Outrage hits offensive Pokemon that resist Rock, notably OHKOing Flygon while doing substantial damage to Virizion. It also can be a good late-game cleaning tool, as it boasts perfect accuracy over Head Smash. Earthquake hits Steel-types such as Registeel. Dragon Claw is a reliable STAB move that can pick off weakened foes or opposing Dragon-types, such as Flygon, Zygarde-10%, and Goodra, with much less risk than its other STAB attacks. However, it's only barely stronger than a resisted Head Smash, so it's usually not worth going for in most cases. Toxic can be an option, and while it is not a move you'd choose in a majority of circumstances, it may be the only way Tyrantrum can have some presence against bulky Pokemon that can heal off its blows such as Cresselia and Slowbro. A Jolly nature is necessary for Choice Scarf Tyrantrum to outspeed the likes of Jolteon, Swellow, and Salazzle, and full Attack investment simply maximizes the power of Head Smash for it to effortlessly KO most offensive Pokemon that don't resist it. Choice Scarf Tyrantrum's main role is to threaten offensive teams with Head Smash, which has enough power to 2HKO Flygon and Virizion after Stealth Rock damage, meaning that offensive teams have limited switch-ins to Tyrantrum and are quite prone to losing Pokemon to it. Keep an eye out for offensive Pokemon like Rhyperior that can switch into Head Smash and try to hit them with the appropriate coverage move or pull a double switch to maintain offensive momentum. However, be wary of any Fairy-types present if attempting to use Outrage, as it can mean Tyrantrum's premature end. Be sure to capitalize on Choice Scarf Tyrantrum's power over Aerodactyl, which checks most of the Pokemon Tyrantrum does while being able to switch moves and have access to Pursuit. Since this Tyrantrum set is designed to prey on offensive teams, partners that can take on bulkier teams are appreciated. Escavalier is a very solid teammate, as it can switch into and threaten Fairy-, Ice-, and Dragon-type Pokemon for Tyrantrum and help put additional pressure on bulky Pokemon that intend to take hits from Tyrantrum, skewering the likes of Cresselia and Slowbro. Escavalier can also Pursuit trap Bronzong, removing another obstacle for Tyrantrum. In turn, Tyrantrum can protect Escavalier from Fire-type attacks and threaten a vast majority of fast Pokemon. Other wallbreakers and holepunchers include Flame Orb Machamp, Pangoro, Shaymin, and Toxicroak, which can harass slower teams, but be mindful of their shared weaknesses with Tyrantrum. Head Smash is Tyrantrum's main STAB attack and is strong enough to 2HKO Bronzong, meaning only the bulkiest of Pokemon that resist Rock can hope to stomach it. Outrage dents Ground- and Fighting-types looking to resist Head Smash, heavily damages Donphan, 2HKOes Rhyperior after Stealth Rock damage, and is accurate, unlike Head Smash. Earthquake's main use is to smash Pokemon like Registeel and Steelix that can take Tyrantrum's STAB moves. Tyrantrum's last moveslot is largely filler, and it is mostly used to help Tyrantrum continue wallbreaking targets while still making it difficult for checks to switch in. Superpower helps to take out bulky Pokemon such as Umbreon and Snorlax while still deterring Steel-types such as Bronzong and Registeel from switching in. Crunch can be used to 2HKO specially defensive Cresselia without the risky effects of Head Smash and Outrage as well as cripple Bronzong. Dragon Claw is an option by virtue of simply being a safe STAB move to throw out, notably being able to damage Head Smash switch-ins without locking into Outrage, but its wallbreaking power is low otherwise. An Adamant nature with a Choice Band maximizes Tyrantrum's damage output against bulky Pokemon. A Jolly nature may be used to get the drop on the 242 speed tier, which includes relevant Pokemon like Florges, Mandibuzz, and Cresselia. Tyrantrum primarily targets slower Pokemon, against which it can use Head Smash and brutalize any Pokemon that doesn't resist the move. Head Smash's obscene power and lack of a crippling drawback aside from accuracy mean this will be Tyrantrum's most used attack. While Tyrantrum can predict the opponent's switch to a bulky Pokemon that resists Rock and use its other moves to nail them coming in, the best time for Tyrantrum to use its coverage moves is if they can KO the initial target while covering the switch at the same time. Since the opponent will rarely have more than one Pokemon that can take Head Smashes well, Tyrantrum usually only needs to get a single correct prediction to be free to spam Head Smash throughout the match. Against more offensive teams, Tyrantrum is not expected to survive for long due to its middling Speed and common weaknesses. Thus, it should focus on busting open a huge hole whenever it can, taking advantage of any slower or offensively weaker Pokemon on the opponent's team as well as the fact that they do not possess good switch-ins to Tyrantrum. Fast Pokemon that can clean games, such as Swellow, Dragon Dance Zygarde-10%, Salazzle, and Yanmega, make great partners to Tyrantrum, as these Pokemon greatly appreciate Tyrantrum softening up the foe's team to have an easier time sweeping. Tyrantrum can also lure out and weaken or KO problematic Pokemon for these sweepers, such as Bronzong and Rhyperior, as well as provide mild defensive synergy with Salazzle, as it resists Fairy-, Steel-, and Ice-type moves for it. Tyrantrum especially appreciates VoltTurn support to be able to switch into bulky Pokemon with minimal risk and can be provided by fast Pokemon such as Swellow, Noivern, Raikou, and Flygon. Tyrantrum also benefits from many forms of speed control, such as Sticky Web and paralysis, to gain an advantage against faster targets, making any potential users of these moves, such as Galvantula, Cresselia, Slowbro, and Porygon2 helpful teammates. Outrage is Tyrantrum's secondary STAB move, and coupled with Dragonium Z, it can be used to hit most Rock-resistant Pokemon such as Rhyperior and Bewear. However, locking into Outrage can be very dangerous if the opponent has a Fairy- or Steel-type that can KO Tyrantrum, such as Gardevoir or Metagross. Earthquake lets Tyrantrum hit Steel-types such as Registeel, which resist both of its STAB moves. Maximum Attack and Speed investment allows Tyrantrum to maximize its offensive presence. A Jolly nature is necessary to outspeed base 100 Speed Choice Scarf users such as Shaymin and Flygon, which would otherwise revenge kill Tyrantrum after a Rock Polish. However, sacrificing those advantages for an Adamant nature is an option if you prefer the extra power behind Tyrantrum's attacks, notably allowing it to OHKO Shaymin after some prior chip damage. Dragonium Z allows Tyrantrum to bypass its would-be checks, such as Rhyperior and Bewear, while Rockium Z lets it drop a nuke on neutral targets while bypassing Head Smash's shaky accuracy. If already using a Z-Move on your team, Rock Incense is a decent option to strengthen the power of Head Smash. This does lack the explosive power of Z-Moves that lets Tyantrum get past specific checks, though. Groundium Z is a serviceable option that lets Tyrantrum nail Pokemon such as non-Shuca Berry Metagross. Rock Polish Tyrantrum is able to bluff a Choice Scarf set, being able to set up on frail, offensive Pokemon such as Aerodactyl, Ninetales, and Swellow that fear its Choice Scarf set while also having a decent matchup versus bulkier teams due to the one-time nuke that Dragonium Z provides. Due to Tyrantrum's decent defensive typing, it is able to find setup opportunities from switching into common offensive Pokemon like Salazzle and setting up as they're forced out. Tyrantrum also finds setup opportunities on Choice-locked Pokemon such as Escavalier locked into Pursuit. Be wary of clicking Outrage when a Fairy-type such as Florges or Gardevoir is present on the opponent's field since the Fairy-type would gain a free turn. Against bulkier teams, make sure to gauge when the time is right to use the Z-Move, as eliminating a Rock-resistant Pokemon early-game can be extremely beneficial for Tyrantrum and leave it far less prediction reliant. For example, if you successfully eliminate a Rhyperior early-game, Tyrantrum can more easily spam Head Smash with little consequence. Steel-types such as Bronzong should be eliminated before attempting a Tyrantrum sweep, since they aren't hit by Earthquake hard enough and can stop a +2 Tyrantrum in its tracks. Wallbreakers such as Mega Abomasnow, Ninetales, and Choice Band Escavalier can pave the way for a Tyrantrum sweep due to them being able to wear down common answers for it, such as Bronzong. Pursuit from the likes of Escavalier and Drapion is able to weaken Pokemon like Bronzong and Cresselia for Tyrantrum. Tyrantrum appreciates support from Spikes setters like Roserade, Mega Glalie, and Golisopod, since many of its checks, such as Shuca Berry Metagross and Nidoqueen, lack reliable recovery, making them prone to being weakened by repeated switches into spikes. Pokemon that can beat opposing Steel-types are a must, since Tyrantrum cannot sweep if they are present. Bewear and Fire Blast Nidoqueen are good examples of wallbreakers that can neuter Steel-types. Grass-types such as Shaymin and Virizion are able to depend on Tyrantrum to take Fire- and Flying-type attacks for them and set up on these attacks. In return, Grass-types can weaken prominent Ground-types like Rhyperior, which threaten Tyrantrum's ability to sweep. Tyrantrum has access to Dragon Dance, which can be paired with a Z-Move such as Continental Crush, Devastating Drake, or even Tectonic Rage, but Tyrantrum's mediocre Speed even at +1 makes it much easier to revenge kill, and it lacks the immediate power that Tyrantrum prefers for wallbreaking.
Tyrantrum (SS competitive strategy): With access to a STAB recoil-free Head Smash and useful coverage options, Tyrantrum is one of NU's premier wallbreakers, threatening immense damage whenever it safely gets onto the field. Because of this, Tyrantrum loves the plethora of pivoting options in the tier to reliably bring it in, and, when coupled with its good Speed tier for a wallbreaker, teams rarely have a consistent defensive answer. Tyrantrum also has Scale Shot, allowing sweeper sets to outspeed more offensive teams and revenge killers. Tyrantrum's main drawback offensively lies in its reliance on Head Smash, making Tyrantrum predictable for teams to switch into with a defensive Steel- or Ground-type. On top of that, Head Smash has low accuracy, making Tyrantrum unreliable at throwing out huge damage. Faster revenge killers, such as Passimian, Rotom-C, and Inteleon, can also take advantage of Tyrantrum, forcing it out to grab back momentum or break massive holes in your team. Close Combat helps make quick work of common switch-ins such as Steel- and Ground-types, chipping them into Head Smash range for later. Dragon Claw is a more reliable albeit weaker STAB attack to spam, whereas Scale Shot is also less comital than Outrage with cleaning potential thanks to the Speed boost. Getting rid of Steel- and Ground-types such as Stakataka and Mudsdale is key to letting Tyrantrum rip open teams with Head Smash. Grass- and Water-types such as Rotom-C, Decidueye, and Starmie can help switch into and break open the Ground-types in the tier for Tyrantrum. Fire-types such as Arcanine, Talonflame, and Salazzle also make great partners, helping check Steel-types like Copperajah and Escavalier, while Tyrantrum can help break through common Fire-type answers such as Mantine and Diancie. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Copperajah, Diancie, and Garbodor helps chip walls into OHKO range, such as with Diancie and Vileplume. Pokemon that utilize pivoting moves, such as Vaporeon, Rotom-C, and Passimian, are also helpful for getting Tyrantrum onto the field easily. After boosting, Tyrantrum becomes a powerful late-game cleaner, and, when paired with Scale Shot, not much can reliably revenge kill it. Lum Berry is the most common item, letting Tyrantrum set up in the face of status users such as Mantine and Talonflame. Life Orb gives it an immediate power boost that can pick up the KO versus certain Pokemon such as Sylveon, Vaporeon, and Diancie when at +1 Attack. Hone Claws is a solid secondary option over Dragon Dance to boost accuracy for Head Smash and Scale Shot, but Dragon Dance is usually preferred because of its higher sweeping potential. A Jolly nature is prefered specifically for speeding past Talonflame, Inteleon, and Aerodactyl at +1 Speed. Getting rid of or chipping Ground-types is necessary to letting Tyrantrum sweep. Grass-type partners such as Rotom-C, itemless Vileplume, and Decidueye do a great job switching into and punishing Ground-types such as Mudsdale, Golurk, Gastrodon, and Rhydon. Spikes support from Garbodor or Qwilfish also helps chip down Pokemon such as Diancie, Sylveon, and Vaporeon into Head Smash range. Grass- and Water-type setup sweepers such as Decidueye and Kingdra are fantastic partners, setting up on the Ground-types Tyrantrum wants gone. Choice Scarf can be an alternative option on Tyrantrum, letting it be a revenge killer and potential late-game cleaner while improving its matchup against offensive teams, but this set struggles to break through defensive cores with its significantly lower power level and needs heavy support. Chople Berry on setup sets is another viable item, baiting in and KOing Passimian, which would usually stop a sweep.
Kingambit (SV competitive strategy): Kingambit shines as one of the tier's most dangerous sweepers thanks to its solid STAB combination, superb defensive typing, high Attack stat, access to Swords Dance, and incredible ability in Supreme Overlord. Its access to Sucker Punch allows it to compensate for its low Speed and serve as a potent revenge killer, picking off a wide range of faster targets such as Dragapult, Deoxys-S, and Iron Moth. It can also customize its EV spread, item choice, and Tera type selection to tailor itself to what its team desires and overcome many would-be answers. For example, Tera Flying and Air Balloon improve Kingambit's matchup against Ground-types, Tera Fire and Lum Berry let it foil attempted burns from Will-O-Wisp, and Tera Ghost flips its Fighting weakness and turns the tables on Body Press Corviknight and Fighting-types like Zamazenta and Great Tusk. Thanks to these traits and flexibility, Kingambit is welcomed by nearly every offensive archetype in the tier. However, it is heavily burdened by a crippling weakness to Fighting, as well as common attacking types like Fire and Ground. This leaves it struggling against common threats like Zamazenta and Great Tusk without Terastallizing, and plenty of Pokemon like Gholdengo, Deoxys-S, and Iron Crown often slap on Fighting-type coverage to deal with it. Additionally, these Pokemon, as well as Corviknight and Dondozo, often utilize Tera Fighting specifically to turn the tables on Kingambit. Tera Fairy is also commonplace in the tier, as Pokemon like Gholdengo, Raging Bolt, and Iron Moth sometimes utilize it in part to avoid being revenge killed by Kingambit's Dark-type attacks. Additionally, Kingambit's low Speed forces it to rely on Sucker Punch to deal with faster teams and play carefully around Encore from foes such as Ogerpon-W, Dragonite, and Iron Valiant. Relying on Sucker Punch also makes Kingambit vulnerable to well-timed status moves such as Will-O-Wisp, Substitute, and recovery moves from Pokemon like Darkrai, Dragapult, Kyurem, and Iron Moth. The ubiquity of priority moves, such as Raging Bolt's Thunderclap and Dragonite's Extreme Speed, is also an issue for Kingambit's Sucker Punch. On top of this, Kingambit lacks reliable recovery, and it struggles to fit all the moves it wants in one set to threaten targets like Great Tusk, opposing Kingambit, and Hisuian Samurott. Its ability to immediately dent Fairy-types and Tera Fairy users such as Clefable, Galarian Weezing, Gholdengo, Moltres, and opposing Kingambit with Iron Head can be forgone for either Low Kick or Tera Blast Fairy. Low Kick gives Kingambit a non-Tera-reliant move to hit Hisuian Samurott and opposing Kingambit super effectively while netting crucial benchmarks such as potentially OHKOing Ting-Lu at +2, especially because common Fighting-resistant Pokemon like Galarian Slowking and Pecharunt want nothing to do with Kingambit; Low Kick should only be used on maximum Speed variants to try and hit opposing Kingambit first. While more Tera-reliant, Tera Blast Fairy hits Zamazenta, Great Tusk, Hisuian Samurott, Tera Dark Pecharunt, and Tera Fighting Dondozo super effectively while still netting great neutral coverage against the whole metagame, including the aforementioned Fairy-types and other foes like Kingambit, when paired with its Dark-type STAB moves. Kowtow Cleave can also be dropped for either of the aforementioned coverage moves if need be, but it makes Kingambit struggle to beat neutral walls like Corviknight, and, without committing to Tera Blast Fairy, Alomomola and Zapdos. Leftovers takes further advantage of its defensive profile and works well with Sucker Punch, as foes attempting to play around it will just grant Kingambit more health. Leftovers is especially more effective on variants running the bulky EV spread. Lum Berry mainly prevents Kingambit from being shut down by a burn from the likes of Dragapult, Darkrai, Alomomola, and Moltres. Black Glasses + Tera Dark should exclusively be used together with Kowtow Cleave, as these propel Kingambit's offensive pressure further; with five Supreme Overlord boosts under its belt, Kingambit can reach feats such as 2HKOing even Dondozo with Kowtow Cleave and OHKOing Dragonite through Multiscale with Sucker Punch at +2. Air Balloon allows Kingambit to set up on would-be checks in Landorus-T and most Great Tusk; become a sturdy switch-in to offensive threats like Kyurem and Dragonite that mostly rely on their Ground-type coverage to hit it; and gain an immunity to Spikes, which is one of the ways to limit Kingambit's health before it gets going. The latter reasoning thus makes Heavy-Duty Boots an appealing alternative option to combat entry hazards in general, especially on hazard-stacking teams that lack reliable hazard removers while aiming to play a longer game. Similar to Air Balloon, Shuca Berry can be used instead for its matchup against the aforementioned Ground-types and Ground coverage moves; it gives Kingambit more freedom to take on other attacks before if necessary and it hides Kingambit's item from the opponent at the cost of a complete immunity to Ground, even against Spikes. Tera Ghost flips its Fighting weakness, letting it go toe-to-toe against otherwise solid checks in IronPress users like Corviknight, Skarmory, and Zamazenta more reliably, especially because it naturally puts fear in the likes of Dragapult and Gholdengo from trying to exploit its newfound Ghost weakness. Defensively, Tera Fairy also gives it an overall good defensive typing, notably letting it take on all-out attacking Zamazenta better while maintaining its Dark resistance against other foes like non-Iron Head Kingambit and Weavile. Tera Fighting can be used on Low Kick variants, boosting the move to pressure Ting-Lu, Dondozo, and Great Tusk hard. Tera Flying is an option for its complete immunity to Ground moves from checks like Great Tusk and Landorus-T, especially on sets without Air Balloon. Tera Fire provides a burn immunity from foes like Dragapult, Darkrai, and Moltres, even flipping its Fire weakness against the latter and other threats like Cinderace and Iron Moth. An Adamant nature is preferred, with maximum Speed investment to Speed tie opposing Kingambit; going even further with a Jolly nature gives better odds in winning this interaction, which also helps in outspeeding most variants of Skarmory, Primarina, and Sinistcha. A bulkier EV spread further takes advantage of Kingambit's hit-taking abilities, remarkably reaching feats such as surviving +2 Ogerpon-W's Ivy Cudgel and two Iron Valiant Moonblasts while running just enough Speed for Blissey. Kingambit's late-game potential and defensive utility make it a near staple on any offensive archetype, ranging from bulky to hyper offense, while still being capable of fitting on balance teams. Physically offensive teammates like Ogerpon-W, Zamazenta, Dragonite, and Swords Dance Iron Valiant are helpful to overwhelm shared checks like Zamazenta, Landorus-T, Moltres, and Dondozo. Simultaneously, special attackers like Calm Mind Iron Valiant, Gholdengo, Dragapult, Iron Moth, Kyurem, and Raging Bolt are similarly helpful to handle and pressure these checks, preventing them from getting free turns to set up or recover health. Additionally, their synergy doesn't stop there, as Zamazenta and some Iron Valiant variants appreciate Kingambit's ability to switch into and threaten Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking; Dragonite can take on Iron Moth and provide a Ground immunity against Landorus-T; Gholdengo can switch into and check Zamazenta for Kingambit; Dragapult can check Zamazenta and bring Kingambit safely via U-turn; and Kyurem and Raging Bolt can threaten and force damage, respectively, onto Kingambit's Ground-type checks in Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Ting-Lu. Dark-type offensive threats in Darkrai and Hisuian Samurott, in particular, are notable in forming a Dark-type spam core together with Kingambit, which is capable of overwhelming Dark-resistant Pokemon like Zamazenta and Tera Fairy users like Gholdengo, Garganacl, and Moltres together. Moreover, the aforementioned Hisuian Samurott helps chip foes into Kingambit's KO range with its entry hazards, whether it's softening walls like Ting-Lu or potential revenge killers like Ogerpon-W and Iron Moth into Sucker Punch range; thus, other hazard setters like Landorus-T, Glimmora, Deoxys-S, and Ting-Lu are similarly valuable. Defensive pivots like Landorus-T, Zapdos, Pecharunt, and Galarian Slowking are common faces on bulky offense teams that help switch into threats like Cinderace, Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Zamazenta for Kingambit and are great at bringing it in safely onto the field, especially with Intimidate and Parting Shot to ease its setup; in return, Kingambit helps check Darkrai, Gholdengo, and Dragapult for Galarian Slowking and Pecharunt. Other and more specific offensive playstyles like Sticky Web, dual screens, and the fringe Trick Room can also mesh well with Kingambit. Sticky Web from Ribombee and Araquanid compensates for Kingambit's low Speed against faster threats like Raging Bolt, Hisuian Samurott, and Great Tusk if Kingambit runs a Jolly nature, even making it less reliant on Sucker Punch mind games. Dual screens from Alolan Ninetales give Kingambit an easier time setting up and let it stomach even super effective hits from Iron Moth and Darkrai. Similar to Sticky Web, Trick Room set by teammates like Hatterene can compensate for Kingambit's poor Speed tier, especially against fast foes like Iron Valiant and Encore Ogerpon-W. On balance teams, a sturdier defensive backbone with the likes of Skarmory, Corviknight, Clefable, Gliscor, and Alomomola is similarly appreciated, as on top of switching into Kingambit's aforementioned checks and revenge killers, they can also set entry hazards and bring it in safely via slow pivots; Alomomola can also provide Kingambit with Wish support, while Gliscor and Clefable can further weaken walls with Knock Off. Outside of its utility set, Swords Dance Gliscor, in particular, is also a strong setup sweeper that complements Kingambit well. Kingambit has a few other Tera types that it can make use of. Tera Grass flips the matchup against Ogerpon-W and lets Kingambit set up on Ground-types like Great Tusk, Ting-Lu, and Iron Treads. Tera Poison grants Kingambit a Fighting resistance while keeping its immunity to Toxic and has the benefit of absorbing Toxic Spikes for teams that are otherwise at a disadvantage against them. Black Belt can be used on Tera Fighting + Low Kick sets, with the boost in particular letting it 2HKO Dondozo with five Supreme Overlord boosts. Tera Blast is an option on Tera Flying variants that lets Kingambit smash through Great Tusk, Zamazenta, Tera Fighting Dondozo, and even Okidogi that would otherwise not mind Tera Blast Fairy variants, but it misses out on super effective coverage against Hisuian Samurott and Tera Dark Pecharunt. Clear Amulet is another item option to ignore Landorus-T's Intimidate and disrupt Parting Shot from Pecharunt to stop it from switching out. Thunder Wave can be used to cripple incoming switch-ins, such as Zamazenta and Moltres, and it synergizes well with Iron Head's chance to flinch.
Magearna (SM competitive strategy): Magearna's incredible typing, well-rounded great stats, and deep movepool make it much more than just a cog in the metagame machine; rather, it is one of the most versatile and defining Pokemon in the tier. It has a wide array of coverage options like Thunderbolt, Ice Beam, Focus Blast, and Energy Ball to hit nearly everything it wants to, with an offensive presence good enough to make it count. It's commonly seen wielding an Assault Vest, checking special attackers like Ash-Greninja, Tapu Lele, and Mega Alakazam while linking up with common VoltTurn partners Landorus-T and Rotom-W to provide a defensively solid momentum core on offense teams. It can use Heart Swap on defensive Leftovers sets to prevent Calm Mind sweepers like Reuniclus, Cresselia, and Mega Latias from getting out of control, as well as other general utility options like Heal Bell and Thunder Wave. It can even make use of Calm Mind itself, utilizing Pain Split to stay healthy and comfortably beat Chansey one-on-one. Its offensive bag of tricks does not stop there, however, as it can utilize Shift Gear to outspeed and clean up weakened teams, with its ability Soul-Heart being perfect for the role, letting it snowball out of control. It can also make use of Trick Room, freeing itself up to invest in bulk and preventing the possibility of faster Pokemon like Sand Rush Excadrill and Swift Swim Mega Swampert revenge killing it. It additionally can support slower teammates like Mega Mawile, which gives Magearna an instrumental role on dedicated Trick Room teams. Despite these massive upsides, Magearna struggles with its poor Speed and weaknesses to common offensive types in Fire and Ground. Additionally, Magearna can struggle to keep itself healthy between needing to rely on the often-unreliable Pain Split to heal itself and the prevalence of Spikes. Fleur Cannon is a crucial, powerful STAB move that hits hard neutrally, catching all sorts of offensive Pokemon like Mega Lopunny, Tapu Koko, Greninja, and Mega Medicham all in one slot. Ice Beam is a surefire way to OHKO Landorus-T and Gliscor that also pressures the likes of Serperior and Zapdos. Energy Ball can be used to snipe the likes of Mega Swampert switching in as well as Seismitoad and Gastrodon. Iron Head is a good option for more efficiently trading damage with opposing Assault Vest Magearna and Tapu Lele, as well as pressuring Calm Mind Clefable. Hidden Power Fire takes chunks out of Ferrothorn and Mega Scizor and OHKOes Kartana, while Focus Blast can do this as well as 2HKO Heatran at the cost of poor accuracy. Volt Switch allows Magearna to take a hit and safely bring in offensive teammates, additionally keeping up the pressure if it catches a switch. The physical bulk investment allows Magearna to survive a +2 High Jump Kick from Hawlucha at full health, additionally being useful for taking Psyshock from Tapu Lele, with the rest of the EVs pooled into Special Defense to maximize its bulk. If running Iron Head, use a spread of 248 HP / 224 SpD / 36 Spe with a Sassy nature; the Speed allows it to get the jump on uninvested Clefable. Magearna can be thrown into special attackers like Ash-Greninja and Mega Alakazam early-game, threatening them out and bringing in wallbreakers with Volt Switch. Magearna has a tendency to give free setup opportunities to the likes of Mega Charizard X and Volcarona, especially so after using Fleur Cannon, so make sure not to leave it in and pivot out as much as possible if your answers to them have been taken out of commission. In certain other matchups, Magearna's great bulk gives it plenty of opportunities to favorably trade, surviving Earthquake from defensive Landorus-T from full and comfortably surviving Mega Lopunny's High Jump Kick. Watch out for Protean variants of Greninja, as they can use Tectonic Rage to remove Magearna immediately, Hidden Power Fire to weaken Fleur Cannon, and Spikes to block Volt Switch. This set fits best on fast-paced offense teams, acting as a short-term blanket check to special threats and providing safe pivoting. Landorus-T is the traditional complement to Assault Vest Magearna, as it's essentially Magearna's physical counterpart in that it temporarily checks physical attackers like Mega Charizard X and Excadrill, also working together with Magearna to handle Mega Mawile and Choice Scarf Kartana and providing more momentum with U-turn. Frail attackers like Mega Medicham, Ash-Greninja, and Mega Lopunny are the prime beneficiaries of Magearna's slow pivoting, as they struggle to switch directly into attacks. Other pivots like Tapu Koko and Rotom-W are able to work with Magearna to keep up momentum, with Tapu Koko posing an offensive threat and both checking Ground-types for Magearna. Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T and Kartana act as an extra safety net against Mega Alakazam + Tapu Lele teams, ensuring that even when Magearna is overwhelmed, Mega Alakazam can still be revenge killed. Considering the amount of Pokemon that Magearna is tasked with handling, it can become overwhelmed quite quickly, so Victini makes for a good teammate because it shares key resistances, such as to Psychic, Ice, and Grass. Fleur Cannon is a great option to hit neutrally and compress different targets into one slot, also being an excellent candidate for a Z-Move to hit hard without the drawback. Ice Beam prevents specially defensive Gliscor from switching in and is better for dealing with Serperior and Tapu Bulu, with the downside of not being able to threaten Kyurem-B. Flash Cannon is good for Fairy-types like Mega Mawile and Clefable while still being a good, more spammable, neutral option. Pain Split is Magearna's method of recovery, allowing it to heal off chip damage and sit on the likes of Chansey. Heart Swap allows Magearna to flip the script on bulky setup sweepers like Reuniclus, Mega Latias, and Cresselia by stealing their boosts, threatening the opposing team with a boosted attack as they switch out. Heal Bell is a great support option to clear status from teammates, such as a paralyzed Tornadus-T and Rest Seismitoad. Thunder Wave irritates plenty of switch-ins like Heatran, Jirachi, and Volcarona and is especially potent against Mega Alakazam, essentially taking it out of commission in one turn. The physical bulk investment allows Magearna to survive a +2 High Jump Kick from Hawlucha at full health, with the rest of the EVs pooled into Special Defense. Be careful of Magearna's HP, as Pain Split is quite an unreliable method of recovery, and Magearna is liable to being chipped down easily by attacks. For the same reason, make sure to keep Spikes off of the field at all times. Heart Swap has half the PP of Calm Mind, so, if possible, it's optimal to use it after multiple opposing boosts to ensure that Magearna won't be stalled out of them. Pain Split can be essentially blocked if the opponent switches in a Pokemon at low health, so if they have a suitable candidate, it can be better to attack instead to finish it off or pivot out with Volt Switch. This set is more tailored towards teams ranging from balance to stall, typically acting as a secondary check to Pokemon alongside its utility duties. Seismitoad has good defensive synergy with Magearna, as Seismitoad can check Heatran, and its Water Absorb works with Magearna's Dark resistance to handle Ash-Greninja as a team effort. Additionally, Heal Bell variants of Magearna can wake Seismitoad up from Rest. Wish support from the likes of Chansey and Clefable can decrease the burden on Magearna's Pain Split and prevent it from being worn down as easily. Toxapex and Kommo-o check the likes of Mega Charizard Y and Volcarona and appreciate Magearna being able to handle Psychic-types like Mega Alakazam and Tapu Lele as well as Kyurem-B. Chansey takes the pressure off of Magearna when it comes to handling many special attackers, but it notably cannot safely handle Tapu Lele and can lose to bulky setup sweepers like Calm Mind Reuniclus, which is why Heart Swap Magearna benefits it a lot as a teammate. Tornadus-T can add to the pivoting core with U-turn and helps to handle threats like Kartana and Mega Medicham. Gliscor has a helpful immunity to Ground and can check the hugely threatening Heatran for Magearna, with Magearna handling Ice-types like Kyurem-B and Weavile in return. Mega Latias complements Magearna perfectly, taking on Fire- and Ground-types like Victini and Gliscor while relying on Magearna for Dark- and Ice-types like Ash-Greninja, Weavile, and Kyurem-B. Fleur Cannon is Magearna's main damage-dealing option, able to act as a decisive finishing blow against the likes of Chansey after it stacks enough easily afforded Calm Mind boosts. This can be bolstered further by Fairium Z, giving Magearna a sharper finishing blow and allowing it to get the ball rolling immediately against more volatile, offensive teams. Thunderbolt is the perfect complement, as it would be very hard to make this set work without Thunderbolt to pile damage onto Toxapex and hit Steel-types like Celesteela and opposing Magearna. Calm Mind is crucial for forcing through sturdy special walls, additionally helping against special attackers by causing the likes of Ash-Greninja and Tapu Koko's attacks to bounce off. Pain Split allows Magearna to play the long game against the bulky teams this set is known for terrorizing, getting an absurd amount of health back from Chansey and healing off chip damage from attacks. The given EV spread allows Magearna to survive an Earthquake from Landorus-T and High Jump Kick from Mega Medicham, outspeed Skarmory, and avoid the 2HKO from Timid Choice Specs Tapu Lele's Psychic and Mega Alakazam's Focus Blast, and the rest of the EVs are pooled into Special Attack. Leftovers reduce the burden on Pain Split to keep Magearna healthy, making its matchup easier against the likes of Chansey. Magearna can also run a spread of 252 HP / 212 Def / 44 Spe with a Bold nature to keep the Speed benchmark, maximize its ability to check physical attackers like Kartana and Mega Mawile, and trade with Mega Medicham and Hawlucha more safely. The main draw of this set is how difficult it is to consistently wall, as with the combination of Calm Mind + Pain Split as well as a great Special Attack, Magearna joins the exclusive club of special attackers that can break through Chansey. To put it simply, Magearna excels against passive structures, as it can use the likes of Chansey, Mega Latias, and Clefable as setup fodder, and they have limited means to force it out. Though a boosted Z-Move is a necessary part of Magearna's plan against the likes of Chansey, specially defensive Gliscor, and opposing Calm Mind users, it has plenty of immediate breaking power in more offensive matchups, microwaving neutral targets like Landorus-T, Zapdos, and Tapu Lele. In these matchups, don't get disillusioned by Magearna's offensive potential; it serves its duty perfectly fine by being thrown in to check the likes of Kyurem-B or being saved until late-game sections to beat sweepers like Dragonite, Gyarados, Kommo-o, and Mega Tyranitar one-on-one. When facing Thunder Wave Chansey, it's important not to fully commit to taking paralysis without a good reason, as this gives Chansey odds to win the one-on-one with full paralyses. This variant of Magearna fits perfectly on bulky balance teams that can relieve it of some of its defensive duties and appreciate it consistently posing a threat against opposing balance teams. Gliscor provides a rock-solid answer to Heatran and can back up Magearna either with entry hazard support or as a secondary threat with Swords Dance. Slowbro serves as an answer to some of the worst attackers Magearna can face, like Mega Charizard X, Mega Swampert, and Excadrill, especially so with Slowbronite. Toxapex handles the specially offensive nasties like Mega Charizard Y and Volcarona well and especially appreciates Magearna stepping in against Tapu Lele and Alakazam. It can even run Shed Shell to add Heatran to the list of notable Pokemon it handles for Magearna. Mega Latias can provide a secondary wincon with Calm Mind or can spread paralysis with Thunder Wave while it checks the likes of Gliscor and Mega Charizard Y. Stealth Rock is important for shortening the lifespan of Fire-type checks like Mega Charizard X and Victini, so setters like Chansey and Clefable make plenty of sense as teammates. Ferrothorn has great synergy with Magearna, as it can reduce its burden against the likes of Tapu Koko and Greninja, allowing it to preserve its health to trade, while additionally offering Spikes to chip away at Magearna's checks such as Heatran, Jirachi, Thunder Wave Chansey, and opposing Magearna. Calm Mind turns Magearna into a threatening wallbreaker and a dangerous late-game cleaner and makes it more difficult for special attackers such as Tapu Koko and Mega Alakazam to take it down. Fleur Cannon hits neutral targets such as Landorus-T and Seismitoad hard and mows through Fighting- and Dragon-types like Mega Lopunny, Mega Medicham, Kommo-o, and Mega Latias. Ice Beam cleanly OHKOes the likes of Gliscor while still threatening Grass-types like Serperior and Tapu Bulu and Dragon-types like Kommo-o. Focus Blast pairs well with Fleur Cannon by hitting Steel-types like Heatran and Ferrothorn for major damage. Aura Sphere has more PP and provides a more accurate Fighting-type coverage option to still hit the aforementioned Steel-types, at the expense of a significant drop in power, with Magearna no longer able to OHKO Excadrill without a boost. Finally, Thunderbolt allows Magearna to threaten the likes of Toxapex, Celesteela, and Mega Charizard Y super effectively, all of which can handle its other moves. The given EV spread enables Magearna to survive a +2 High Jump Kick from Hawlucha and two Focus Blasts from Mega Alakazam after Stealth Rock, with Speed investment to outspeed Skarmory, while the rest of the EVs are dumped into Special Attack. Aguav Berry can be used to gain back lost HP in a pinch after taking hits while setting up, more useful when faced with heavy hits like Landorus-T's Earthquake. Leftovers is another useful option in a similar manner to slowly regain health, making it harder for passive Pokemon like Chansey to meaningfully chip away at Magearna. If Magearna is knocked into low HP, Custap Berry allows it to net surprise damage against Pokemon like Landorus-T and Mega Swampert after taking a hit. Calm Mind Magearna fills a unique role as a wallbreaker, late-game cleaner, and a defensive stopgap that can take on monstrous special attackers like Tapu Lele, Tapu Koko, and Mega Alakazam, with Soul-Heart enabling it to nab a boost after a KO and mitigate the Special Attack drop from Fleur Cannon. It is highly recommended to ensure that Magearna stays as healthy as possible to handle Hawlucha and Kommo-o due to this set's limited longevity and, in the case of Hawlucha, the high amount of HP needed to survive one hit and revenge kill. Magearna often finds setup opportunities against Choice-locked Pokemon like Ash-Greninja locked into Dark Pulse and Kartana locked into Leaf Blade as well as passive Pokemon like non-Flamethrower Clefable, Slowbro, and Toxapex. Magearna can also use its bulk to trade against Pokemon like Gliscor and defensive Landorus-T, surviving their super effective hits and OHKOing them back with its boosted attacks. Magearna should avoid trying to set up if checks like Mega Swampert, Victini, Volcarona, and Mega Charizard X are present and wait until they are dealt with before going for the sweep. Make sure to scout for any unexpected super effective coverage such as Fire Fang from Mega Mawile and Tectonic Rage from Protean Greninja. Despite being a solid answer to Weavile, Knock Off removes Magearna's Aguav Berry or Leftovers and reduces its longevity, especially if entry hazards are on the battlefield. This set is geared towards offense and hyper offense teams, which value its defensive utility as a Steel-type and capability as a Calm Mind sweeper. Magearna appreciates wallbreakers like Tapu Lele and Kyurem-B punching holes through opposing teams and breaking down the likes of Chansey, Heatran, and opposing Magearna. On hyper offense teams, a dedicated lead such as Mega Diancie, Taunt Mew, Landorus-T, or Excadrill is greatly appreciated, setting up entry hazards to help Magearna. Mega Diancie is especially notable, as it can bait in and use Substitute + Endeavor to potentially eliminate the likes of Heatran, Chansey, and defensive Magearna, all of which can take on Calm Mind Magearna. Serperior is a solid partner for Magearna, utilizing Taunt + Leaf Storm to beat Chansey one-on-one and Glare to cripple Pokemon faster than Magearna, such as Excadrill, Mega Medicham, and Mega Charizard Y, potentially sacrificing itself to do so. The chance of full paralysis also grants Magearna extra opportunities to set up Calm Mind, giving Magearna better chances to force through the likes of opposing Calm Mind Magearna and Heatran. Physical setup sweepers such as Gyarados, Dragonite, and Mega Charizard X are also solid partners, as they can force damage against shared checks like opposing Magearna and Toxapex for the other to clean up later in the game and take Fire-type attacks aimed at Magearna. Additionally, the former two, as well as Charizard before Mega Evolving, can set up against Choice Scarf Landorus-T locked into Earthquake thanks to their Ground immunity. In return, Magearna handles the likes of Weavile, Ash-Greninja, and Mega Alakazam. Mega Pinsir also enjoys partnering with Magearna, softening the likes of Celesteela and Ferrothorn while Magearna covers Rock-types like Mega Diancie and Choice Scarf Tyranitar and pressures Zapdos. Magearna also enjoys pairing with Volcarona, as it can threaten Steel-types like Mega Scizor and Celesteela. Additionally, they can pressure Chansey together, forcing it to burn through its Soft-Boiled PP, with Volcarona being able to potentially outplay it with Substitute + Swarm. Kommonium-Z Kommo-o is another solid teammate for Magearna and greatly appreciates the removal of Fairy-types like Clefable and Tapu Lele to clean up later in the game. Cresselia provides a safe switch-in against Ground-type moves aimed at Magearna as well as crucial support with Thunder Wave to cripple faster Pokemon like Mega Alakazam and Lunar Dance to grant Magearna another chance to sweep. Shift Gear gives Magearna a quick fix to its mediocre Speed, allowing it to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame as well as common Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T and Victini, with Soul-Heart then letting it quickly spiral out of control once it cannot be revenge killed. Focus Blast powered up into All-Out Pummeling allows Magearna to blow past Steel-types like Heatran and Ferrothorn after they take even little chip damage. Fleur Cannon hits neutral targets hard and complements Focus Blast well. It can also be paired with Fairium Z to great effect, removing the Special Attack drop and allowing Magearna to start accruing Soul-Heart boosts. Thunderbolt allows Magearna to super effectively hit Toxapex and Celesteela, which are unbothered by Magearna's other moves, as well as hitting Pokemon like Victini and Mega Scizor neutrally. It can also be paired with Electrium Z to give Magearna an easier time versus the aforementioned Pokemon, especially when boosted by Electric Terrain. Ice Beam allows Magearna to safely dispatch Ground-types like Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Garchomp and heavily damage other Ice-weak Pokemon like Tapu Bulu and Zapdos without needing to use Fleur Cannon or Twinkle Tackle. Calm Mind can be used alongside Shift Gear to make the most of any setup opportunity Magearna gets, letting it bypass its reliance on getting a KO to boost its power, usually utilizing a combination of Fleur Cannon and either Focus Blast to hit Ferrothorn or Thunderbolt to hit Toxapex. Either Fightinium Z or Fairium Z can be used on Magearna variants featuring both Focus Blast and Fleur Cannon; if your team already has sufficient measures to deal with Steel-types, Fairium Z is the best option for taking on the wider metagame. Electrium Z eases Magearna's toughest matchups against Fire-types like Victini and Mega Charizard Y and synergizes well with Electric Terrain. Leftovers can be used to help Magearna weather hits while setting up, which is useful for the Calm Mind variant, though variants using three attacks prefer holding a Z-Crystal to maximize their power. Wiki Berry can be used in a similar fashion, being much more helpful if Magearna takes a big hit like Choice Specs Tapu Koko's Thunderbolt, potentially putting it out of range of strong priority like Ash-Greninja's Water Shuriken. Shift Gear Magearna is best used as an endgame cleaner, with its ability Soul-Heart making it the perfect fit for the role, as it punishes any sort of sacrifices the opponent makes, even when Magearna doesn't claim the KO itself. Because of this, and because of its complete lack of investment in bulk, it's unwise to allow Magearna to take hits throughout a game. It's often a better idea to conserve HP to afford Magearna more opportunities to set up late-game, additionally affording it comfort against priority attacks. Common Pokemon that can outspeed and revenge kill Magearna after a Shift Gear boost can be counted on one hand: Unburden-boosted Hawlucha, Sand Rush Excadrill in sand, Swift Swim Mega Swampert in rain, and Choice Scarf Kartana if Magearna has been chipped significantly prior. If any of these are present on the opposing team, it's wise to wait until they have been handled before going for a sweep. Magearna finds its ideal setup opportunities against Pokemon like Mega Alakazam and Rotom-W that cannot immediately threaten it, although due to its good natural bulk and wonderful typing, it can find setup opportunities against the majority of the metagame if it needs to. Thunder Wave from would-be setup fodder like Ferrothorn and Clefable can hinder Magearna's sweep attempt, so it should be scouted prior. This set is suited for offense and hyper offense teams that value its perfect toolkit as a cleaner. It's a good idea to pair Magearna with a defensive Steel-type, like Heatran or Ferrothorn, as it can't fulfill its typical duties as a defensive Steel-type when it has no bulk investment and needs to be preserved for later in the game. Wallbreakers like Choice Specs Tapu Lele and Mega Medicham can soften up opposing teams, with the former being especially good at baiting in and weakening common switch-ins to Magearna, such as opposing defensive Magearna, Heatran, and Chansey. Rotom-W can check Mega Swampert and Sand Rush Excadrill, helping Magearna's team outlast them until it can boost and sweep. Ash-Greninja can chip away at Assault Vest Magearna and Ferrothorn as well as set Spikes, clearing the way for Magearna to sweep. Although niche, on hyper offense teams, Magearna appreciates dual screens and Aurora Veil support from the likes of Tapu Koko and Alolan Ninetales, respectively. Tapu Koko is another great hyper offense teammate, boosting the power of Magearna's Thunderbolt and Gigavolt Havoc and setting dual screens. Twinkle Tackle allows for a one-time KO on many common neutral targets such as Gliscor, Clefable, Manaphy, Tapu Lele, and Landorus-T. Once it is used up, Fleur Cannon can still be used as a powerful STAB move with no major drawback, as claiming a KO will give a Soul-Heart boost, which counteracts the Special Attack drop. Focus Blast is a solid coverage option that allows it to break through Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Heatran. Thunderbolt deals good damage to Toxapex and Celesteela while also allowing Magearna to not waste its Fairium Z on Pokemon like Tornadus-T. If Magearna's teammates can cover the breaking of bulky Water- and Steel-types, other coverage moves can be looked at. Flash Cannon can be used as another solid neutral STAB option that doesn't lower Special Attack, while Ice Beam hits Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gliscor, allowing Magearna to preserve its Z-Move against them. As this version of Magearna benefits from underspeeding opposing Pokemon, a Quiet nature with 0 Speed IVs is preferable to become as slow as possible. Fairium Z allows Magearna to deal massive damage to neutral targets, which helps make use of the limited turns of Trick Room. Electrium Z can also be used to break past Toxapex and Celesteela, while Fightinium Z threatens Heatran and Ferrothorn. Trick Room Magearna typically forgoes its defensive duties in favor of becoming a dangerous late-game cleaner. It takes advantage of its solid bulk to help it set up Trick Room after the opposing team is weakened into range of its attacks. As a result, it doesn't really want to switch into hits early in the game, lest it become too chipped to sweep. Once Trick Room is set, you want to prioritize OHKOs on the opponent, as its turns are limited. This might entail using Magearna's Z-Move immediately in order to start stacking Soul-Heart boosts. Strong Psychic- and Fairy-types are great partners for Magearna. Choice Specs Tapu Lele is great in this regard, as it deals solid damage to Steel-types that check Magearna, such as Heatran, Ferrothorn, and opposing Magearna, as well as providing Psychic Terrain to block priority such as Ash-Greninja's Water Shuriken and Mega Medicham's and Mega Lopunny's Fake Out, with the latter being a way to stall Trick Room turns. Mega Mawile does similar things in regards to overwhelming shared checks and can potentially benefit from the Trick Room that Magearna can set. Spikes setters such as Greninja and Ferrothorn also make great teammates, as Spikes further chip the opponent's grounded Pokemon. Rotom-W is also a good fit alongside Magearna, as it checks Heatran and Ground-types like Landorus-T while spreading burn on Magearna answers such as Toxapex and opposing Magearna. Though uncommon, Magearna can also be used as a Trick Room setter on full Trick Room teams, as its defensive typing can allow it to set Trick Room multiple times; on these teams, it doesn’t need to preserve bulk to sweep because its teammates typically do the wallbreaking themselves. Confide has more PP than Heart Swap, meaning it can better go the distance against Calm Mind users and not be stalled out of PP. Normalium Z can be paired with Heal Bell or Confide to provide a consistent way for Magearna to heal itself to full. Explosion can be used on Assault Vest sets to take a chunk out of Volcarona and quickly get in another teammate. Shuca Berry can be used alongside Ice Beam to allow Magearna to remove Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Gliscor or let it get a turn of free setup. A spread of 248 HP / 176 SpA / 84 Spe can be used on Assault Vest sets to pose more of a threat in exchange for some of its bulk, with the Speed EVs allowing it to outspeed uninvested Mega Scizor and the rest dumped into HP and Special Attack. Choice Scarf is another option, allowing Magearna to lure Ground-types with Ice Beam and act as a revenge killer and somewhat fast pivot. Substitute can be used with Calm Mind to block status attempts like Toxapex's Scald and Ferrothorn's Thunder Wave as well as Leech Seed from Ferrothorn and Celesteela.
Magearna (SS competitive strategy): Magearna is blessed with a strong typing that allows it to check Yveltal, one of the most prominent Pokemon in Ubers. Magearna also has a pivoting move in Volt Switch and is the only Steel-type that can provide cleric support, fulfilling a very unique role. However, it directly competes with Necrozma-DM as a Steel-type on most teams, which tends to outclass it, and can only fit on specific team archetypes. It also cannot beat Xerneas, which can outdamage the healing Pain Split and Leftovers provide. Its role as a cleric is also contested by the likes of defensive Xerneas, Blissey, and Calyrex-S, which can fit on more team styles and provide more overall utility. Fleur Cannon's high Base Power lets Magearna potentially OHKO offensive Yveltal and always OHKO Zekrom. Volt Switch provides momentum, allowing Magearna to pivot from unfavorable matchups. Pain Split keeps Magearna healthy against foes with large base HP such as Yveltal, Eternatus, and Ho-Oh. Heal Bell is used for valuable cleric support. Defensive Ho-Oh is a fantastic partner for Magearna, mitigating its weakness to Geomancy Xerneas and taking advantage of common switch-ins to Magearna like Ferrothorn. Galarian Darmanitan is a good partner that can create a pivot core and take advantage of bulky Ground-types that Magearna invites in, such as Groudon and Landorus-T. Magearna's cleric support allows Zarude to run Synthesis instead of Jungle Healing and Calyrex-S to more easily run Nasty Plot on Trick sets. Setup sweepers such as Swords Dance Groudon, Calm Mind Kyogre, and Dragon Dance Zygarde-C appreciate Magearna's cleric support. Eternatus is another good partner that can deal with most Kyogre sets. A specially defensive set with Power Swap can help Magearna beat Xerneas, but it is entirely outclassed by Necrozma-DM outside of not being trapped by Magnezone.
Grapploct (SS competitive strategy): Grapploct is unviable in SS ZU, because it is entirely outclassed as a bulky offensive Fighting-type by Throh and Gurdurr due to their better abilities, overall bulk, and access to Knock Off. Grapploct attempts to work as a bulky attacker and trapper with its solid bulk and above average Attack stat. However, it is entirely outclassed by Throh and Gurdurr, which have better overall bulk, abilities that let them absorb Toxic and Will-O-Wisp, and Knock Off to help them force progress against their checks.
Zygarde (XY competitive strategy): Zygarde is often ridiculed due to its low stats for a supposed titular legendary and is subsequently dismissed as an "inferior Garchomp". However, its very well-placed stats grant it great bulk, decent power, and usable Speed. Dragon- and Ground-type STAB is a powerful combination, able to hit nearly the entire tier for at least neutral damage. Zygarde has great boosting options as well, namely Dragon Dance and Coil, the latter of which is unique to Zygarde in the OU environment. While its offensive movepool is shallow, it is solid enough to threaten a majority of opposing Pokemon and also includes Extreme Speed. That said, Zygarde lacks immediate power compared to its fellow Dragon-type Pokemon and has an unfortunately useless ability. It also does not have a reliable Dragon-type attack, which can limit its sweeping ability. It takes a tad longer for Zygarde to become a threat compared to other Dragons, but that does not make it any less of one. Substitute blocks status and various weaker attacks and also guards Zygarde against faster Pokemon. Coil is an enhanced Bulk Up, boosting Zygarde's Attack, Defense, and accuracy, which ensures a perfectly accurate Dragon Tail. This allows Zygarde to become exceptionally tanky. Earthquake is Zygarde's most reliable attack and offers good power. Dragon Tail prevents slower phazers from forcing out Zygarde's Substitute, while also hitting airborne Pokemon and forcing out unfavorable matchups or opposing stat boosters. 56 Speed EVs allow Zygarde to outspeed Bisharp and hit it with Earthquake before Zygarde can be hit with Knock Off. The rest of the EVs are used to maximize Zygarde's special bulk. It has enough HP investment to create 101 HP Substitutes, which allows Zygarde's Substitute to tank two Seismic Tosses before breaking. Maximum Special Defense prevents weaker special attacks such as Mega Venusaur's Giga Drain from breaking Zygarde's Substitute, while Coil makes up for its Defense. Zero Attack EVs ensure STAB Foul Play will not break the Substitute, so it would be unwise to invest in Attack. Leftovers is the essential item, allowing Zygarde to recover health lost from Substitute. SubCoil Zygarde has a great advantage against defensive teams, setting up easily on Pokemon such as Mega Venusaur, Mandibuzz, Tyranitar, Ferrothorn, bulky Mega Scizor, and Heatran. Zygarde can set up a Substitute against the many foes unable to break it, then boost away. Should any problematic Pokemon trouble Zygarde, it can Dragon Tail them away behind the safety of the Substitute, and might even drag out the opponent's setup fodder again; continually repeating this will easily wear down Zygarde's checks. Specially based Fairy-types, especially Unaware Clefable and Togekiss, can pose a problem due to their immunity to Dragon Tail, so Pokemon that can threaten them make good partners; Scizor, Mega Charizard Y, and Mega Venusaur are good options. Draco Meteor and Ice Beam are two special attacks Zygarde fears greatly, so Pokemon that resist one or preferably both of these moves make great partners; Azumarill, Sylveon, and Scizor come to mind. Entry hazard users make helpful teammates, as they can maximize the effectiveness of Zygarde's Dragon Tail, and Pokemon such as Heatran and Skarmory can even cover Zygarde's weaknesses; however, it is worth mentioning that the hazards do not stay long, as Zygarde does not do a good job of preventing Rapid Spin or Defog, so they are not essential. If you do choose a hazard user, make sure to have a response against anti-hazards on your team, such as spinblockers or Defiant Pokemon; Bisharp makes a great teammate as it can deal with Fairy-types as well. Pokemon immune to Ground-type moves such as bulky Flying-types and Pokemon with Levitate can pose some issues for Zygarde, as they can force Zygarde to use its negative priority Dragon Tail, allowing them to respond accordingly by either healing or breaking Zygarde's Substitute. Thundurus can threaten a good majority of available Flying-types as well as Levitate users. Teammates should pick up the slack against offensive teams that do not provide Zygarde an opportunity to set up. VoltTurn users such as Talonflame and Thundurus can easily harass offensive teams, but slower users such as Scizor and Rotom-W can instead try to bring Zygarde in safely. Pokemon that can spread paralysis can slow down offensive Pokemon so they too fall victim to Zygarde, thus making Klefki and Thundurus good partners—Klefki even provides Spikes for Zygarde's Dragon Tail. Dragon Dance boosts Zygarde's Attack and Speed, readying Zygarde to sweep its opponent. Earthquake provides solid damage with no drawbacks, making it Zygarde's most reliable attack and premier sweeping move. Outrage hits hard after a single boost, but locks Zygarde in and confuses it afterward; however, it is effective at cleaning up opponents late-game. Stone Edge hits Togekiss and picks off Flying-types such as Thundurus and Tornadus-T without resorting to Outrage. Extreme Speed can be used to outpace opposing priority users, most notably Talonflame and Mamoswine, though their inability to OHKO Zygarde anyway means Extreme Speed isn't too necessary. Maximum Attack investment with an Adamant nature provides Zygarde with greater sweeping potential after a single Dragon Dance, and maximum Speed investment ensures Zygarde Speed ties with neutral Kyurem-B, and also outspeeds neutral Mega Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Jolly Gyarados. Alternatively, Jolly with 164 Speed EVs outruns Mega Alakazam and Mega Aerodactyl at +1, though the lack of an Attack-boosting nature substantially drops Zygarde's power, not to mention the relative rarity of these threats. The remaining EVs can be placed in any other stat. Life Orb can be used to give Zygarde a significant power boost, considering its base Attack is not as good as other Dragons, but it cuts into Zygarde's bulk, an advantage it does have over other Dragon-types. Lum Berry allows Zygarde to set up on status users, such as Rotom-W, Chansey, and Gliscor, or snap Zygarde out of Outrage confusion. Yache Berry allows Zygarde to survive non-STAB Ice-type moves, allowing Zygarde to either set up on them or prevent itself from being revenge killed. Dragon Dance Zygarde's greatest advantage over Dragonite is its resistance to Stealth Rock, lessening the need for entry hazard removal from teammates. This set is very straightforward: boost once (twice if possible) and start attacking. Between the boosted Speed, high bulk, and a powerful STAB combination, Dragon Dance Zygarde can pose a serious threat to offensive teams. Zygarde should optimally be set to sweep after one Dragon Dance, cleaning up with a speedy and powerful Earthquake or Outrage. Ground resistant or immune Pokemon, or physically bulky Pokemon such as Hippowdon, should be removed before going for the sweep, so as to avoid being forced into using Outrage early. Hard-hitting offensive Pokemon such as Thundurus and Azumarill do a great job at wreaking havoc and softening up opposing teams, which can pave the way for Zygarde to clean things up. When running Extreme Speed, it allows Zygarde to perform the occasional revenge kill on weakened Pokemon such as Talonflame. Zygarde uses its good bulk and resistances to tank a hit and set up, or threatens foes with STAB Earthquake to gain free turns. If Life Orb is used, take care not to let Zygarde's health drop too low before setting up. Rotom-W is a great partner regardless of the coverage option; it takes on Togekiss for Zygarde that lack Stone Edge and can handle Talonflame and Mamoswine for Zygarde without Extreme Speed. While Stealth Rock benefits any offensive Pokemon, it is especially helpful for Zygarde, as it weakens a good majority of Ground-resistant Pokemon, which allows Zygarde to pick them off with its weaker move as opposed to using Outrage to KO them. Because Flying-type Pokemon and Levitate users can get in the way of a clean sweep, teammates that can handle these Pokemon are recommended. Kyurem-B, Thundurus, and Raikou are great anti-Flying-type measures, while luring and hurting a good majority of Levitate users as well. Zygarde finds it easier to set up on opponents weak to Ground-type moves; Talonflame lures in Rock-types or Steel-types such as Heatran and Tyranitar and U-turns away from them. Dual screens aren't necessary, but they ease Zygarde's job of setting up, while its natural bulk makes it even more challenging to take down behind them; Klefki, Azelf, or Latios can provide this support. Dragon Dance boosts Zygarde's Attack and Speed, which allows Zygarde to sweep its foe when set up. Rest completely heals Zygarde of any damage and status and is best used when Zygarde has taken a beating from attacks and status moves while boosting with Dragon Dance, undoing your opponent's efforts and threatening them with a fresh, boosted Zygarde. Earthquake is Zygarde's most reliable attack and main sweeping move. The last move of choice complements Earthquake well. Outrage hits very hard after a boost or two, but locks Zygarde into the move and confuses it afterward. Stone Edge hits Togekiss and picks off other Flying-types such as Thundurus and Mega Pinsir without needing to confuse Zygarde, but it lacks STAB and can fall short on KOing most other Pokemon that resist Ground. Maximum Attack investment with an Adamant nature maximizes Zygarde's sweeping potential. 136 Speed EVs allow Zygarde to outspeed Choice Scarf Terrakion at +2 Speed, likely the fastest Choice Scarf Pokemon one will see. This also allows Zygarde to outspeed Noivern at +1 Speed and conveniently outspeeds unboosted Adamant Dragonite. The remaining EVs go into HP, which gives Zygarde enough bulk to survive 2 Fire Blasts from Mega Charizard Y. The combination of Chesto Berry and Rest acts as a Full Restore, allowing Zygarde to set up freely on status users such as Rotom-W, Chansey, and Gliscor, then heal itself completely when the time is right so that Zygarde can sweep its foes unhindered by health or status concerns. This Zygarde set aims to use Dragon Dance a couple of times while taking damage and/or status, then use Rest to refresh itself and sweep with a good amount of health and boosts. With its great bulk, it can set up on numerous Pokemon that have trouble 2HKOing it, so long as they do not have Ice-type moves; this includes such Pokemon as Excadrill, Mega Scizor, Rotom-W, Mega Venusaur, Ferrothorn, Gengar, Mega Charizard Y, Chansey, Gliscor, and Terrakion. Alternatively, Zygarde can start getting boosts against Pokemon it can force out, such as Excadrill, Heatran, and Tyranitar, though the risk of Ice Punch makes the last option risky. Zygarde can also take advantage of weaker Choice-locked attacks, such as Terrakion's Stone Edge, Keldeo's Secret Sword, and Garchomp's Earthquake. Dragon Dance Rest Zygarde works best against balanced teams, where it exploits their weak links to set up and uses its combination of bulk, Speed, and strong dual STAB moves to overwhelm its foes, which are often unprepared to deal with the threat. Zygarde should only face an opponent that it can handle for certain, as Resting too early without getting enough boosts may cut its sweep short, and Zygarde likely won't get a chance to do it again. Zygarde's main spamming move is Earthquake, making Flying-types and Levitate users notable annoyances. Stealth Rock can clip the wings of the former, with Clefable, Ferrothorn, Tyranitar, and Heatran being good users of the move. These Pokemon do not clash weaknesses with Zygarde, unlike most Ground-type Stealth Rock users such as Landorus-T and Hippowdon. Tyranitar can take on most Flying-types, while Ferrothorn and Heatran offer decent defensive synergy alongside Leech Seed and burn support, respectively. Kyurem-B, Thundurus, and Raikou are great anti-Flying-type measures, luring and hurting a good majority of Levitate users as well. Fairy-types can be a huge obstacle in Zygarde's path, most notably physically defensive variants of Clefable and Togekiss; Steel-types such as Scizor, Excadrill, Magnezone, and Heatran can take out these Pokemon. Additionally, Scizor can use U-turn to bring Zygarde in safely or Pursuit trap Latios and Latias, Excadrill can weaken or take out the opponent's Ground-type checks, Magnezone can trap Skarmory and has a slow Volt Switch which also takes care of Flying-types, and Heatran can spread burns to ease Zygarde's setup. Because this Zygarde aims to rack up multiple boosts and has the means to heal off any damage and status incurred, dual screens would heavily boost this set's effectiveness, with Klefki, Azelf, and Latios making great users. Klefki has Prankster Thunder Wave to slow down threats and has decent defensive synergy with Zygarde, Azelf can set up Stealth Rock or Taunt Defoggers, and Latios can use Memento to bring Zygarde in safely. Glare is essentially a superior Thunder Wave, as it is just as accurate and can also paralyze Ground-types. Earthquake is Zygarde's most reliable STAB move and targets grounded Electric-types such as Raikou and Mega Manectric, which cannot be paralyzed. Dragon Tail phazes foes, bringing out new opponents for Zygarde to paralyze. Substitute is used to take advantage of the free turns its paralyzed foes give, especially those that repeatedly switch in with the intent of shielding their teammates from the same fate, and it also guards against status such as burn and poison. Because Zygarde cannot boost its Defense with Coil anymore, Defense is maxed out to tank physical attacks. Zygarde's impressive physical bulk lets it serve as an emergency check to a huge variety of physical attackers, such as Mega Pinsir, Talonflame, Mega Tyranitar, Landorus-T, and Terrakion, as well as unboosted foes such as Garchomp, Gyarados, and even Mega Charizard X, which Zygarde can paralyze or phaze. 56 Speed EVs are run to hit Bisharp with Earthquake before it can hit Zygarde with Knock Off. This Zygarde set aims to spread paralysis on everything. From there, it can Earthquake grounded Electric-types, use Substitute against status users so they do not impede Zygarde's job and shorten its staying power, and use Dragon Tail to phaze out paralyzed opponents so Zygarde has new foes to Glare. If the opponent persists in repeatedly sending out their already paralyzed Pokemon, Zygarde may take advantage by using Dragon Tail or Substitute on the switch, or make use of their paralysis by setting up a free Substitute. Attackers that have trouble outspeeding opponents, such as Mega Heracross and Bisharp, greatly appreciate Zygarde's paralysis support, especially because paralysis affects Flying-types and cannot be Defogged away, unlike Sticky Web. This set's performance is greatly enhanced by entry hazards, as it forces a lot of switches; Klefki, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory can lay down Spikes while covering Zygarde's weaknesses, while Heatran and Tyranitar can provide Stealth Rock support, with more offensive variants even taking advantage of paralyzed foes. Rotom-W, Thundurus, and Gliscor are immune to both paralysis and Earthquake, making them big obstacles; Mega Venusaur, Sylveon, Clefable, and Kyurem-B can take on all three for the most part, although Kyurem-B does stack weaknesses, which is more prominent, as this Zygarde is a defensive variant. Camouflage may be used to remove most of Zygarde's weaknesses and give it STAB Extreme Speed, but Dragon Dance and Coil gives Extreme Speed the same boost and powers up Zygarde's other moves instead of weakening them like Camouflage does by removing their STAB. Land's Wrath is completely inferior to Earthquake, so don't let its title of "signature move" tempt you. Haze lets Zygarde stop setup sweepers, but Zygarde lacks the tools or offensive presence to deter most foes from setting up again, plus it has Dragon Tail anyway. Toxic can cripple some of Zygarde's bulkier checks, but none of its sets really have the moveslot for it. RestTalk + Dragon Tail can improve Zygarde's longevity, but Hippowdon makes a better bulky phazer due to its better recovery and spare moveslots.
Zygarde (SS competitive strategy): Zygarde's great typing makes it extremely versatile, allowing it to be either an offensive setup sweeper or play a more supportive role thanks to its equally great bulk and movepool. Activating Power Construct and its massive base HP boost, alongside great physical bulk, allows it to check potent wallbreakers such as Marshadow without the need for a type advantage or move prediction. However, its typing is a double-edged sword, as it makes it weak to the very common Dragon-, Fairy-, and Ice-type moves that most Pokemon run in Ubers. Prior to Power Construct activating, its bulk isn't amazing and can thus be dealt with rather quickly by a strong attack. Dragon Dance gives Zygarde some much needed wallbreaking power and Speed. Substitute is extremely valuable to Zygarde, as it inherently wishes to get below 50% as quickly and safely as possible so that Power Construct triggers. Glare gives you more chances to set up a Substitute and boost with Dragon Dance. Toxic is the only tool Zygarde has to hit Shedinja, a Pokemon that otherwise blanket walls it. It also limits the longevity of the opponent's physically defensive walls. Dragon Tail guarantees Zygarde doesn't get phazed, as it's faster than every phazer in the metagame after just a single Dragon Dance, while also doing a fair bit of damage. 16 HP and 36 Defense EVs with an Impish nature guarantee that Zygarde-C's Substitute does not break from uninvested Ho-Oh's Brave Bird or Necrozma-DM's Sunsteel Strike. 232 Speed EVs allow it to outspeed maximum Speed Eternatus and Mewtwo after a boost. Zygarde struggles in front of Fairy- and Ice-type coverage and, as such, appreciates Steel-types such as Necrozma-DM, which can also provide Stealth Rock support. In return, Zygarde takes on the Fire-type attacks thrown their way. Ferrothorn sets Spikes, letting Thousand Arrows OHKO bulky Eternatus with one layer and Stealth Rock, while absorbing attacks from Kyogre, one of Zygarde's biggest checks. Toxic Spikes support is much appreciated, limiting the longevity of checks such as Tangrowth, opposing Zygarde, and defensive Kyogre, especially with Dragon Tail forcing the opponent into potentially unfavorable positions. Eternatus can set it up consistently while also absorbing it from your side, leaving Zygarde a clear pathway to switch in. Zygarde, in turn, is a switch-in to the Ground-type moves thrown Eternatus's way. Cleric support from Xerneas or Blissey is also appreciated, as Toxic and status from moves such as Sacred Fire can sometimes catch Zygarde off guard. Secondary setup sweepers like Swords Dance Groudon appreciate Zygarde weakening physical walls so that they can pick them off in case Zygarde falters. Coil boosts Zygarde's bulk, letting it take on opposing physical setup Pokemon such as Swords Dance Groudon, Dragon Dance Zygarde, and Substitute variants of Zekrom. Rest is the only way Zygarde has to recover HP and also turns it into a pseudo-status absorber. It also lets Zygarde take more advantage of its Complete forme's base HP increase. Glare is handy in checking physical attackers, giving Zygarde a chance to further boost its stats or get a Rest off. The 208 HP EVs make Leftovers efficient, while the 56 Speed EVs let Zygarde outspeed paralyzed Calyrex-S after transforming into its Complete forme. Answers to Xerneas, which might try to set up on Zygarde, are great partners. Necrozma-DM can switch in on Moonblast and set Stealth Rock for Zygarde or bother foes with Knock Off. Ho-Oh can also come in safely on Xerneas, while Zygarde answers to the potential Rock-type attacks thrown Ho-Oh's way. Blissey also pairs up quite nicely, alleviating the downsides of running Rest without Sleep Talk via Aromatherapy while also switching into Xerneas and Kyogre. This set bluffs a defensive Coil set by setting up with Coil, inviting in passive physically defensive Pokemon such as Ferrothorn and Tangrowth without Leech Seed to trap. Thousand Waves allows Zygarde to trap a foe and either set up on it with Coil and Scale Shot or guarantee a teammate switches in safely. Once Zygarde has fully boosted with Coil, use Scale Shot to raise its Speed and limit revenge killing options. Rest maximizes the opportunities for it to max out on boosts. 220 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature allow Zygarde at +6 to OHKO defensive Kyogre with Thousand Waves and defensive Ho-Oh with a four-hit Scale Shot. 96 Speed EVs allow Zygarde-C at +2 Speed to outspeed Choice Scarf positive nature base 90 Pokemon, notably Kyogre, which can OHKO with Ice Beam. 80 HP EVs make Leftovers efficient. The team support this Zygarde appreciates overlaps greatly with that of other offensive boosting sets. Entry hazard setters allow Zygarde to blow through teams when the conditions for it to trap something aren't ideal. Stealth Rock setters such as Necrozma-DM and Spikes setters like Ferrothorn appreciate Zygarde removing the likes of Eternatus and Ho-Oh, and they provide protection from Fairy-type attacks. Powerful wallbreakers such as Choice Specs Kyogre and Xerneas pave the way for Zygarde to try and sweep by softening foes. A set with both Thousand Waves and Thousand Arrows and Dragon Dance can be run to trap passive Pokemon and not rely on Scale Shot to beat Ho-Oh one-on-one, but it requires more setup and traps a narrower list of Pokemon, so it's not as common. Sleep Talk on the Coil set is an option to not leave Zygarde completely useless while it's asleep, but the utility Glare provides is far too much to let go of. Dragon Tail on the Coil set can remove opposing setup sweepers that might try to use Substitute to dodge the paralysis from Glare, but it comes at the cost of having less chances to set up.
Zygarde (SV competitive strategy): Thousand Arrows hits crucial targets like Primal Groudon, Ho-Oh, and Eternatus. Grounding airborne targets is fantastic and renders would-be checks like Ho-Oh and Yveltal unable to fulfill their roles properly.
Solgaleo (SS competitive strategy): Solgaleo's unique combination of Teleport and Future Sight coupled with its Steel typing gives it a defined role in Ubers as a defensive Steel-type that Magnezone cannot trap. Its decent bulk allows it to check both Xerneas and Eternatus. Unfortunately, Solgaleo is almost entirely outclassed by Necrozma-DM and other Steel-types like Ferrothorn, both offensively and defensively. Solgaleo has a niche on defensive teams for its ability to use Teleport to pivot against Magnezone, making it not lose to Xerneas teams with Magnezone, and it partners well with Kyogre and Marshadow thanks to Future Sight helping them break through their checks, most notably Eternatus. The combination of Future Sight and Teleport helps Solgaleo distinguish itself from Necrozma-DM. Future Sight hits targets like Eternatus and Buzzwole and is useful chip damage for many wallbreakers, while Teleport allows Solgaleo to safely bring in frail teammates. It is uncommon for Solgaleo to both set Future Sight and pivot with Teleport due to its weaknesses to common Pokemon like Yveltal, Groudon, and Kyogre, but both are useful tools to provide momentum to Solgaleo's team. Sunsteel Strike is required to check Xerneas. When trying to execute a Future Sight-based strategy in Ubers, teammates that can force Yveltal and Necrozma-DM out are critical, since Yveltal is immune to Future Sight and Necrozma-DM resists both of Solgaleo's STAB options. Good partners for this include Groudon, Zygarde, and Kyogre. Phazers can help by preventing certain foes from absorbing Future Sight, so teammates like Dragon Tail Eternatus can be useful. Eternatus is especially useful in defensively answering Yveltal and not allowing Necrozma-DM to absorb Future Sight thanks to Dragon Tail. Kyogre, most notably Choice Scarf variants, really appreciates Future Sight support helping it break past Eternatus. Frailer wallbreakers, like Marshadow, Dracovish, and Rayquaza appreciate Solgaleo bringing them in safely and the additional damage that Future Sight provides on their checks. Other offensive pivots like Galarian Darmanitan, Yveltal, and Urshifu-S are also good teammates, potentially forming a good momentum-based offensive core. Metal Burst allows Solgaleo to potentially OHKO Yveltal, which is especially useful if Solgaleo is paired with Calyrex-S. Choice Scarf Solgaleo could be used as an offensive Choice Scarf user that outspeeds Galarian Darmanitan and is not affected by Sticky Web. Dropping Sunsteel Strike makes Solgaleo a lot worse against Xerneas, but dropping anything else makes Solgaleo even more outclassed by Necrozma-DM.
Solgaleo (SV competitive strategy): Primordial Sea Solgaleo is most notable for its ability to wall Eternatus, and it also serves as a solid defensive answer to threats like Ultra Necrozma, Desolate Land Mega Blaziken, and non-Headlong Rush Kyurem-B. Psychic Noise deals respectable damage against Eternatus and prevents it, along with potential switch-ins like Arceus formes, from using Strength Sap. Flip Turn is boosted by Primordial Sea and can deal minor chip damage, while Teleport provides slow pivoting despite Solgaleo's high Speed. Gigaton Hammer pressures Fairy-types like Mega Audino and dissuades Blissey from attempting to block Strength Sap. Spikes can help reduce Solgaleo's passivity against many defensive Pokemon. An Impish nature guarantees Solgaleo isn't 2HKOed by Sheer Force Ultra Necrozma's Bolt Strike, while Jolly allows Solgaleo to outrun Mega Blaziken and Mega Gardevoir. Solgaleo is useful when paired with threats like Ultra Necrozma, which usually require specific allies to Imposter-proof. Defensively, Solgaleo struggles against threats like Moongeist Beam users, Ash-Greninja, and Mega Garchomp, making walls like RegenVest Primal Kyogre and Fur Coat Fairy-types good teammates. Solgaleo can be Imposter-proofed by numerous options, but RegenVest users in particular do not care about Psychic Noise and can maintain momentum.
Munkidori (SV competitive strategy): Munkidori is a strong special attacker and pivot. Its typing allows it to hit much of the tier for at least neutral damage with its STAB moves, with Sludge Bomb and Sludge Wave targeting Fairy- and Grass-types like Sylveon and Tsareena, while Psychic and Psyshock target Poison- and Fighting-types like Vileplume and Breloom. Munkidori's Nasty Plot set loves to capitalize on the switches that it forces against these Pokemon, and with its excellent Speed tier, it can outspeed common threats like Mienshao and Flygon. Munkidori's U-turn is also incredibly potent, as it easily spreads poison with Toxic Chain to chip away at walls like Diancie, Incineroar, and Umbreon so that it can KO them more easily later. It also runs moves like Focus Blast and Tera Blast Ground to hit its poison-immune checks such as Steel-types like Copperajah and Registeel and Poison-types like Alolan Muk. Trick can also limit opposing setup sweepers like Cresselia and Iron Thorns or cripple specially defensive walls upon switch-in like Bronzong and Alolan Muk. However, Munkidori is vulnerable to opposing Dark-types like Incineroar and Brute Bonnet and can be limited by Steel-types if not carrying sufficient coverage. Its poor bulk also means it can be easily revenge killed by faster Choice Scarf users like Inteleon and Infernape or Pokemon with priority such as Sucker Punch Toxicroak and Aqua Jet Basculegion. Sludge Bomb provides a greater chance of poisoning the foe, while Sludge Wave provides greater power. Psychic targets physical walls like Amoonguss and Galarian Slowbro. U-turn lets Munkidori pivot and possibly poison special walls switching in like Diancie and Incineroar. Trick cripples walls like Alolan Muk and Bronzong. Munkidori can run a Heavy-Duty Boots set if extra coverage is desired. Focus Blast and Tera Blast Ground both target common switch-ins like Incineroar and Copperajah, with the latter also hitting Alolan Muk. However, not running Choice Scarf means Munkidori cannot revenge kill foes like Kilowattrel, Choice Scarf Flamigo, and +1 Flygon. Munkidori typically chooses Tera Poison or Psychic for extra damage on its STAB attacks, but a defensive Tera type of Tera Flying also works on Munkidori, helping it avoid Earthquake from Flygon and retaining its Fighting resistance. Munkidori benefits from teammates that can break through special walls, such as Copperajah, Bronzong, and Alolan Muk, that it struggles to deal with itself. Physical wallbreakers like Flamigo, Flygon, and Golurk help to take care of the specially defensive Steel- and Dark- types that might otherwise give Munkidori trouble. In return, Munkidori handles physical walls like Amoonguss, Dragalge, Sylveon, and Avalugg. Entry hazard setters like Swampert and Klefki can be useful teammates, as their hazards alongside Munkidori's constant pivoting and threat of poison can help wear down foes over time and get them into range for Munkidori to finish them off. The poison caused by Toxic Chain makes bulky teammates like Avalugg, Vaporeon, and Sylveon good teammates, as it lets them stall out foes more easily with poison chipping away at them. At +2, Psychic OHKOes Galarian Slowbro and Avalugg, while Psyshock OHKOes Vileplume. A Nasty Plot-boosted Sludge Wave OHKOes Assault Vest Brute Bonnet, while Sludge Bomb gives Munkidori a higher chance to poison foes. Focus Blast lets Munkidori deal with Umbreon and Copperajah more easily, but boosted Tera Blast Ground can be used, as it handles Alolan Muk and Incineroar more reliably. U-turn could also be used as a last move so that Munkidori can support its team early-game, but it then heavily relies on its teammates to deal with Steel-types. Heavy Duty-Boots allows Munkidori to repeatedly switch in without concern for entry hazard chip damage, letting it use Nasty Plot repeatedly over the course of a battle. Tera Fighting is used to further boost Focus Blast's damage while letting Munkidori resist Dark-type attacks, while Tera Ground is used alongside Tera Blast to blow through checks like Alolan Muk. Tera Flying is used defensively against opposing Ground-type attackers like Swampert or Flygon, providing additional opportunities to boost with Nasty Plot. Pokemon that can overwhelm opposing Steel- and Dark-types are appreciated by Munkidori, so teammates like Cinccino, Porygon-Z, and Brambleghast pair well with it. Hazard setters like Swampert, Diancie, and Klefki can set up Stealth Rock or Spikes to further wear down opposing walls, and on hyper offense builds, hazard-setting leads like Froslass and Brambleghast work well alongside Munkidori. Since Dark- and Ground-types like Incineroar, Tera Dark Toxicroak, and Choice Scarf Flygon threaten Munkidori, teammates such as Diancie, Dragalge, and Talonflame provide switch-ins for these sweep-ending threats. Fake Out is a niche option that can be used on Toxic Chain sets with the intention of giving Munkidori as many opportunities as possible to poison the opposing Pokemon. Parting Shot can also be used as an alternative to U-turn, avoiding contact and lowering the foe's stats, but Munkidori's main draw is its ability to poison Pokemon without having to waste a turn using a status move like Toxic. Psychic Noise can also be used on pivot sets while attempting to chip down bulkier foes, preventing them from recovering while a more effective attacker switches in. Shadow Ball can be run alongside Tera Ghost to hit Bronzong, which otherwise walls Munkidori, and it can provide an immunity to priority moves like Mienshao's Fake Out and Breloom's Mach Punch. Grass Knot is a niche option alongside Tera Grass to target potential threats like specially defensive Swampert and Gastrodon but leaves Munkidori helpless against Steel-types. Tera Fairy can also be used as an alternative to Tera Fighting that maintains Munkidori's resistance to Fighting-type attacks at the cost of the potential boost to Focus Blast. Frisk is an option to regularly gain information on the foe's items but loses the potential status effects and chip damage of Toxic Chain.
Simipour (XY competitive strategy): Nasty Plot Simipour is one of ZU's premier wallbreakers and sweepers with its excellent combination of Speed and Special Attack, taking advantage of the many switches it forces due to its powerful STAB Hydro Pump to create progress for its team. Ice Beam acts as coverage for tmany Grass-type Pokemon like Simisage, Servine, and Gogoat. Hidden Power Grass is used as coverage for other Water-type Pokemon like Seaking and Politoed, while Substitute is used to ease prediction, help safely set up Nasty Plot, and bring Simipour closer to both Salac Berry and Torrent range. Simipour often struggles to switch in safely due to its poor bulk, so it appreciates pivoting teammates like Electabuzz, Vibrava, and Dustox. Grass-type teammates like Gogoat and Servine love Simipour's ability to take advantage of opposing Fire-type Pokemon like Magmar and Pignite, while Simipour appreciates their ability to take on opposing Water-type Pokemon like Politoed and Whiscash. Simipour also appreciates teammates that beat common Grass-types that resist its Hydro Pump like Magmar and Swoobat. Teammates like Sawsbuck, Klang, and Krokorok appreciate Simipour's ability to pressure common physical walls like Gigalith, Wigglytuff, and Gourgeist-L. Lastly, Simipour struggles greatly against Electabuzz, so specially defensive teammates like Bronzor and Swalot as well as Volt Switch-immune teammates like Vibrava, Krokorok, and Whiscash are greatly appreciated to help withstand its repeated assaults and dissuade Volt Switch. Choice Scarf Simipour excels as a revenge killer and cleanerwith its powerful STAB Hydro Pump augmented by excellent coverage in Ice Beam and Superpower, the former hitting Grass-types and the latter hitting Scraggy and special walls like Bronzor and bulky Klang for solid damage. Knock Off helps Simipour make progress early- and mid-game, removing key held items like Leftovers and Eviolite to benefit itself and its teammates. Hidden Power Grass can be used over Superpower to give Simipour a tool to hit opposing Water-types, but this means that it struggles with opposing Scraggy and has to rely more on Hydro Pump's shaky accuracy and limited PP against special walls. Simipour often struggles against opposing Water-type Pokemon, so Grass-type teammates like Servine and Electric-type teammates like Electabuzz are greatly appreciated to take them on. Simipour is also incredibly prediction-reliant against opposing Grass-types, so Fire-type teammates like Magmar and Pignite can help punish them if they switch safely into its STAB Hydro Pump. Teammates that can safely bring it in like Electabuzz and Vibrava also work well with Simipour, which has poor natural bulk. Lastly, Simipour loves having teammates with entry hazard support to weaken its checks, so partners like Gigalith, Bronzor, and Quilladin are greatly appreciated. Simipour can opt to run Knock Off on its Nasty Plot sets to remove opposing Eviolite and Leftovers instead of Substitute or Hidden Power Grass, but losing the former makes it very prediction-reliant, while losing the latter makes it struggle more against opposing Water-type Pokemon. Simipour can also run a Modest nature on Salac Berry sets to further increase its power, but having worse Speed often makes it not worth the tradeoff, considering that its excellent Speed is one of the main reasons to use it.
Simipour (SM competitive strategy): Simipour is one of the strongest special wallbreakers in ZU, with high Special Attack, a great Speed tier, and access to Nasty Plot. Backing this up is a good movepool, with an incredibly strong STAB move in Hydro Pump and great coverage moves like Ice Beam and Focus Blast. However, Simipour's power is offset by poor bulk, leaving it easily revenge killed by Choice Scarf users like Sawsbuck and Electivire. In addition, Simipour is generally outclassed as a Water-type wallbreaker by Floatzel; despite the fact that Simipour does have a higher Special Attack stat and access to Nasty Plot, Floatzel has higher Speed and can run Taunt more reliably compared to how unreliably Simipour can set up Substitute. Simipour also struggles with bulky Water-types, namely Silvally-Water and Mareanie, because it doesn't have the tools to deal heavy damage to them, even with Nasty Plot. Ice Beam is the set's main coverage move, hitting Grass-types such as Gourgeist-XL and Dragon-types like Silvally-Dragon and Altaria. Substitute, when used on a forced switch, can allow Simipour to safely set up or start breaking if it already is set up, preventing it from taking damage the next turn. Alternatively, Focus Blast can be run for added coverage, allowing Simipour to hit Normal- and Ice-types like Lickilicky, Komala, and Regice super-effectively. Waterium Z combined with Hydro Pump is incredibly strong, giving Simipour a one-time nuke; at +2, it can OHKO foes like Mareanie, Bronzor, specially defensive Komala, and Lickilicky, (the latter only after Stealth Rock), though you do need to win the mind game of Protect with Komala and Lickilicky. Using Substitute until Simipour is at Torrent range also gives Hydro Pump some additional power. +2 Torrent-boosted Hydro Pump can OHKO Pokemon like Lickilicky, Mareanie, and Komala after Stealth Rock, as well as 2HKO Pyukumuku. It's best to bring in Simipour through either pivots or double switches, to make sure that it takes as little damage as possible so it can set up safely. Setting up should be done on a predicted switch or when Substitute is up so it can wallbreak safely. However, unless there's a clean sweeping path ahead, it's best to wait to set up so you don't have to switch out, and lose the boost from Nasty Plot. Also, using Substitute to get into Torrent range to get some extra power out of Hydro Pump to break more effectively isn't a bad idea. In addition, thanks to Simipour's high Speed stat, it can be used to revenge kill Pokemon without setting up Nasty Plot. Finally, be careful of Protect when using Hydro Vortex. Some notable users of Protect include Komala and Lickilicky. Substitute can be used to scout for Protect, though. Since Simipour wants to avoid chip damage for safer setup and wallbreaking, a hazard remover like Rotom-F or Silvally-Dragon is highly appreciated. Similarly, hazard setters like Metang or Gabite are good partners for getting chip damage, allowing Simipour to KO foes more easily. Something that can switch into or beat its checks is also greatly appreciated. For example, Golem, Gourgeist-XL, and Silvally-Ground can switch into Electivire. Other great partners for Simipour are Pokemon that appreciate its wallbreaking abilities. Examples include Choice Scarf Chatot (for breaking Bronzor) and Monferno (for breaking Swanna). Finally, a slow pivot, such as Komala or Toucannon, that can get Simipour in more safely is appreciated. A Life Orb set running Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, Knock Off, and Superpower with a 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe spread and a Naive nature can be used for a power boost without having to waste a turn, and the physical coverage makes Simipour's matchup against things like Lickilicky and Misdreavus better, thanks to having physical coverage; however, the Nasty Plot set is generally preferred because it doesn't put Simipour on a timer and Nasty Plot gives a bigger boost than Life Orb. In addition, Life Orb's recoil makes Simipour easier to revenge kill, and mixed variants still suffer competition from Floatzel. Grass Knot can be run for alternative coverage, hitting foes like Silvally-Water, but this comes with the cost of either being walled by threats like Regice or having a harder time setting up. Taunt can be used to improve Simipour's matchup against stall, rendering answers like Bronzor and Pyukumuku worthless, but this hinders Simipour's matchup against offensive teams. If you choose to run Focus Blast, Fightinium Z can be run to OHKO Lickilicky without Stealth Rock, but Hydro Vortex provides more valuable OHKOes, and Hydro Vortex already OHKOs Lickilicky after Stealth Rock anyway. Hyper Beam with Normalium Z can be run to break bulky Water-types like Silvally-Water, but it's missing out on valuable OHKOs that Hydro Vortex provides, in addition to that, a +2 Hydro Vortex followed by Hydro Pump KOes most of the foes you would use Hyper Beam for, like Silvally-Water and Mareanie. Scald can be used over Hydro Pump for added accuracy and a shot at a burn, but it's much weaker, hindering Simipour's wallbreaking abilities. Salac Berry and Gluttony can be run with Substitute to make Simipour harder to revenge kill, but Simipour misses the one-time nuke that Waterium Z provides.
Orbeetle (SS competitive strategy): Despite a rather interesting support movepool, Orbeetle is an overall unviable choice in SS ZU. It suffers from a pretty poor defensive typing and general passivity before setting up. Most of what it can attempt to do is outclassed by more consistent options such as Galarian Rapidash, which has a better typing and ability. This set attempts to make use of Orbeetle's access to both Agility and Iron Defense, making it able to combine these moves with Body Press and Stored Power. However, Orbeetle often has trouble setting up due to a bad defensive typing and is rather passive before it can set up. Galarian Rapidash does a Stored Power sweeping set better due to its better Speed and typing as well as access to Pastel Veil, making it immune to Toxic.
Mimikyu (SM competitive strategy): Mimikyu has a solid place on UU offensive teams as a revenge killer and cleaner. Its STAB moves provide neutral coverage on the entire tier while its typing makes it one of the few Ghost-types that aren't forced out by Pursuit, and it can threaten most Dark-types such as Hydreigon and Krookodile with a super effective STAB Play Rough. Arguably, Mimikyu's biggest selling point is its brilliant ability in Disguise, which guarantees it a free turn without taking damage. This allows it to check and revenge kill faster offensive threats such as Latias, Mega Sharpedo, and Terrakion, as well as providing it with an opportunity to break through bulkier teams in conjunction with Swords Dance. Mimikyu can also act as a valuable spinblocker, as it is able to apply decent offensive pressure against Starmie and Tentacruel. However, Mimikyu's initial damage output can be rather underwhelming, as it struggles to be a threat to physically bulkier threats such as Amoonguss, and without the use of Wood Hammer, it is impossible for it to beat Quagsire and Pyukumuku. The omnipresence of Steel-types also hinders Mimikyu's ability to thrive in the tier, as even with multiple boosts, it can fail to break through bulkier Steel-types such as Mega Aggron, while offensive Steel-types like Cobalion can outspeed and OHKO it after its Disguise has been busted. Furthermore, while Disguise provides it with the ability to check a large number of Pokemon, Mimikyu is unable to switch into any of them, as once it loses its Disguise, it loses most of its utility. Its average Speed stat also means that it has to rely heavily on Disguise to check faster offensive threats such as Hydreigon or on a weaker move in Shadow Sneak in order to revenge kill foes. Swords Dance compensates for Mimikyu's otherwise average damage output, providing it with better chances to OHKO faster threats such as Latias, Celebi, and Gengar with Shadow Sneak. Play Rough is Mimikyu's most powerful Fairy-type STAB move, allowing it to beat targets such as Mega Altaria, Krookodile, and Hydreigon. Shadow Claw is its most powerful Ghost-type STAB attack and provides it with perfect neutral coverage. Shadow Sneak gives Mimikyu a priority move, compensating for its average Speed tier to revenge kill faster, weakened threats such as Latias, Terrakion, and Mega Aerodactyl. 252 EVs in Attack and Speed allows Mimikyu to hit as hard and as fast as possible. An Adamant nature helps boost Mimikyu's damage output and claim a number of KOs that a Jolly nature misses out on, such as OHKOing Krookodile with an unboosted Play Rough after Stealth Rock and OHKOing Choice Band Scizor with a +2 Shadow Claw after Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes. On the other hand, a Jolly nature is needed for Mimikyu to outpace non-Choice Scarf Krookodile, Nidoking, and Rotom-H, which can break its Disguise if they outspeed it, potentially costing it opportunities to set up and turns on the battlefield. Life Orb provides Mimikyu with a consistent damage output, making it the preferred item. However, Ghostium Z is a nice option, as Never-Ending Nightmare can help against Pokemon that it otherwise struggles to break through, being able to OHKO Cobalion and bulky Scizor sets at +2 after Stealth Rock, as well as doing the same to Amoonguss when running an Adamant nature. However, by forgoing Life Orb, Mimikyu misses out on a number of KOs against other threats, such as KOing offensive Mega Altaria with Play Rough and potentially taking out Gengar with Shadow Sneak after Stealth Rock. Most of Mimikyu's utility comes from its ability Disguise, so it is optimal to avoid letting Mimikyu take any hits, especially if there are offensive threats that Mimikyu can take out such as Latias. This is also applicable when trying to use Mimikyu as a spinblocker against Tentacruel or Starmie, because if they opt to attack instead of attempting to use Rapid Spin, Mimikyu's Disguise will be busted. In earlier stages of the game, Mimikyu should be used to revenge kill slower foes with Play Rough or Shadow Claw and revenge kill faster, weakened foes with Shadow Sneak, but it can also be used to switch in on Pokemon that it can comfortably check such as Latias and force them out. Mimikyu can also prevent opposing Pokemon from sweeping teams such as by KOing a boosted Mega Altaria with Play Rough or KOing a boosted Celebi, as it is guaranteed to survive a hit thanks to its Disguise. If Mimikyu is able to avoid situations where its Disguise has been broken, it can also potentially be used as a late-game cleaner, using its Disguise as a free opportunity to boost its Attack stat with Swords Dance, allowing it to break through bulker targets such as Hippowdon more easily and to KO faster foes from full with Shadow Claw such as Latias, Celebi, and opposing Mimikyu as long as their own Disguise is busted. Mimikyu is a staple Pokemon on hazard stacking teams, as it's immune to Rapid Spin, and entry hazards allow Mimikyu to claim a number of KOs that it normally would struggle to get, leading to it often being paired with hazard setters such as Froslass and Araquanid or offensive Stealth Rock setters such as Cobalion, Mamoswine, and Terrakion. It can also be used on bulkier teams as an offensive Fairy-type, commonly in place of Mega Altaria when the Mega slot has been filled by another Pokemon, filling the role of a much-needed check to threats such as Latias and Mega Altaria. Checks to Steel-types are mandatory for teams with Mimikyu, as it struggles to break through them and is KOed by all their Steel-type attacks. Noteworthy examples of these checks are Cobalion, Infernape, and Lucario. Cobalion is also able to provide an offensive Stealth Rock setter, while Infernape and Lucario significantly improve the team's matchup against stall, as they're both able to OHKO Quagsire with All-Out Pummeling after Stealth Rock or comfortably 2HKO it with Life Orb-boosted Focus Blast. All of these are also able to improve the matchup against Dark-types such as Hydreigon and Sharpedo. Other wallbreakers that commonly find themselves on hyper offense teams tend to perform well with Mimikyu. Dragonium Z Latias pairs brilliantly with Mimikyu, as it's able to take out Quagsire due to it ignoring Latias's Special Attack drops from Draco Meteor while pressuring Blissey with Psyshock and Steel-types with Hidden Power Fire. Mega Sharpedo can act as a valuable late-game cleaner while also being able to comfortably pressure Ghost-types that Mimikyu dislikes such as Gengar and Chandelure. Wood Hammer can be used over Shadow Claw to have an improved matchup against stall, as it's able to break through the classic Blissey \+ Alomomola \+ Quagsire core and also 2HKOes Pyukumuku. However, Mimikyu ends up taking a huge amount of recoil damage from this, often KOing itself in the process before being able to make a major dent in the team, and the loss of Shadow Claw means that it's completely unable to break through Steel-types and other bulky Fairy-resistant Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Rotom-H. Red Card can be a nice item to utilize Mimikyu's Disguise by forcing in a random Pokemon when it has been busted, either for a free setup turn or to force out an opposing setup sweeper.
Mimikyu (SS competitive strategy): Sporting good STAB moves, a decent Attack stat, and access to Swords Dance, Mimikyu is one of the premier setup sweepers in the tier. Mimikyu's viability stems from its ability, Disguise, which provides it with an opportunity to set up safely. Disguise can also be used to cleanly revenge kill foes such as Dragon Dance Flygon, Sharpedo, and Polteageist with its STAB moves, making it a great answer to hyper offense teams. Mimikyu synergizes well with most offensive Pokemon in the tier such as Tsareena, as Mimikyu can deal with Steel-types such as Registeel that often switch into Tsareena. Sharpedo also synergizes well with Mimikyu, as they both pressure Pokemon like Steelix. Despite Mimikyu's good Speed tier, with damage taken from Disguise being broken, entry hazards, and Life Orb recoil, it's easily revenge killed by faster foes such as Flygon, Crobat, and Raikou unless they're weakened enough to be KOed by Shadow Sneak. Mimikyu is also extremely weak without a boost, and even when it's boosted, foes like Milotic, Rhyperior, and Galarian Weezing can take it on. Shadow Sneak gives Mimikyu a method of picking off weakened faster threats that would otherwise revenge kill it such as Noivern and Choice Scarf Gardevoir. Shadow Claw allows Mimikyu to hit foes that resist Drain Punch or Play Rough such as Metagross, Chandelure, and Crobat. Drain Punch allows Mimikyu to hit Steel-, Dark-, and Normal-types like Registeel, Sharpedo, and Snorlax for super effective damage. Play Rough prevents Guzzlord from checking Mimikyu. In addition, without Play Rough, Mimikyu cannot 2HKO Milotic and Flygon at +2. Mimikyu can also run Play Rough and Drain Punch together over Shadow Claw for teams that want the benefits of both moves, but this generally leaves it weaker against the aforementioned targets of Shadow Claw. Mimikyu fits best on hyper offense or bulky offense teams that appreciate the insurance that Disguise provides against faster threats. Mimikyu appreciates teammates that can defeat Steel-types such as Chandelure, Lucario, and Pangoro, as Steel-types like Steelix and Registeel can prevent Mimikyu from sweeping. Pangoro and Lucario are particularly good teammates, as they serve to weaken or outright defeat Crobat. Spikes setters such as Klefki, Froslass, and Heracross are also appreciated, as they can chip foes such as Suicune, Rhyperior, and Steelix that would otherwise annoy Mimikyu. Bulky Water-types such as Milotic and Suicune all can prevent Mimikyu from sweeping and threaten to burn it with Scald. As a result, Grass-types such as Tsareena, Roserade, and Vileplume as well as Electric-types such as Xurkitree and Raikou pair well with it. Pokemon that work together with Mimikyu to weaken bulky Water-types, such as Flygon and Sharpedo, also make for good teammates. Wood Hammer is an option over Drain Punch or Play Rough to prevent bulky Water-types from beating Mimikyu, but it prevents Mimikyu from substantially damaging Steel-types with the exceptions of Bronzong and Metagross. In addition, Wood Hammer's recoil damage will greatly weaken Mimikyu, making it prone to getting revenge killed. Furthermore, most teams do not rely on their Water-types to defeat Mimikyu, so using Wood Hammer may ultimately be a fruitless endeavor. Lum Berry can be used to prevent Mimikyu from getting burned or badly poisoned by Suicune and Milotic, protecting it from having its sweep halted and allowing it to stay on the field longer. Red Card is an option to forcefully make setup sweepers such as Flygon exit the field. Thanks to Disguise, Mimikyu can also guarantee that it can set up Trick Room once. However, it should be noted that this is an inconsistent and niche playstyle, and Mimikyu doesn't have many tools to bring teammates in safely.
Mimikyu (SV competitive strategy): Mimikyu holds an interesting place in the tier, as its excellent ability and good STAB combination help gear it towards offensive structures as a revenge killer and late-game cleaner. Disguise gives Mimikyu a free turn that it can use to reliably set up Swords Dance. Disguise can also be used to revenge kill opposing Pokemon or force them out with Red Card, making Mimikyu a rather consistent answer to setup sweepers. Mimikyu is mainly held back by its mediocre stats; a low base Attack for its role leaves Mimikyu really struggling to break through some bulky Pokemon even at +2 like Hippowdon and Registeel. Most of its defensive utility comes from its ability, so setting up Swords Dance can be difficult with its low base HP after Disguise is broken. Its mediocre Speed and frailty make it prone to being revenge killed by faster threats that don't mind taking Shadow Sneak, such as Entei, Galarian Zapdos, and Choice Scarf Krookodile. Swords Dance Mimikyu occupies a unique place in the metagame as a setup sweeper and late-game cleaner that is used primarily because of the utility provided by its ability, Disguise, rather than purely because of its firepower. Since there are no viable Mold Breaker Pokemon in the tier, Disguise almost always guarantees Mimikyu a free turn to set up Swords Dance, which is incredibly valuable. Life Orb provides Mimikyu with much-needed extra firepower that can come in handy when attempting to dispatch offensive threats such as Galarian Zapdos and Kleavor or sweep after a Swords Dance. Red Card is an alternative that offers insurance by phazing out bulkier threats and setup sweepers that Mimikyu may not be able to easily take out such as Calm Mind Suicune, Swords Dance Bisharp, and Dragon Dance Gyarados; it also has the added possibility of bringing in a Pokemon like Cyclizar or Noivern that Mimikyu could use as setup fodder, in return for decreasing its damage. A Jolly nature with maximum Speed ensures that Mimikyu can outspeed a large chunk of the tier and, in particular, Kleavor and Krookodile. Tera Ghost strengthens Mimikyu's power as a sweeper and allows it to dish out heavy-hitting Shadow Sneak at +2, which can clean worn-down Pokemon like Noivern, Galarian Zapdos, and Gardevoir. Mimikyu fits best on hyper offense and offensive structures that rely on setup sweepers and strong attackers to overwhelm the opposing team and thus may not have the defensive resources necessary to easily take out a fast revenge killer or prevent a reverse sweep. Other notable setup sweepers such as Bisharp and Gyarados pair well with Mimikyu by chunking holes in the opposing team and possibly removing some of its key defensive checks such as Hippowdon and Talonflame, thus bolstering Mimikyu's ability to clean late-game. Mimikyu can act as a decent spinblocker against teams reliant on Cyclizar for entry hazard removal. It also appreciates its own hazards support, thus pairing well with Stealth Rock leads such as Kleavor and Terrakion, as they ease Mimikyu's job as a cleaner by wearing out the opposing team, which brings them closer to KO range after a Swords Dance. Mimikyu synergizes well with Future Sight users such as Slowbro and Reuniclus, as it prevents some Poison-type checks like Amoonguss from switching in. Status spreader partners such as Thunder Wave Slowbro and Will-O-Wisp Talonflame can cripple offensive threats such as Armarouge, Kleavor, and Galarian Zapdos, which gives Mimikyu more opportunities to pull off a sweep. Wood Hammer helps Mimikyu break past physically defensive walls like Hippowdon, Slowbro, and Quagsire, but the recoil can greatly wear down Mimikyu, especially if it's holding Life Orb. Drain Punch helps against Steel-types that can take a hit from Mimikyu like Bisharp, Empoleon, and Hisuian Goodra while recovering any recoil from Life Orb.
Ogerpon (SV competitive strategy): Ogerpon's high Attack and Speed, particularly after Terastallizing, along with its bevy of utility moves make it a reliable pivot and speed control that can disrupt the opposition. Knock Off gives Ogerpon a complementary coverage option to Ivy Cudgel and hits would-be checks like Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking; it also allows Ogerpon to support its team by permanently crippling its foes, particularly Stealth Rock-weak Pokemon like Dragonite, Moltres, and Kyurem that rely on Heavy-Duty Boots. U-turn is a fantastic option that can maintain momentum and chip down checks like Hydrapple while safely bringing in one of Ogerpon's teammates safely. Encore shuts down walls like Gliscor and Terastallized Garganacl as well as setup sweepers like Kingambit and Raging Bolt; after Terastallizing, its fast Encore is also helpful to shut down faster setup sweepers like Zamazenta. Ogerpon should feel right at home on bulkier teams in need of a fast pivot. It struggles to make progress against Fire-types such as Moltres and Heatran, often requiring them to be weakened or removed in order to start threatening teams. Thus, Garganacl and Gliscor make great teammates, as they manage to consistently switch into and threaten these Pokemon, set entry hazards for Ogerpon to take advantage of, and easily spread chip damage to wear down the opposing team. Ogerpon's ability to threaten Water-types like Primarina and Ogerpon-W is also greatly appreciated by both Pokemon. Alomomola is another valuable teammate thanks to its high bulk, low Speed, and access to Flip Turn allowing it to safely and consistently bring Ogerpon onto the field, as well as being able to check the likes of Zamazenta and Cinderace. Additionally, Ogerpon with another fast wallbreaker can make for an efficient and potent wallbreaking core; therefore, Pokemon such as Weavile and Deoxys-S that help overwhelm Ogerpon's checks like Corviknight and Moltres make excellent teammates. It also enjoys having these Pokemon as naturally faster teammates as opposed to relying on Terastallization for speed control, and it likewise appreciates them for being able to threaten bulkier Dragon-types like Dragonite and Raging Bolt. Lastly, special tanks such as Galarian Slowking and Ting-Lu can safely switch in on powerful special wallbreakers like Dragapult and Iron Moth, and they also appreciate Ogerpon's reliability in punishing switch-ins like Landorus-T. Choice Band Ogerpon whacks its way into the OU metagame with its nuclear Ivy Cudgel alongside the valuable Speed boost from Embody Aspect and great coverage options, letting it wallbreak while also revenge kill threats and potentially clean late-game as well. After Terastallization, Ogerpon can outrun and revenge kill Choice Scarf users like Hisuian Samurott and Enamorus and foes like Zamazenta, Darkrai, and Dragapult that outspeed it naturally as well as boosting Ivy Cudgel to 2HKO checks like Gholdengo. Knock Off allows Ogerpon to annoy many of its checks, such as Moltres, Zapdos, Pecharunt, and Galarian Weezing, while taking out Grass-resistant foes like Gholdengo, Galarian Slowking, and Dragapult. U-turn allows Ogerpon to chip its checks and bring a teammate in safely on its switchins while providing super effective coverage against Grass-types like Rillaboom, Hydrapple, as well as opposing Ogerpon formes. Low Kick allows Ogerpon to break through foes that can shrug off Ivy Cudgel fairly well such as Kingambit, Kyurem, and Heatran, while Rock Tomb drops Moltres, Dragonite, Iron Moth, and Zapdos, even doing so without risking an adverse contact effect like a Flame Body burn or Static paralysis. Ogerpon's main use is on balance and bulky offense teams as a wallbreaker and revenge killer, though it sees some play on offensive teams as a cleaner. Ogerpon is susceptible to entry hazard damage over the course of the game, so teammates like Great Tusk, Cinderace, and Corviknight that can remove said hazards from Ogerpon's side of the field are especially valued. Cinderace and Great Tusk in particular pair well with Ogerpon, as both appreciate roadblocks like Dondozo being taken down by Ogerpon, while they are able to deal with Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Heatran. Teammates that set hazards, such as Great Tusk, Hisuian Samurott, and Garganacl, synergize very well with Ogerpon and its ability to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from foes like Moltres and Corviknight. Offensive teammates like Deoxys-S, Gholdengo, and Iron Crown that threaten Ogerpon's checks like Galarian Weezing and Pecharunt are highly appreciated as well, while Ogerpon can bring them in on the aforementioned Poison-types with U-turn. Another great offensive teammate is Choice Specs Raging Bolt, as it obliterates the likes of Moltres, Zapdos, and Corviknight, while Ogerpon smashes Ground-types like Gliscor. Finally, slow pivots like Alomomola and Galarian Slowking work well with Ogerpon, as they give it free entry points to throw off its dangerous attacks without having to withstand powerful responses while checking threatening answers like Zamazenta.
Vivillon (XY competitive strategy): Because of its access to one of the most potent setup moves in the game, Quiver Dance, Vivillon is able to establish itself as one of the most threatening setup sweepers in the tier. However, this is not the only trait that makes Vivillon so strong; Vivillon also has access to a strong STAB move in Hurricane, a coverage move that complements Hurricane in Energy Ball, and a move that effectively creates setup turns in Sleep Powder. Vivillon's ability Compound Eyes also gives Hurricane 91 accuracy and Sleep Powder 97 accuracy. Unfortunately, Vivillon's poor defensive typing leaves it weak to a lot of common offensive types and gives it a crippling weakness to Stealth Rock. Vivillon's average Speed means it is typically overly dependent on Focus Sash for finding setup opportunities against offensive teams with common fast Pokemon, such as Floatzel, Archeops, and Scyther. Additionally, Vivillon is cursed with poor defenses, making it quite vulnerable to priority moves. One Quiver Dance boost is enough to allow Vivillon to outspeed and threaten every common Pokemon in NU, with the exception of Choice Scarf Rotom. Hurricane is very powerful, even without a boost, and is fairly reliable with Compound Eyes boosting its accuracy. Sleep Powder incapacitates the foe so Vivillon can safely set up. Energy Ball is Vivillon's best coverage option for dealing damage to common Flying-resistant threats, such as Lanturn and Rhydon. If Vivillon has been knocked down to its Focus Sash, Endeavor is an option to weaken a safe Vivillon switch-in, such as Assault Vest Magmortar or Klinklang, for another teammate. Maximum Special Attack and Speed investment with a Timid nature ensures Vivillon will be hitting as hard as possible while still outspeeding important threats, such as Kabutops. Focus Sash gives Vivillon more set up opportunities by allowing it to survive most attacks at full HP. Sharp Beak, while allowing for fewer setup opportunities, awards Vivillon's Hurricane with a significant boost in power. Compound Eyes boosts the accuracy of Hurricane and Sleep Powder, making them far more reliable. Vivillon should use Sleep Powder to incapacitate the opposing Pokemon for at least a turn to set up with Quiver Dance. Vivillon has the choice to be played as a lead to disrupt the opponent's team or as a late-game sweeper. Don't let Vivillon take unnecessary damage in case it needs its Focus Sash to set up or the extra health to survive a priority attack from the likes of Kabutops, Skuntank, and Swellow. Vivillon will find more setup opportunities by creating offensive pressure on slower Pokemon weak to Hurricane, such as Vileplume and Torterra. Vivillon can also force out or set up on Choice-locked Fighting-types, such as Primeape locked into Close Combat. Rapid Spin and Defog support from the likes of Sandslash and Shiftry is valued for Vivillon because of its Stealth Rock weakness. If you've forgone Sharp Beak on Vivillon, Stealth Rock and Spikes support is appreciated to assist in getting KOs Vivillon would fall short of, such as on Weezing and Vanilluxe. Torterra is a notable partner because of its ability to check a lot of the priority users that give Vivillon trouble, such as Kabutops, Kangaskhan, and Hariyama, while providing a useful Electric-type immunity, which helps it switch into Choice Scarf Rotom, another notable Vivillon check. Offensive Normal-types, such as Tauros and Kangaskhan, work together with Vivillon to whittle down common switch-ins, such as Regirock and Piloswine. In addition, Normal-types greatly appreciate Vivillon breaking past Rhydon with Energy Ball so they can spam their STAB moves with more freedom. Substitute lets Vivillon identify how the opponent will respond to it, whether by bringing in a Flying-resistant Pokemon, switch to a Pokemon that can take Sleep Powder, or outright attack it. This lets Vivillon make the correct move the following turn, reducing its dependence on prediction and giving it a safety net against priority attacks, particularly Sucker Punch from Shiftry and Skuntank, as well as attacks from faster threats such as Tauros and Archeops. Sleep Powder has an almost-guaranteed chance to incapacitate a slower foe and gives Vivillon many opportunities to set up either a Substitute or a Quiver Dance depending on the situation. Quiver Dance lets Vivillon outspeed most unboosted foes after a single use and makes Vivillon extremely threatening against offensive teams that lack Flying-type checks. It also lets Vivillon survive special attacks such as Swellow's Boomburst and Pyroar's Hyper Voice after a boost, which could otherwise bypass Substitute and KO Vivillon. Hurricane is Vivillon's strongest STAB move, has good neutral coverage in the tier, and has a good chance to inflict confusion on switch-ins, making Vivillon hard to deal with. Vivillon's Speed is maximized so that it can outspeed threats such as positive-natured Mesprit, Kabutops, Shiftry, and Pinsir, as well as neutral-natured Kangaskhan and Lilligant, forcing them out with either Sleep Powder or a STAB-boosted Hurricane. Maximum Speed investment also forces Shiftry to use Sucker Punch to beat Vivillon when it is unboosted, letting it set up a free Substitute. 16 HP EVs are used to give Vivillon the most efficient Leftovers recovery, letting it spam Substitute while continuously recovering HP to stall out Sucker Punch users if necessary, while still letting Vivillon switch into Stealth Rock twice. The remaining EVs are placed in Special Attack to make Vivillon's Hurricane as threatening as possible after a single boost. Compound Eyes makes Hurricane a more consistent sweeping move and makes Sleep Powder 97.5% accurate, a vast improvement over other sleep-inducing moves such as Lilligant's Sleep Powder and Jynx's Lovely Kiss. Vivillon should enter battle against a slower target, either through a slow pivot such as Lanturn or after a teammate faints. Vivillon's set will be revealed as soon as it takes any residual damage, so the opponent will know that they don't have to account for a Focus Sash. If the target is likely to attack, Sleep Powder can be used to immediately incapacitate it if there aren't any other threats that need to be put to sleep before Vivillon can boost peacefully. Otherwise, Vivillon can set up a Substitute to block status effects and to scout the opponent if they switch to a teammate. Once the foe is asleep, Substitute should be used to protect Vivillon in case the foe wakes up the next turn and attacks. Quiver Dance should usually be used when Vivillon is behind a Substitute, unless the opponent has a threat that can bypass Substitutes such as Pyroar, Swellow, or Refrigerate Aurorus. If a sleeping foe stays in, Vivillon should use Quiver Dance until its Substitute is broken, then use Sleep Powder on the foe again, set up another Substitute, and hit it with Hurricane until it is KOed. This minimizes the consequences of a Hurricane miss and Vivillon being taken by surprise in general. Vivillon can beat most Flying-resistant Pokemon one-on-one with this strategy, but if the opponent packs another check, Vivillon won't be able to sweep due to Sleep Clause. If the opponent's Vivillon check is Vital Spirit Magmortar, Vivillon should use Hurricane immediately to inflict chip damage as it switches in, after which it should switch to a teammate that can take the incoming attack. The standard Assault Vest set is usually 3HKOed, so Vivillon can break through it the second time it tries to switch in. While this set is normally most effective late-game once Pokemon that resist Flying are removed, it can still be a decent lead, bluffing the Focus Sash and firing off Sleep Powder or Hurricane. While Vivillon doesn't need full health to function, anti-entry hazard support is still recommended, as Vivillon is easily picked off by neutral priority moves such as Samurott's Aqua Jet and Zangoose's Quick Attack if it switches into Stealth Rock and lacks a Substitute. Hitmonchan and Claydol are good choices for offensive Rapid Spin users that can threaten most Flying-resistant Pokemon, such as Steelix and Lanturn, with their STAB attacks. Shiftry and Skuntank can also use Defog to clear the way for Vivillon while also dealing with Lanturn and Steelix, respectively. Hazard support punishes foes for trying to switch around to bait Sleep Powder and lets Vivillon secure KOs with fewer boosts. Omastar provides a solid defensive backbone alongside Spikes and Stealth Rock and also deals with most Steel- and Rock-types, while Cacturne and Roselia provide Spikes and have excellent matchups against Lanturn in particular. Additional Flying-types can be useful for overwhelming Flying-type checks like Lanturn, Rotom, and Rhydon that lack reliable recovery. Archeops is a great choice, outspeeding most offensive threats while packing serious power against defensive ones with Stone Edge, Earth Power, and even Aqua Tail. Dealing with Rhydon is particularly important, as Rock Blast can bypass Vivillon's Substitute, making Jumpluff another decent option. A sturdy Rock-resistant Pokemon can also be useful, especially with Flying-type partners; Gastrodon can also deal with Electric-types such as Rotom and Lanturn, while Steelix can deal with attackers such as Archeops and Tauros that outspeed unboosted Vivillon. Fast offensive threats such as Tauros, Floatzel, and Swellow are useful for threatening Pokemon that Vivillon can't enter battle against safely, such as Jynx, with Swellow's U-turn being able to bring Vivillon safely into slow responses such as Rhydon so that it can hit them with Sleep Powder. Bug Buzz can be used if your team is weak to Malamar, but otherwise it provides no relevant coverage over Hurricane. Lum Berry gives Vivillon the ability to set up on Lilligant with Sleep Powder and Xatu with Thunder Wave. Additionally, it's a great option for outmaneuvering Sucker Punch users that try to revenge kill Vivillon. Life Orb can turn Vivillon into a more effective wallbreaker.
Vivillon (SM competitive strategy): The combination of its access to Quiver Dance, decent Speed and Special Attack, and good offensive typing makes Vivillon one of the deadliest setup sweepers in NU, capable of threatening offensive and defensive teams alike. Sleep Powder is another factor that contributes to how threatening Vivillon is, allowing it to incapacitate even its hardest checks in Pokemon like Steelix, Silvally-Steel, and Rhydon and proving useful in generating setup opportunities. Furthermore, Compound Eyes increasing the accuracy of Vivillon's moves makes Sleep Powder and Hurricane far more reliable than usual. Vivillon also boasts good coverage in Hurricane + Energy Ball, which is enough to hit the entire tier barring most Steel-types neutrally. However, Vivillon's defensive presence is rather poor due to its typing leaving it 4x weak to Stealth Rock and vulnerable to common attacking typings in Electric, Fire, Flying, and Ice and its low defenses preventing it from taking neutral attacks well even after using Quiver Dance and leaving it susceptible to priority from the likes of Sneasel and Medicham. Vivillon is weak unboosted, meaning that it will need to accrue a number of boosts in order to break through bulkier Pokemon like Assault Vest Slowking as well as balance teams. Quiver Dance increases Vivillon's Speed, Special Attack, and Special Defense by one stage, which gives it an easier time with sweeping and makes revenge killing it difficult. Hurricane is Vivillon's strongest STAB move and is rather spammable due to its high Base Power and increased accuracy courtesy of Compound Eyes. Energy Ball provides good coverage alongside Hurricane, threatening to hit Rock-types like Rhydon super effectively as well as being a slightly more reliable means of dealing with bulky Water-types like Slowking and Vaporeon. Substitute is an alternative to this, allowing Vivillon to more easily set up on passive Pokemon like Mega Audino and guarding it from status conditions and priority moves. Substitute also lets Vivillon take advantage of the switches it can force, which can reduce its reliance on prediction. Sleep Powder cripples foes by putting them to sleep, allowing Vivillon to create setup opportunities for itself. The investment in Speed and Special Attack makes Vivillon as fast as possible while also maximizing its offensive presence, with a Timid nature allowing it to outpace Pokemon like Medicham and Hitmonlee. Substitute + Leftovers variants could invest 16 EVs into HP, which increases the recovery provided by Leftovers and increases the number of times Vivillon can use Substitute. Compound Eyes increases the accuracy of Vivillon's moves, making Hurricane and Sleep Powder a lot more reliable. Flyinium Z turns Hurricane into Supersonic Skystrike, which is very powerful even unboosted and allows Vivillon to break through bulky Pokemon like Mega Audino with a bit of prior damage. Alternatively, Leftovers can be used to provide passive recovery, preventing Vivillon from being worn down too quickly, which Substitute variants in particular appreciate. The fact that it cancels out residual damage taken from hail and sand is also important to note. Above all else, refrain from switching Vivillon in if Stealth Rock is up, as doing so will cause Vivillon to lose 50% of its HP and leave it incapable of reliably sweeping. Vivillon's lack of recovery outside of Leftovers and poor bulk mean that it should avoid switching directly in on most attacks. However, Vivillon is capable of switching in on Pokemon that are Choice-locked into Fighting-type moves such as Medicham and Braviary. Substitute variants should switch in on Pokemon that Vivillon threatens out like Decidueye lacking priority moves and use Substitute as they switch out, which can allow Vivillon to safely set up or use Sleep Powder. Avoid attempting to set up until all Steel-types have been removed. Bulky Rock-types like Rhydon should also be either heavily weakened or removed entirely if Vivillon lacks Energy Ball. Early-game, Vivillon should prioritize crippling Pokemon with Sleep Powder and using Hurricane, since this can potentially open the door for a teammate or even Vivillon itself to clean late-game. Priority users like Piloswine should also be removed, especially in the case of non-Substitute variants, since they can quickly put an end to Vivillon's sweep after it KOes a foe. Vivillon's crippling 4x weakness to Stealth Rock means that pairing it with entry hazard removers such as Blastoise, Whimsicott, Silvally-Steel, and Hitmonlee is near mandatory in order for it to perform its role to the best of its ability. Teammates that can set entry hazards such as Steelix, Piloswine, and Garbodor are also appreciated, as they help Vivillon guarantee certain OHKOs such as on Mega Glalie and 2HKOs such as on Guzzlord at +1. These Pokemon also come to Vivillon's aid against common priority users and appreciate Vivillon offensively checking Fighting- and Ground-types for them. Probopass is also notable, since it can trap and remove Steelix and non-Magnet Rise Klinklang courtesy of Magnet Pull, set Stealth Rock, and make use of a slow Volt Switch to bring Vivillon safely into play. Fighting-types such as Passimian, Medicham, and Hariyama are good offensive partners due to their ability to remove bulky Rock- and Steel-types with their respective STAB attacks as well as pressure other checks to Vivillon like Type: Null, Slowking, and Rotom. Passimian can also bring Vivillon in safely with U-turn. Other wallbreakers that can pressure Steel-types like Heliolisk, Guzzlord, and Magmortar pair well with Vivillon, and it also appreciates their ability to wear down shared checks like Rhydon. Users of U-turn, Volt Switch, and Parting Shot such as Passimian, Heliolisk, Rotom, and Silvally-Steel give Vivillon an easier time with switching in and lure in defensive Pokemon that Vivillon can potentially take advantage of such as Slowking and Mega Audino. Vivillon appreciates having bulky teammates that can easily sponge priority moves like Steelix and defensive Slowking to fall back on, with the former being able to additionally check Flying-types and the latter serving as a secondary check to Fighting-types. Endeavor in tandem with Focus Sash can lure in foes like Silvally-Steel as they attempt to OHKO Vivillon, which can pave the way for a teammate that needs these checks eliminated in order to reliably sweep such as Aromatisse, though it isn't as consistent as Vivillon's other options. Hidden Power Ground can be used to lure in and hit Steel-types like Silvally-Steel and Togedemaru super effectively, though Vivillon's other moves tend to be more valuable. An alternative EV spread with 96 EVs in HP, 168 in Special Attack, 4 in Special Defense, and 240 in Speed can be used in order to guarantee that Vivillon takes Ice Shard from Sneasel at full.
Bruxish (SM competitive strategy): Bruxish is a potentially threatening attacker in the RU metagame thanks to its plethora of valuable offensive traits. Its high Attack alongside an obscenely powerful STAB- and Strong Jaw-boosted Psychic Fangs allows Bruxish to perfectly complement its access to Swords Dance and decent Speed tier as a sweeper or wallbreaker on offensive teams. Alongside its powerful Psychic Fangs, Bruxish has access to useful STAB priority in the form of Aqua Jet as well as a powerful coverage option in Strong Jaw-boosted Crunch, which further bolsters its offensive presence. Unfortunately, said offensive presence is slightly offset by Bruxish's abysmal bulk, as it will often struggle to survive attacks from Pokemon that it fails to KO, which are quite common in the metagame. Bruxish's Speed, while good, can also hamper it at times, as it is still outsped and heavily threatened by common Pokemon such as Ninetales, Mismagius, and Shaymin. Bruxish also struggles from four-moveslot syndrome in that it often has to decide between running Crunch or Liquidation, meaning that it will always struggle to break through a certain foe. Lastly, choosing Bruxish's nature can also be a struggle, as Bruxish will slightly lack power with a Jolly nature and be slightly slow with an Adamant nature. Swords Dance is mandatory for boosting Bruxish's Attack to extremely threatening levels and enabling it to sweep. Psychic Fangs is Bruxish's STAB attack of choice and receives a boost in power from both STAB and Strong Jaw; it is thus an obscenely powerful option that is capable of OHKOing several metagame threats when boosted. Aqua Jet is a strong STAB priority attack that allows Bruxish to pick off weakened threats and, when boosted, OHKO the likes of Pokemon that would otherwise revenge kill it such as Aerodactyl and Salazzle. Crunch provides excellent coverage alongside Bruxish's STAB attacks, allowing it to, when boosted, likely OHKO Pokemon that would otherwise wall it in Slowbro and Cresselia after Stealth Rock damage. Liquidation is an option over Crunch that sacrifices coverage for power against defensive Pokemon, and it more reliably KOes Diancie, Donphan, and Rhyperior. Lastly, Ice Fang is an option for hitting Mandibuzz, as well as other Pokemon like Tyrantrum, Tangela, and Flygon super effectively, although the coverage it provides is overall less useful. Maximum investment in Attack and Speed allows Bruxish to be as fast and powerful as possible, and as a result, maintain an impressive offensive presence. A Jolly nature maximizes Bruxish's Speed and allows it to outpace all defensive Pokemon as well as Roserade, Rotom-C, Gardevoir, and Goodra. An Adamant nature can be used, however, to aid Bruxish in more reliably pressuring bulkier foes at the cost of being outsped by the aforementioned threats. Life Orb provides Bruxish's already strong moves with a vital boost in power, allowing it to secure the OHKO on Slowbro and Bronzong with a boosted Crunch as well as the 2HKO on Registeel and Umbreon with a boosted Liquidation. Waterium Z, coupled with Aqua Tail can be used on Swords Dance sets to blow past usual counters such as Escavalier, Umbreon, and Forretress while still hitting most of Crunch's targets, such as Metagross, Bronzong, and Cresselia. It does, however, make it significantly more vulnerable to Slowbro. Strong Jaw is the preferred ability, as it gives Psychic Fangs its immense power and Crunch a 1.5x boost in power. This set can function in many different ways and consistently be put to good use in matches. It functions as a sweeper once Bruxish's checks have been removed or weakened as well as a wallbreaker against bulkier teams. If Bruxish is attempting a sweep, it is best that faster threats that can take an Aqua Jet such as Shaymin and Virizion are removed, as they will otherwise outspeed and KO Bruxish, thus preventing its sweep. Carriers of powerful priority such as Golisopod, Comfey, Honchkrow, and Zygarde-10% are also best removed, as Bruxish's poor bulk alongside the recoil it will take from Life Orb can eventually leave it quite susceptible to being revenge killed. Setup opportunities can be hard to find at times and should thus be capitalized on whenever they appear. Bruxish can set up on defensive Pokemon that won't be able to deal sufficient damage to it, such as Milotic and Bronzong, as well as against Pokemon that it forces out like Diancie, Toxicroak, and Venusaur. Lastly, due to its poor bulk, Bruxish should never try switching into an attack; it should be brought in with slow pivot support or after a teammate has fainted. Powerful offensive threats capable of weakening or chipping away at bulkier foes, such as Tyrantrum, Virizion, and Swellow, can aid Bruxish in dealing with bulky threats that it would otherwise struggle to break, such as Registeel, Umbreon, and Escavalier, late-game. Dark-type checks such as Toxicroak, Machamp, and Gardevoir can dent Umbreon for Bruxish as well as dispose of big threats to it in Toxicroak, Pangoro, and Honchkrow. Steel-type checks are also quite useful to Bruxish due to their ability to weaken or KO the likes of Escavalier, Registeel, and Klinklang, which are all quite troublesome for it. The aforementioned Fighting-types work as checks to both Dark- and Steel-types, though Arcanine, Nidoqueen, and Donphan can all adequately check Steel-types as well. If Bruxish does not use Crunch, checks to bulky Psychic-types such as Metagross, Pangoro, and Yanmega are valuable teammates, as Bruxish otherwise struggles to break past the likes of Necrozma, Slowbro, and Cresselia. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Necrozma and Nidoqueen is helpful for Bruxish, as with either Stealth Rock or Spikes damage, it is capable of more reliably breaking past bulkier foes. Bruxish really appreciates Sticky Web support from Galvantula or Araquanid in particular, as it allows Bruxish to outpace the entire unboosted metagame, thus circumventing its only decent Speed. Psychic Fangs is an obscenely powerful STAB attack when boosted by Choice Band and is capable of OHKOing or 2HKOing most of the metagame. Aqua Jet is powerful STAB priority that is useful for picking off weakened threats. Liquidation is a powerful STAB option that allows Bruxish to hit the likes of Gigalith, Donphan, and Diancie for respectable damage. Crunch rounds off Bruxish's coverage and allows it to 2HKO Pokemon that would otherwise freely switch into it even after Stealth Rock damage such as Slowbro, Cresselia, and Necrozma. Ice Fang is able to take out Mandibuzz after Stealth Rock, which would otherwise completely wall Bruxish, as well as hitting Dragon-, Grass-, and Flying-types super effectively, but it is very hard to fit. Maximum investment in Attack with a Choice Band allows Bruxish to hit as hard as possible and function as an extremely threatening wallbreaker. Maximum Speed investment is also quite important for outpacing defensive foes, and with a Jolly nature, barely outpacing and threatening the likes of Roserade, Goodra, Sawk, Rotom-C, and Medicham. An Adamant nature is also an option, sacrificing the ability to outspeed the aforementioned threats for more power behind Bruxish's attacks. Strong Jaw is the preferred ability, as it puts an immense amount of power behind Bruxish's Psychic Fangs as well as a decent amount of power behind its Crunch. Due to the nature of Choice Band, this set must be used with careful prediction in order to help Bruxish properly function as a wallbreaker. In order to do this, predicting switches into Pokemon resistant or immune to Psychic Fangs, such as Umbreon and Metagross, and using Liquidation or a coverage option to hit them for sufficient damage is key to Bruxish's success. Once foes resistant or immune to Psychic Fangs have been removed and faster foes have been picked off, Bruxish should feel free to spam Psychic Fangs, as the move's immense power will break through most Pokemon neutral or weak to it quite effectively. Steel- and Dark-types should ideally be removed in order to make full use of this set, as none of Bruxish's coverage options are particularly useful against most defensive Pokemon of these types, which will often severely dent Bruxish while taking hits. Honchkrow, Sneasel, and Drapion are Pokemon that tend to carry Pursuit, which can trap and KO Bruxish. If any of these Pokemon are on the opposing team, Bruxish must be especially careful when using Psychic Fangs, as even if it nets a KO with the move, any of the aforementioned threats can come into play, take no damage, and trap and revenge kill Bruxish with ease. Teams that need a Pokemon capable of breaking through defensive teams very much appreciate this set, as Bruxish's good Speed allows it to function as a powerful wallbreaker that also isn't pressured by offensive teams too heavily. This set is also appreciated by bulky offense teams, as most Pokemon found on these teams, such as Houndoom and Escavalier, have great offensive synergy with Bruxish. Entry hazard support from the likes of Nidoqueen, Metagross, and Rhyperior is almost mandatory, as with either Stealth Rock or Spikes on the field, Bruxish is capable of more reliably KOing Slowbro, Cresselia, and more. Sticky Web in particular is a great entry hazard to support Bruxish with, as upon being able to outpace the entire unboosted metagame, it becomes extremely difficult to switch into and revenge kill. Galvantula and Araquanid are both capable of supporting Bruxish, and the former can even threaten Dark-types for Bruxish with STAB Bug Buzz. Fighting-types like Bewear, Pangoro, and Passimian make good partners, as they can allow Bruxish to more freely spam Psychic Fangs later in a match by removing the Dark- and Steel-types that threaten it. If a Fighting-type Pokemon isn't wanted, however, then other checks to Dark-types such as Florges, Comfey, and Diancie are all appreciated. Steel-type checks are also useful, as Bruxish is even more vulnerable to the likes of Escavalier and Registeel with this set. Rhyperior, Salazzle, and Ninetales are all capable of adequately functioning as checks to them. A Choice Scarf is also an option to help circumvent Bruxish's only decent Speed, though it leaves Bruxish with a notable lack of power. Poison Fang can be used to hit Grass- and Fairy-types super effectively; however, most Pokemon of these types are already hit hard enough by Psychic Fangs. Bruxish can opt to use its Dazzling ability, as it can avoid priority from the likes of Toxicroak, Golisopod, and Honchkrow. However, this leaves Bruxish extremely weak, as it is unable to take advantage of the power Strong Jaw provides to Psychic Fangs, Crunch, and Ice Fang. It also has Aqua Jet to help circumvent its vulnerability to priority.
Bruxish (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Bruxish is a great choice for a mid-game wallbreaker or late-game cleaner because of its dynamic STAB combination, access to priority, excellent Speed tier, and exceptional coverage that is largely boosted by Strong Jaw. Choice Scarf Bruxish notably outpaces other Choice Scarf users in the tier like Rotom-C, Flamigo, and Meloetta. Flip Turn is a great momentum move, as Bruxish uses its fast pivoting abilities to allow slower teammates like Golurk to enter the field safely and wear down its checks like Bronzong, Galarian Slowbro, and Wo-Chien. Crunch hits Ghost- and Psychic-types like Bronzong, Decidueye, Galarian Slowbro, and Galarian Articuno for massive damage. Aqua Jet is a strong STAB priority option that allows Choice Scarf Bruxish to reliably revenge kill other Choice Scarf users like Staraptor and Paldean Tauros-F. Ice Fang is a strong coverage option to chunk Dragon- and Grass-types like Altaria, Goodra, and Rotom-C. Strong Jaw is an outstanding ability for Bruxish, as a lot of its attacks like Psychic Fangs, Ice Fang, and Crunch are benefitted by the large boost it provides. Dazzling is a secondary choice for ability on Bruxish and prevents priority against it, stopping Sucker Punch and Shadow Sneak from the likes of Skuntank and Decidueye, respectively, along with Extreme Speed from Curse Arcanine and Quick Attack from Scyther. While Dazzling is a solid ability and prevents Bruxish from being taken out with priority, it does miss potential rolls that Strong Jaw provides such as a 2HKO on Bronzong with Crunch, a 2HKO on Gastrodon with Psychic Fangs, and an OHKO on Altaria with Ice Fang. Tera Psychic boosts Psychic Fangs to nearly unwallable levels when combined with Strong Jaw, providing 2HKOs into Bellibolt, Galarian Slowbro, and Milotic after minimal chip. Tera Water can be run to bolster Wave Crash, Flip Turn, and Aqua Jet damage, notably giving Wave Crash the boost needed to 2HKO Goodra and OHKO Paldean Tauros-F after an Intimidate drop while also removing the weaknesses to Dark and Ghost, which is especially important on Strong Jaw sets. Choice Scarf Bruxish can fit on all sorts of teams, being found mainly on balance and offense as a form of Speed control and breaking power. With access to Flip Turn, VoltTurn cores with teammates like Kilowattrel, Rotom-H, and Scyther can be incredibly difficult for teams to manage throughout a game. Entry hazard stacking teams similarly use the threat of Flip Turn and strong breaking power to rack up hazard chip, appreciating support from Knock Off users like Bombirdier, Gligar, and Skuntank to remove Heavy-Duty Boots. Bombirdier is a notable teammate for Bruxish because of its access to Stealth Rock and U-turn, and it is usually easy to slot one of these on Bombirdier. Bombirdier also resists Dark- and Ghost-type attacks, so the duo has immense upside as a capable VoltTurn duo that has a lot of utility and coverage. Other teammates like Flamigo and Staraptor can help break through bulky checks to Bruxish, such as Duraludon and Wo-Chien, and can provide another mid-game breaker or late-game cleaner for teams that strive to keep offensive pressure up. To break through physical walls more efficiently, teams using Choice Scarf Bruxish can often slot a strong special attacker like Hoopa, Zoroark, or Toxtricity to support its endeavors to break teams down, with the latter two having access to pivot moves to further build off the VoltTurn structure. Bruxish's ability to threaten every Ground-type in the tier is also important for teammates like Arcanine and Salazzle, which become very threatening late-game when Ground-types are removed. Bruxish serves as one of PU's most frightening wallbreakers thanks to its high Attack and alright Speed stat, its access to Strong Jaw, great move options with a great STAB combination, priority, pivoting moves, and coverage options. It 2HKOes a vast majority of the tier's staple walls, like Bellibolt, Mudsdale, Galarian Slowbro, and Gastrodon, with its terrifying STAB attacks. Aqua Jet is used to deal with faster weakened threats and setup sweepers, such as Choice Scarf Flamigo and Salazzle. Finally, Flip Turn lets Bruxish safely switch out of bad matchups, such as Wo-Chien and Bronzong. Tera Psychic can be used to let Psychic Fangs OHKO Pokemon like bulky Florges, and it removes Bruxish's weaknesses to the Grass- and Electric-types that litter the tier. Tera Water can be used to OHKO foes like Bronzong and Alolan Sandslash after Stealth Rock chip damage. It also removes Bruxish's Ghost and Dark weaknesses, making Pokemon like Decidueye easier to deal with. Due to Bruxish's pitiful defenses and rather mediocre Speed stat, it fits best on bulky balance and offense teams to make up for its lackluster hit-taking abilities. Bruxish struggles with faster or bulkier Dark-type Pokemon such as Zoroark and Wo-Chien, so it really appreciates Fighting-type Pokemon like Flamigo and Scrafty, which also provide a valuable Knock Off-resistant teammate. Defensive Ground-types like Gligar work well with Bruxish, as they remove deadly threats like Bellibolt and Choice Scarf Toxtricity, while Bruxish can deal with Pokemon that check them like Hoopa and opposing Gligar. Gastrodon is another valuable defensive Knock Off absorber if it runs Sticky Hold and can set Stealth Rock and deals well with Bruxish's counters, such as Eviolite Duraludon. Faster Grass- and Electric-type Pokemon, such as Kilowattrel and Choice Scarf Rotom-C, threaten Bruxish immensely, so teammates that resist their moves such as Rotom-H and Venusaur are great teammates, along with being more reliable checks to Paldean Tauros-W than Bruxish. In return, Bruxish can take out the Poison- and Rock-type Pokemon that threaten them such as Salazzle, Galarian Slowbro, and Coalossal. Teammates such as Choice Scarf Toxtricity and Arcanine appreciate Bruxish, as it can remove the bulky Pokemon that wall them such as Coalossal, Gligar, and Mudsdale. Thanks to Bruxish's wallbreaking ability, it makes for a great teammate for late-game sweepers and cleaners, such as Staraptor, Salazzle, and Ambipom.
Cetitan (SV competitive strategy): Cetitan's unique combination of Slush Rush and Belly Drum make it a great snow sweeper for Ice teams. Cetitan is able to use Belly Drum in combination with Slush Rush to boost its Attack and Speed to some of the highest in the tier. Icicle Crash is Cetitan's best way of attacking, shredding most foes that aim to stand in its way. Ice Shard is used to pick off the few Choice Scarf users that outspeed Cetitan, such as Meowscarada, Enamorus, and Flutter Mane. Earthquake is useful for hitting the Steel-, Water- and Fire-types that resist Icicle Crash and Ice Shard, such as Heatran, Toxapex, and Ceruledge. Sitrus Berry is used to restore some of Cetitan's HP after Belly Drum, increasing its longevity. Since Cetitan needs snow to be able to fulfill its role, Alolan Ninetales is a mandatory teammate. Not only can Alolan Ninetales provide snow support, but it can also provide Aurora Veil support, further helping Cetitan stay on the field. Since Cetitan opts to use Sitrus Berry instead of Heavy-Duty Boots, teammates that can remove entry hazards are great support, such as Avalugg and Alolan Sandslash. Avalugg serves better as a dedicated defensive wall, while Alolan Sandslash can also take advantage of Slush Rush, Swords Dance, and Knock Off. Kyurem is excellent at dealing with Unaware walls that would otherwise ignore Cetitan's Belly Drum boost; it is able to use Freeze-Dry and defeat walls such as Quagsire and Dondozo while also having access to Earth Power, which defeats Skeledirge. Mamoswine is a good teammate, as it can provide hazard support to break Focus Sash and secure OHKOs on targets such as Corviknight, as well as soften the blow from Fire-type attacks.
Runerigus (SS competitive strategy): Although Runerigus sports good physical bulk, a great movepool, and a unique ability in Wandering Spirit, it is nevertheless a poor defensive entry hazard setter. Runerigus has multiple defensive weaknesses, making it weak to common threats like Rotom, Silvally-Dark, and Skuntank, and lacks reliable recovery. It suffers from overwhelming competition from Ground-types like Rhydon and Palossand, with the former having a better typing and stats and the latter having better longevity thanks to reliable recovery. Runerigus can try to use its wide utility movepool and good physical bulk to take on physical attackers like Sawk and Kangaskhan. However, Runerigus's many weaknesses and lack of reliable recovery make it much easier to wear down than one may expect. This set is done better by Rhydon and Palossand; the former's better defensive typing and stats make it more consistent against Electric- and Poison-types like Rotom and Skuntank, while the latter's reliable recovery makes it more consistent as a wall compared to Runerigus.
Brute Bonnet (SV competitive strategy): Brute Bonnet is a menacing attacker in ZU thanks to a laundry list of highly useful offensive attributes. Brute Bonnet's STAB combination hits much of the tier for neutral damage. STAB Sucker Punch allows Brute Bonnet to cleave through weakened offensive teams late-game, and Synthesis in conjunction with its solid bulk makes Brute Bonnet difficult to chip down. Brute Bonnet is also capable of boosting its already high Attack stat with Booster Energy, making it a potent wincon, or by utilizing a Choice Band set, which turns it into a devastating wallbreaker. However, Brute Bonnet is burdened with a poor defensive typing, as it is weak to common Fighting-, Bug-, Ice-, and Poison-type attacks. Its poor Speed tier also leaves it very reliant on Sucker Punch to reliably threaten offensive teams, and they often carry Fighting-, Dark-, or Fairy-types that resist it. Brute Bonnet is capable of using Terastallization to circumvent these issues; however, this makes the standard offensive set Tera-dependent in many matchups. The Choice Band set can also be taken advantage of, as Brute Bonnet's STAB combination can be played around with common Pokemon that fit on both offensive and bulkier team styles, such as Dipplin, Virizion, and Charizard. Crunch is generally preferred over Seed Bomb, as Dark is a superior offensive typing and hits more of the metagame for neutral damage. It notably hits Muk, Weezing, Dipplin, and Articuno harder, but keep in mind that Brute Bonnet will still need the latter three to be chipped if it hopes to break through them. Crunch also comes with a handy chance to drop Defense, which can be useful in a late-game situation when faced down with Dipplin. However, Seed Bomb can be considered, as it hits Sandslash, Sandaconda, and Lanturn harder. Sucker Punch is mandatory, as Brute Bonnet is quite slow, and access to powerful priority allows it to become threatening to offensive builds. Close Combat provides crucial coverage against foes such as Orthworm, Glastrier, and opposing Brute Bonnet. Synthesis allows Brute Bonnet to stay healthy throughout a match and allows it to potentially outlast defensive Pokemon that try to beat it with consistent chip damage, such as Snorlax, Sandaconda, and Naclstack. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Brute Bonnet to come in multiple times throughout a game without fear of chip from entry hazards; this makes it quite challenging to take down in conjunction with Synthesis. On the other hand, Booster Energy gives Brute Bonnet a one-time boost to its Attack, which makes it a very threatening late-game wincon. Notably, it allows Sucker Punch to OHKO Jolteon after Stealth Rock damage. Booster Energy can only be used once, however, which restricts Brute Bonnet's flexibility throughout a game. Tera Poison is the preferred Tera type, as it grants Brute Bonnet a resistance to Fighting-, Bug-, Poison-, and Fairy-type attacks. This allows it to turn the tables on several of its traditional checks, such as Passimian. Tera Water can also be used to give Brute Bonnet a resistance to Fire- and Ice-type attacks, letting it deal with Sneasel, Glastrier, and Typhlosion. An Adamant nature is run for maximum damage output. Brute Bonnet's powerful attacks and access to Sucker Punch give it a solid place on many balance and offensive teams. Do note that it is best to use teammates that are not reliant on Terastallizing to perform their roles consistently, as Brute Bonnet often needs to Terastallize if it is looking to sweep late-game. Brute Bonnet benefits from teammates that help to chip down its offensive answers into range of its powerful Sucker Punch. Fast pivots such as Passimian, Jolteon, and Basculin can help chip much of the offensive metagame, and Brute Bonnet also appreciates their ability to get it in safely. On the other hand, physically bulky teammates such as Weezing and Sandaconda check Fighting-types like Passimian and Toxicroak. All three also run Rocky Helmet, which is great to further chip physical attackers like Sneasel, Hisuian Sneasel, and Virizion. The latter two also set Stealth Rock to chip down Brute Bonnet's offensive answers even further. Two of Brute Bonnet's best and most common answers are Charizard and Whimsicott, so special walls such as Snorlax help by checking these big threats. Brute Bonnet pairs well with other powerful wallbreakers, such as Magneton, Hitmontop, and Glastrier, as they can help to break down each other's defensive answers; the former two can also pivot to get Brute Bonnet in safely. Choice Band Brute Bonnet uses its great STAB combination, good overall coverage, and sizable bulk to become an effective wallbreaker. Close Combat allows Brute Bonnet to hit foes such as Orthworm, Virizion, and opposing Brute Bonnet hard. Sucker Punch allows Brute Bonnet to revenge kill dangerous offensive threats such as Jolteon, Magneton, and Typhlosion in an emergency. However, it should be used with caution, as being locked into Sucker Punch is very undesirable due to how easily it can be exploited by the opponent. Tera Dark gives Crunch a significant power boost, giving Brute Bonnet the ability to 2HKO bulky foes such as Weezing and Orthworm after Stealth Rock. An Adamant nature is required to give Brute Bonnet as much power as possible. Choice Band Brute Bonnet fits best on bulky offense and balance teams. Brute Bonnet tends to invite in threats such as Virizion, Passimian, and Whimsicott to attempt a revenge kill. Bulky Poison-types such as Weezing and Muk are therefore standout partners, as they can help stave off these threats. Brute Bonnet complements them by coming in on Ground- and Psychic-type attacks from the likes of Sandaconda and Mesprit, which offensive teammates such as Hisuian Sneasel and Jolteon appreciate as well. Dipplin is another great teammate that can help out against most physical revenge killers. A specially bulky teammate, such as Mesprit or Lanturn, can help stave off revenge killing attempts from the likes of Charizard, Typhlosion, and Magneton; both of these partners also help Brute Bonnet get in safely with their slow pivot moves, and the first can set Stealth Rock whereas the second can spread status for Brute Bonnet to take advantage of. Brute Bonnet is also quite slow, and it benefits from VoltTurn partners that can get it in safely. It therefore loves faster pivoting teammates, such as Jolteon, Choice Scarf Passimian, and Choice Scarf Basculin, that can help it overcome the shortcoming of its low Speed. These teammates appreciate Brute Bonnet's wallbreaking capabilities facilitating a potential late-game sweep. Brute Bonnet hates being statused, so teammates that can absorb attempts to burn and paralyze it, such as Naclstack, Typhlosion, and Lanturn are appreciated. It also appreciates paralysis being spread onto the opposing team, as teams can take advantage of its poor Speed tier. As such, teammates like Lanturn and Sandaconda make for good partners. Growth sets can also be run, but Brute Bonnet's power is much less impressive, and such a set tends to require significant support to be effective. Zen Headbutt can be used to hit bulky Poison-types harder, most notably Weezing and Muk, but Close Combat's targets are generally more relevant. Tera Blast can be run on offensive sets utilizing Tera Poison to hit several of Brute Bonnet's traditional checks, including Virizion, Whimsicott, and Dipplin. Such sets should use Booster Energy in order to 2HKO Dipplin after Stealth Rock damage. This makes Brute Bonnet reliant on Terastallizing in almost every single game to be effective, however, and forces Brute Bonnet to drop Close Combat, which makes it vulnerable to threats such as Orthworm and Glastrier. Trailblaze can boost Brute Bonnet's Speed, but it is quite weak, and Brute Bonnet is still quite slow even after a boost. As a result, Sucker Punch is generally a more reliable way to take down faster threats.
Rillaboom (SS competitive strategy): Rillaboom is a premier offensive threat in generation 8 OverUsed, terrorizing teams with its deadly combination of Grassy Glide and Grassy Surge that can even muscle past Grass-resistant foes such as Dragapult and Tornadus-T once they are chipped. Its good natural bulk, decent Speed tier, and expansive movepool allow it to take on a variety of offensive roles: it can act as a long-term setup threat with a bulky Swords Dance set that heals an incredible amount HP every turn through Leftovers and Grassy Terrain, opt for incredible sweeping potential with offensive Life Orb sets, and even be an immediate wallbreaker with a Choice Band equipped. Its aforementioned movepool also makes it a great progress maker: Knock Off can remove items like Heavy-Duty Boots from checks like Buzzwole, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T to wear them down in the long run with entry hazard support, while U-turn takes advantage of predicted switch-ins and generates momentum for offensive teammates to exploit. Moreover, Grassy Terrain makes it a fantastic glue on numerous structures, weakening the power of Earthquake while providing passive recovery to Pokemon like Heatran, Melmetal, specially defensive Garchomp, and Galarian Slowking. However, Grass being a lackluster offensive typing means that there are plenty of checks to Rillaboom—Flying-type Pokemon such as Skarmory, Corviknight, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T can all stomach hits from it and retaliate with their STAB moves and coverage. Buzzwole completely stops Rillaboom in its tracks, as it resists nearly all of Rillaboom's moves and has the ability to deal significant damage back. Rillaboom is also vulnerable to status and chip damage from entry hazards, the former of which is exacerbated by the prevalence of Scald on Water-type Pokemon such as Gastrodon and Slowking that it wants to threaten out. But the Galarian silverback is still one of the most dangerous threats in the tier, and it will pummel its opponents to submission as long as it has teammates can compensate for its weaknesses. Bulky Swords Dance Rillaboom is a terrific offensive Pokemon that can fill a variety of roles: it makes progress early-game by removing items with Knock Off, can revenge kill offensive threats like Scale Shot Garchomp and Urshifu-R with Grassy Glide, and sweep late-game after a Swords Dance boost once its checks are weakened. Grassy Glide gives Rillaboom the aforementioned revenge killing and sweeping capabilities as the strongest priority move in the metagame after a Grassy Terrain boost, allowing Rillaboom to pick off weakened would-be checks such as Dragapult and Tornadus-T, especially after a Swords Dance boost. Knock Off punishes switch-ins by removing crucial items from checks like Tornadus-T, Zapdos, Buzzwole, Corviknight, and Skarmory. Rillaboom's choice of Fighting-type coverage depends on what it requires: Drain Punch gives Rillaboom another form of recovery and further increases its longevity, while Superpower allows Rillaboom to break through Steel-types such as Melmetal, Heatran, and Ferrothorn after a Swords Dance boost. The above nature and EV spread maximizes Rillaboom's offensive output and bulk, and the Speed investment ensures that it can outspeed Adamant Crawdaunt if Grassy Terrain is down. Leftovers provides Rillaboom with significant passive recovery when combined with Grassy Terrain, so it can reliably survive until late in the game where it can threaten a sweep. Bulky Swords Dance Rillaboom fits best on bulkier structures that appreciate its ability to generate progress while giving Rillaboom the defensive backbone needed to slowly whittle down opposing teams and open up an opportunity for it to sweep late-game. Rillaboom can also form potent cores with Pokemon weak to Earthquake, such as Heatran and Melmetal, since its Grassy Surge weakens the power of Earthquake and provides a form of passive recovery. Heatran is one of its best partners, as it can pressure the likes of Zapdos, Tornadus-T, Corviknight, Skarmory, and Buzzwole for Rillaboom while appreciating Rillaboom's ability to force out Ground- and Water-types such as Landorus-T, Garchomp, Hippowdon, Rotom-W, Tapu Fini, and Gastrodon. Both Pokemon can also wear down their greatest shared check in Dragonite with Toxic and Knock Off, respectively. Defensively, Heatran's access to Flash Fire allows it to be a sturdy check to dangerous Fire-types like Volcarona and Blacephalon that threaten Rillaboom. Melmetal is an alternative Steel-type teammate that provides a different defensive profile, as it can check Weavile and Dragonite at the cost of being weak to the above Fire-types. Melmetal can also overwhelm shared checks like Zapdos, Corviknight, Skarmory and Buzzwole with its access to Toxic, Thunder Punch, and Thunder Wave while Rillaboom removes items from the above Pokemon with Knock Off. Galarian Slowking can either provide Future Sight support with Assault Vest sets or be a sweeper if it runs Nasty Plot, and it has disruptive options such as Trick + Black Sludge and Thunder Wave that can weaken Steel-types that check Rillaboom, such as Melmetal and Heatran. Toxapex can check Weavile, Blacephalon, Tornadus-T, and Buzzwole for Rillaboom, while Shed Shell variants can even annoy opposing Heatran with Knock Off. Garchomp is a Ground-type that can reliably check Fire-types like Heatran, Volcarona, Blacephalon, and Victini while providing Stealth Rock and Toxic support against Flying-types like Zapdos and Tornadus-T. Garchomp also greatly appreciates Grassy Surge recovery in conjunction with its access to Protect despite it weakening Earthquake, as it allows Garchomp to recover significant amounts of HP, maximizing its longevity. Tornadus-T is a reliable Defogger that can remove entry hazards from the likes of Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Ferrothorn, which negate Rillaboom's combination of Leftovers + Grassy Terrain recovery. Its Speed tier and access to Knock Off also allow it to cripple threats like Tapu Lele and Blacephalon, which can threaten Rillaboom. Rotom-W can check threats like Victini, Volcanion, and Heatran while being able to generate momentum with Volt Switch. Swords Dance Rillaboom is a vicious wallbreaker thanks to its good coverage and access to a strong priority move in Grassy Glide. Grassy Glide is capable of immediate monstrous damage with a boost from both Grassy Terrain and Life Orb, OHKOing Urshifu-R and Choice Band Tyranitar while putting immense pressure on Pokemon like Tapu Fini and Slowbro. Knock Off allows Rillaboom to punish Flying-type Pokemon like Corviknight, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T that may want to switch on it by removing their items, exposing the latter two's Stealth Rock weakness while hindering the defensive utility of the former by either harming its longevity or removing its ability to punish contact moves. Superpower nails Steel-types like Melmetal, Heatran, and Ferrothorn that may feel comfortable coming in on Grassy Glide, OHKOing them at +2, while also being an excellent form of neutral coverage to hit foes like Corviknight and Galarian Moltres. Adamant is mainly used for the general power boost; however, a Jolly nature lets Rillaboom outspeed the likes of Urshifu-R and Tapu Lele without Speed-boosting natures. Life Orb gives Rillaboom an extra boost in power, guaranteeing an OHKO on Garchomp and Landorus-T with +2 Grassy Glide and a 2HKO on Skarmory with +2 Superpower. Swords Dance Rillaboom fits best on offense teams to help overwhelm common defensive Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Melmetal, and Heatran. Other offensive Pokemon such as Weavile and Zeraora threaten Flying-types like Zapdos and Tornadus-T that check Rillaboom. In return, Rillaboom can assist in overwhelming common shared checks like defensive Heatran and Melmetal. Additionally, Weavile heavily appreciates Rillaboom threatening bulky Water-types like Toxapex and Tapu Fini, making its cleaning ability much stronger late-game. Heatran, Volcanion, and Urshifu-R lure in Water-types like Slowbro, Gastrodon, and Tapu Fini, giving Rillaboom the chance to switch in and force them out. In return, these Pokemon can overwhelm Steel-types like Corviknight, Melmetal, and Heatran, which would otherwise discourage using Grassy Glide. Entry hazard setters like Landorus-T, Heatran, and Garchomp can provide chip damage and wear down common checks to Rillaboom such as Zapdos, Tornadus-T, Buzzwole, and Dragonite. Additionally, these Pokemon all boast access to other useful utility moves like Toxic and Knock Off, further wearing down the aforementioned Pokemon. Heatran in particular synergizes amazingly with Rillaboom, heavily appreciating Rillaboom's Grassy Terrain reducing the power of Earthquake and providing additional longevity while being able to threaten common checks to Rillaboom like Corviknight, Skarmory, and Buzzwole. Magnezone is another solid offensive partner, removing Steel-types like Corviknight, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn that would otherwise check Rillaboom. When equipped with a Choice Band, Rillaboom becomes an incredibly fearsome revenge killer, making use of a boosted Grassy Glide to dispatch the likes of Weavile, Barraskewda, and Zeraora while Grassy Terrain is up, as well as having fierce wallbreaking potential and providing crucial pivoting support. Wood Hammer takes Rillaboom's wallbreaking power to unsettling highs, thrashing neutral targets like Toxapex and Clefable and even 2HKOing frailer Grass-resistant Pokemon like Galarian Slowking and opposing Rillaboom. Wood Hammer can also be substituted out for Superpower, which allows Rillaboom to whack the likes of Ferrothorn, Melmetal, and Heatran, most notably OHKOing specially defensive variants of the last. Knock Off is a strong coverage move that lets Rillaboom remove Heavy-Duty Boots from checks like Zapdos, Tornadus-T, and Buzzwole, making them vulnerable to entry hazards; remove Rocky Helmet from the likes of Corviknight and Skarmory, allowing Rillaboom to pivot on them unpunished later on; and hit Pokemon that resist both Grass and Fighting like Galarian Slowking, Dragapult, and Aegislash super effectively, often for an OHKO. U-turn allows Rillaboom to generate momentum and pivot in frailer teammates. This set fits the best on offense and bulky offense teams, being able to work in tandem with other wallbreakers and cleaners as well as provide revenge killing support for defensive cores. Heatran has great synergy with Rillaboom, as it is one of the best Stealth Rock setters in the metagame that can pressure Defoggers like Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Corviknight, which are also some of the best checks to Rillaboom. This is aided by Rillaboom's ability to remove Leftovers from Corviknight and Heavy-Duty Boots from Tornadus-T and Zapdos with Knock Off so that Heatran's Stealth Rock can wear them down. Additionally, Heatran appreciates Grassy Terrain weakening opposing Earthquake and giving it additional passive recovery, especially when running Protect. Frail wallbreakers such as Swords Dance Weavile and Choice Specs Dragapult appreciate Rillaboom's ability to force switches and use U-turn to pivot them in safely; in return, Weavile can work together with Rillaboom to wear down shared checks like Buzzwole, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory, while Dragapult can threaten the aforementioned Pokemon with its powerful special attacks. Fire-types like Victini and Blaziken can threaten all of Buzzwole, Skarmory, and Corviknight for Kartana, while Tapu Lele can threaten the first and draw in and chip down the last two. Magnezone makes for a good offensive partner because it can forcefully remove the likes of Corviknight, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory. Kartana appreciates Grassy Terrain boosting its Leaf Blade and can work in tandem with Rillaboom to chip away at shared checks like Corviknight and Tornadus-T. Acrobatics can be used on offensive Swords Dance sets to take out Buzzwole so that they can enable teammates such as Kartana, but dropping either Knock Off or Superpower would mean that Rillaboom will be unable to take out Steel-types like Melmetal, Ferrothorn, and Heatran or make progress against Flying-types like Zapdos and Tornadus-T. Terrain Extender allows Grassy Terrain to stay on the field for more turns so that Grassy Seed sweepers like Hawlucha can have more opportunities to set up, while Coba Berry allows Rillaboom to live Hurricane from Zapdos and Tornadus-T and Brave Bird from Corviknight and Galarian Zapdos, but Rillaboom greatly appreciates the extra recovery from Leftovers or the additional power provided by Life Orb. Assault Vest sets leveraging Rillaboom's solid natural bulk, good typing, and access to Knock Off and U-turn make for a solid offensive pivot, but Rillaboom will sorely miss the immediate power of Choice Band. Wood Hammer on Swords Dance variants give Rillaboom an incredibly powerful STAB move, capable of OHKOing Clefable and Toxapex after a Swords Dance boost, but it would require Rillaboom to drop a coverage move or Grassy Glide.
Rillaboom (SV competitive strategy): Swords Dance Rillaboom leverages its decent bulk and access to good priority to set up and effectively clean up games with Grassy Glide, which also allow it to function as a dangerous revenge killer against foes such as Darkrai, Iron Valiant, and Ogerpon-W. Knock Off allows Rillaboom to punish foes such as Zapdos and Moltres switching in, removing their Heavy-Duty Boots and therefore making them vulnerable to entry hazards, while also hitting Gholdengo, Pecharunt, and Galarian Slowking for super effective damage. Wood Hammer is Rillaboom's strongest option, threatening slower neutral walls such as Gliscor, Clefable, and Tera Fairy Garganacl. High Horsepower targets other Grass-resistant foes like Kingambit, Galarian Weezing, and Raging Bolt with the added benefit of hitting the aforementioned Gholdengo, Pecharunt, and Galarian Slowking harder once their item has been removed. Tera Grass should be run alongside Wood Hammer and is preferred to crank up its STAB moves further, such as OHKOing faster threats like Tornadus-T and Dragapult after minor chip damage with +2 Grassy Glide and potentially OHKOing would-be checks like Zapdos and Galarian Weezing with a nuclear +2 Wood Hammer. Tera Dark can be used to boost its Knock Off to overwhelm other Grass-resistant checks like Corviknight, Dragonite, Moltres, and Pecharunt more reliably, even guaranteeing the OHKO against the latter at +2. At the cost of the aforementioned damage rolls, a Jolly nature can be used as an alternative in order to outspeed Gholdengo and Speed tie with opposing Rillaboom. Swords Dance Rillaboom fits primarily on more offensive structures, where its ability to revenge kill common foes and clean up late-game is greatly appreciated. Rillaboom often struggles to break through Fire-types such as Iron Moth, Heatran and Moltres, making Water-types that can threaten them such as Ogerpon-W and Primarina greatly appreciated, with the latter also providing pivot support to bring Rillaboom in on foes such as Assault Vest Alomomola and Blissey. In exchange, Rillaboom can threaten KOs on these opposing defensive Pokemon, preventing them from gaining momentum or setting entry hazards. Rillaboom also struggles with Flying-types such as Zapdos and Moltres, at best only being able to remove their Heavy-Duty Boots with Knock Off, making teammates that can threaten them such as Raging Bolt and Glimmora excellent partners. In return, Rillaboom's Grassy Terrain makes them less vulnerable to Earthquake from foes such as Gliscor and Ting-Lu, and it also threatens these troublesome Ground-types with Wood Hammer. Another problem Rillaboom can have is Steel-types such as Kingambit and Corviknight, making Fire-types such as Ceruledge, Cinderace, and Iron Moth great partners. They, in turn, enjoy Rillaboom's Grassy Terrain, making their matchup against Gliscor and Ting-Lu more favorable, while also appreciating Rillaboom breaking through bulky Water-types such as Alomomola for them. Dragon-types such as Dragonite and Kyurem can often turn Rillaboom into setup fodder, making Fairy-types such as Hatterene and Encore Iron Valiant, which can prevent Scale Shot and punish Dragon Dance, excellent allies. In return, Rillaboom can help to overwhelm Steel-types such as Kingambit for them. Another teammate that can help against these Dragon-types is Dragapult, which can threaten KOs on both Dragonite and Kyurem to prevent them from setting up, with Rillaboom in return beating Ting-Lu. Hazards can also prove troublesome for Rillaboom due to its lack of Heavy-Duty Boots and overall lack of longevity from using Wood Hammer and Life Orb; removal options such as Great Tusk and Iron Treads are good partners, with Corviknight also being a nice switch-in against opposing Flying-types. Teammates that can exploit Grassy Seed such as Gholdengo and Hawlucha also enjoy Rillaboom's Terrain helping them set up more easily, with Gholdengo also appreciating Grassy Terrain halving damage dealt by Earthquake and its passive recovery. In return, Gholdengo can help against foes such as Corviknight and Galarian Weezing. Zamazenta also makes a good partner, being able to overwhelm shared checks such as Zapdos, Pecharunt, and Gholdengo with Rillaboom. With its combination of power, strong priority, solid bulk, and excellent support through Grassy Terrain, Rillaboom is a premier wallbreaker and revenge killer in OU. Grassy Glide allows Rillaboom to revenge kill faster Pokemon like Iron Boulder, Great Tusk, and Barraskewda while also denying lead Deoxys-S and Hisuian Samurott from getting two turns to set entry hazards. Wood Hammer is an excellent tool for breaking through even resistant Pokemon, being able to 2HKO Raging Bolt and Kingambit after Stealth Rock while OHKOing Dondozo, Great Tusk, and Hatterene. U-turn makes Rillaboom a pivot while also being the strongest option against Lokix and Hydrapple. Knock Off removes items from Rillaboom's checks, including Dragonite, Skarmory, and Moltres, while also being the best option to hit Gholdengo, Skeledirge, and Galarian Slowking. Drain Punch is an alternative that OHKOes Kingambit and hits Heatran switching in while increasing Rillaboom's longevity. An Adamant nature is preferred for its power boost; however, a Jolly nature can be used to outspeed opposing Adamant Rillaboom and Gholdengo without Choice Scarf at the cost of being unable to always OHKO Pokemon like Dondozo and Galarian Slowking with Wood Hammer and Knock Off. An alternative EV spread of 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe can be used alongside an Adamant nature to outspeed Gliscor while allowing Rillaboom to survive hits such as Life Orb Deoxys-S's Psycho Boost, Ogerpon-W's +2 Power Whip, and Tornadus-T's Bleakwind Storm; however, it notably worsens Rillaboom's matchup against opposing Rillaboom and Raging Bolt due to being outsped. Tera Grass powers up Rillaboom's Grass-type moves, allowing Grassy Glide to OHKO Darkrai, Ogerpon-W, and Iron Valiant after Stealth Rock and Wood Hammer to OHKO Clefable, Toxapex, and Gliscor after Stealth Rock. Bulk Up Great Tusk can take advantage of Grassy Terrain's recovery while removing entry hazards for Rillaboom with Rapid Spin, as Rillaboom is prone to hazard damage. Hawlucha is another one of Rillaboom's biggest beneficiaries, using Grassy Seed and Unburden to become an excellent sweeper with nearly unmatched Speed. In return, Rillaboom breaks open bulky teams for Hawlucha and Great Tusk and removes Rocky Helmet and Heavy-Duty Boots from walls like Skarmory, Corviknight, and Terastallized Dondozo. Bulky Ground-weak Pokemon, including Kingambit, Raging Bolt, and Heatran, appreciate Grassy Terrain nullifying their weakness to Earthquake from Pokemon like Gliscor and Ting-Lu while providing extra passive recovery. Kingambit can form a dual priority core with Rillaboom, notably revenge killing Grass-resistant Pokemon like Dragapult and Gholdengo while any attempts to stall out its Sucker Punch give an extra turn of recovery from Grassy Terrain. Raging Bolt is another excellent priority user and wallbreaker that additionally enjoys Rillaboom's U-turn bringing it on checks like Corviknight, Skarmory, and Moltres. Iron Moth and Heatran can also come in on Rillaboom's checks like Cinderace, Corviknight, and Skarmory. Iron Defense Zamazenta is an excellent teammate, as Rillaboom breaks and overwhelms walls like Dondozo and Skarmory that would get in the way of its sweep, and the extra longevity from Grassy Terrain is amazing to keep Zamazenta healthy, as it lacks any reliable ways to heal outside of Leftovers. Hatterene and Comfey can become potent sweepers when used with Rillaboom, both being able to run Grassy Seed while the extra longevity allows Hatterene to keep hazards off more consistenly with Magic Bounce. Grassy Seed allows Hatterene and Comfey to set up on physical attackers that can no longer 2HKO them like Heavy Slam Zamazenta, Ogerpon-W, and Great Tusk while giving an appreciated boost to their Stored Power. Ursaluna and Rillaboom form a terrifying offensive core, with Rillaboom supporting Ursaluna with Knock Off and Grassy Terrain to nullify Flame Orb's chip damage. Both Tail Glow and Take Heart Manaphy can be used alongside Rillaboom, as the Terrain powers up its Energy Ball and gives extra longevity to set up, become unbreakable, and fire off devastating Stored Powers, respectively. Rillaboom can bypass checks like Dragonite, Zapdos, and Moltres with support from Stealth Rock setters like Heatran, Great Tusk, and Glimmora in addition to its Knock Off to remove their Heavy-Duty Boots. Rillaboom is an excellent Terrain setter, revenge killer, wallbreaker, and offensive pivot all at once thanks to its good Attack stat, Grassy Surge, and access to a phenomenal movepool. Knock Off hits Grass-resistant foes such as Dragapult, Gholdengo, and Galarian Slowking super effectively while also removing items from common switch-ins such as Heavy-Duty Boots from Moltres, Rocky Helmet from Skarmory, and Leftovers from Zamazenta, reducing their effectiveness. U-turn allows Rillaboom to pivot out of bad matchups such as against Dragon-types like Dragonite and Raging Bolt and generate momentum for its team; it also enables Rillaboom to bring its setup sweeper teammates like Hawlucha and Hatterene in. Low Kick hits foes like Kingambit and Heatran for super effective damage. Alternatively, Wood Hammer can be used as a stronger STAB move, OHKOing offensive Great Tusk and 2HKOing defensive variants, 2HKOing Hatterene, and having a roll to OHKO Ting-Lu. 52 Speed EVs allow Rillaboom to outspeed Jolly Kingambit. Alternatively, a spread of 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe can be run for Rillaboom to outspeed Gliscor. With Tera Grass, Rillaboom 2HKOes Iron Valiant with Grassy Glide and Gliscor with Wood Hammer after Poison Heal. Otherwise, Tera Fighting can be used to make Rillaboom resistant to Dark-type moves such as Sucker Punch from Kingambit. Terrain Extender helps teammates like Hawlucha to find more opportunities to come in; however, Assault Vest can be used instead to allow Rillaboom to better check special attackers such as Primarina and Gholdengo. Rillaboom shines on offense teams and is a staple on Grassy Terrain-based teams. Terrain Extender should usually be used on hyper offense teams and provides wonderful support to its setup sweeper partners. Assault Vest has overall better defensive utility and thus should generally be used on bulky offense teams; it is exceptional at supporting bulkier threats such as Zamazenta, helping them deal with foes like Primarina and Gholdengo. Although generally the best fits, these recommendations are not set in stone, and either item can be used on either archetype, with Assault Vest potentially providing hyper offense with a one-time check to a special threat and Terrain Extender supporting bulky offense. Hawlucha proves itself to be an exceptional partner for Rillaboom; In Grassy Terrain, it can utilize Grassy Seed to transform into a terrifying cleaner with Swords Dance and Unburden. Hatterene also functions as a remarkable Calm Mind cleaner with Grassy Seed and longevity from Grassy Terrain. Similarly, Primarina appreciates the longevity Grassy Terrain provides to turn itself into a dangerous threat with Calm Mind; moreover, it synergizes well with Rillaboom by helping it against Fire-types such as Moltres. Setup sweepers such that benefit from the Grassy Terrain include Pokemon weak to Earthquake from foes like Ting-Lu and Gliscor, such as Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Raging Bolt. Rillaboom is vulnerable to Fire-types like Moltres, Cinderace, and Iron Moth so teammates such as Heatran and Great Tusk are appreciated. Rillaboom also likes entry hazards to chip its foes; thus, the aforementioned Heatran and Glimmora make perfect partners. Rillaboom is forced out by threats like Dragonite, Skarmory, and Corviknight because it's unable to significantly damage them, so partners such as Dragapult and the previously mentioned Raging Bolt should be acknowledged. Dragon-types like Dragapult and Raging Bolt can also give Rillaboom a hard time due to them being resistant to its Grassy Glide, so Pokemon like Iron Valiant and Kingambit make great partners. As a Terrain setter, Rillaboom and its teammates can face difficulty in facing Ice Spinner users like Great Tusk and Iron Treads; as such, it is important to position setup sweepers as soon as possible while also packing checks such as the aforementioned Hatterene for Great Tusk and Zamazenta for Iron Treads. Hatterene is also very useful at keeping entry hazards off the field, which is appreciated by Rillaboom and its teammates. Additional hazard removers such as the previously mentioned Great Tusk also make great partners. Zamazenta is also a wonderful partner that proves itself to be a threatening IronPress user with Grassy Terrain solving its problem with longevity. Comfey can also take advantage of Grassy Seed's Defense boost and Grassy Terrain's passive recovery to set up with Calm Mind and dismantle unprepared teams. Serperior is also an excellent teammate and greatly benefits from Grassy Terrain boosting its Leaf Storm, notably allowing it to KO offensive Gholdengo over two turns.
Calyrex (SS competitive strategy): Calyrex is unviable in SS ZU due to its poor typing coupled with its lack of offensive coverage to put on any immediate pressure. Galarian Rapidash does a better job in this role because of its higher Speed, better typing and ability, and access to reliable recovery. Calyrex attempts to act as a sweeper with its great overall bulk and access to Agility and Calm Mind. However, it struggles in the metagame because some of the top Pokemon like Klinklang and Skuntank resist or are immune to its Grass- and Psychic-type attacks. It also gets walled by the tier's top special wall in Articuno, which can either hit it for big damage with Freeze-Dry or U-turn or use Haze to remove all of its boosts. Calyrex finds a very hard time coming in safely to set up, unlike Galarian Rapidash, which has better defensive typing and reliable recovery to set up more easily, greater Speed to outrun the metagame without needing to boost, offensive coverage to hit the tier at least neutrally, and an ability that doesn't let it get worn down by the very popular Toxic.
Ting Lu (SV competitive strategy): With an incredible typing, fantastic bulk, and an amazing ability in Vessel of Ruin, Ting-Lu is one of the best special walls in the tier, being able to check threats like Raging Bolt, Gholdengo, and Iron Moth. With access to Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Whirlwind—compounded by its absurd bulk—it is one of the tier’s most reliable entry hazard setters and phazers. Ruination is used to apply consistent pressure and make progress by chipping down defensive Pokemon that lack access to recovery, like Landorus-T and Great Tusk. Unfortunately, without any recovery moves outside of Rest, Ting-Lu is usually reliant on Leftovers for passive healing, making it especially weak to Knock Off, unlike similar bulky Ground-types like Gliscor. Rest is an option, usually seen with Sleep Talk, but it is often tough to fit. Ting-Lu can choose to run other items like Rocky Helmet, particularly to punish Rapid Spin from Pokemon like Great Tusk and Iron Treads, and U-turn from Pokemon like Corviknight. Ting-Lu often runs Red Card, utilizing its gargantuan bulk to eat a hit and phaze out the opposing Pokemon. While it is an amazing defensive Pokemon, many foes Ting-Lu would otherwise beat run options to overcome it or shut it down, like Will-O-Wisp or Knock Off Darkrai, Taunt Deoxys-S, and Solar Beam Raging Bolt. Its lack of reliable recovery also makes it highly susceptible to chip damage, so it can be overwhelmed by the number of strong special attackers it must face. Additionally, reliable hazard control options like Magic Bounce Hatterene and Defog Galarian Weezing can prevent Ting-Lu from keeping hazards on the field. Bulky Water-types like Alomomola and Synthesis Ogerpon-W can switch in on Ting-Lu comfortably and, in the latter's case, threaten it for significant damage in return. Ting-Lu's titanic bulk and terrific typing not only make it the tier's premier special wall but also let it set entry hazards easily, with it being able to choose between Stealth Rock and Spikes depending on what its teammates lack. If a Stealth Rock setter is present on the team, then Ting-Lu can run Spikes instead, and vice versa; running Stealth Rock also makes Ting-Lu less passive, as it can use its other disruptive moves more freely without spending its turns stacking Spikes. Ruination allows Ting-Lu to apply immediate pressure, giving it a safe and consistent tool to wear down any foe, particularly those that resist or are immune to its Earthquake like Ogerpon-W and Landorus-T. Whirlwind serves double duty, both allowing Ting-Lu to force out threatening boosted foes like Calm Mind Clefable and Swords Dance Gliscor as well as making any foes lacking Heavy-Duty Boots that are forced in take hazard chip damage. As an alternative to Whirlwind, Ting-Lu can use Heavy Slam to hit threats like Enamorus and Clefable that would otherwise be able to come in easily on it, as well as Hatterene, which would otherwise reflect its hazards. Using both Stealth Rock and Spikes is also a good option, freeing up teamates like Garganacl and Gliscor. Leftovers allows Ting-Lu to constantly recover health, something greatly appreciated given its lack of reliable recovery, while Rocky Helmet lets it punish contact moves, particularly Rapid Spin, albeit costing Ting-Lu some of its longevity. Red Card is an alternative option on offensive teams that allows Ting-Lu to instantly force out boosted threats like Dragonite and Kingambit. It can also drag in Booster Energy users such as Iron Moth and Raging Bolt, wasting their Booster Energy. This also frees up the Whirlwind moveslot to more easily allow the use of both hazards. An alternate spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD with an Impish nature can be used to aid Ting-Lu's matchup against physical threats like Ceruledge and Great Tusk, at the cost of its special bulk. Physical bulk is most effective on Red Card sets in order to make sure Ting-Lu survives boosted physical hits to force a sweeper out. Tera Water allows Ting-Lu to rid itself of its Water and Ice weaknesses, helping it deal with attacks like Walking Wake's Hydro Steam and Weavile's Triple Axel. Tera Poison allows Ting-Lu to shed its Fairy and Fighting weaknesses, helping it deal with threats like Iron Valiant, Enamorus, and Zamazenta, as well as blocking Toxic from Pecharunt and Gliscor that would otherwise threaten to wear Ting-Lu down. Tera Ghost can be used instead to completely nullify any incoming Fighting-type attacks like boosted Body Press from Zamazenta as well as blocking Rapid Spin, allowing Ting-Lu to both set hazards and block hazard removal, albeit at the cost of losing the Fairy resistance Tera Poison gives. Ting-Lu is an incredibly versatile Pokemon that fits well on nearly every offense, bulky offense, or balance team. Ting-Lu's entry hazard-setting prowess allows it to pair with OU's resident removal blocker extraordinaire Gholdengo, ensuring that whatever hazards it sets stay up in the face of Rapid Spin and Defog. Other spinblockers like Pecharunt and Dragapult also can pair with Ting-Lu nicely. Pecharunt in particular forms a good defensive core with Ting-Lu: Ting-Lu takes care of Darkrai and Gholdengo, which would otherwise beat Pecharunt, while Pecharunt helps to manage Swords Dance Iron Valiant, Ogerpon-W, and Zamazenta that would otherwise use Ting-Lu as setup fodder. Ting-Lu’s hazards are greatly appreciated by any attacker, allowing it to pair well with powerful offensive allies like Darkrai and Kyurem. Ogerpon-W in particular benefits from hazards chipping down the few Pokemon that can face the power of its Ivy Cudgel, and Ting-Lu’s defensive traits allow it to take care of Pokemon like Dragapult, Iron Moth, and Raging Bolt that would otherwise check Ogerpon-W. Ting-Lu pairs nicely with physically defensive Pokemon like Dondozo and Galarian Weezing, providing a bulwark against special threats that would otherwise tear through them such as Gholdengo, Iron Moth, and Raging Bolt. Ogerpon-W is an incredibly threatening foe for Ting-Lu, so Pokemon such as Dragonite and Zamazenta that can switch into and threaten it out are greatly appreciated, especially as Ting-Lu complements them by switching into foes that would threaten to wall them like Pecharunt for both or Galarian Slowking for Zamazenta. Additional hazard-setting teammates like Garganacl, Gliscor, and Great Tusk can form a hazard-stacking core with Ting-Lu, allowing it to freely run Whirlwind. The prevalence of Heavy-Duty Boots means Ting-Lu also appreciates Knock Off users like Weavile, Ogerpon-W, and Gliscor to remove them, letting its hazards continuously chip down foes. Ting-Lu's reliance on Leftovers for health recovery can make it vulnerable to hazard chip damage, so it benefits greatly from hazard removal like Great Tusk's or Iron Treads’s Rapid Spin as well as Galarian Weezing's or Corviknight's Defog for teams that are willing to remove the hazards Ting-Lu sets. Galarian Weezing in particular also helps pressure out Gliscor, one of the most reliable switch-ins to Ting-Lu. Ting-Lu's aforementioned Leftovers reliance for recovery also means it greatly appreciates Knock Off absorbers like Gliscor and Corviknight, enabling it to keep its precious Leftovers to avoid being easily worn down. Status absorbers like Gliscor and Clefable are also greatly appreciated, helping Ting-Lu avoid any damaging status that could either nullify or outdamage its Leftovers recovery. Wish support from teammates like Clefable and Alomomola greatly increases Ting-Lu's longevity, giving it extra healing besides Leftovers. Ting-Lu’s bulk, while enormous, can still struggle against powerful super effective attacks like Kyurem's Ice Beam and Enamorus's Moonblast, so teammates like Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking that can cover Ting-Lu’s weaknesses complement it well. Ting-Lu is a solid defensive tank that can be used to answer threats like Dragapult, Gholdengo, and Raging Bolt. Rest allows Ting-Lu to fully utilize its walling potential, giving it more longevity than it otherwise would have by making it much more consistent against foes such as Pecharunt and Will-O-Wisp Dragapult, hazards from the likes of Gliscor and opposing Ting-Lu, and other chip damage such as Garganacl's Salt Cure and Heatran's Magma Storm. Ruination is used to chunk switch-ins such as Landorus-T and provide consistent damage. Payback, an alternative to Ruination, allows Ting-Lu to deal damage to foes weak to Dark, namely Dragapult and Deoxys-S. Sleep Talk's reduced passivity makes Ting-Lu harder to set up on, creating fewer free turns for Pokemon such as Kingambit, Dragonite, and Ogerpon-W. At the cost of being a bit more passive, Ting-Lu can forgo Sleep Talk to compress roles as the team's entry hazard setter by running Stealth Rock if it lacks one. Tera Water allows Ting-Lu to deal with moves from foes such as Kyurem, Walking Wake, and Iron Moth. Tera Poison enables it to become immune to poison from foes it likes to switch into such as Galarian Slowking and Pecharunt while enabling it to come in and out to absorb Toxic Spikes. Furthermore, it allows Ting-Lu to now handle Fighting-types like Zamazenta and Iron Valiant and Grass-type moves from Rillaboom and Ogerpon-W. Ting-Lu fits on a variety of different balance and stall teams. Pokemon such as Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking appreciate Ting-Lu's presence, as it can check faster foes these Pokemon are weak to, such as Dragapult and Darkrai. In return, Gholdengo checks foes that it struggles against like Zamazenta, and Galarian Slowking checks special variants of Iron Valiant and Primarina for Ting-Lu while providing a safe entry point for Ting-Lu through Chilly Reception when baiting in foes like Dragapult. Spikes Gliscor can be used to wear down Ting-Lu checks like Great Tusk. Ting-Lu also struggles with Flying-types such as Dragonite, Landorus-T, and Gliscor because it has to rely on Ruination or Payback to damage them. Dragonite and Gliscor can also use it as setup fodder, so teammates that threaten these Pokemon, such as Kyurem and Ogerpon-W, are appreciated. Dragonite is also a good partner, as it appreciates a Pokemon that can handle Will-O-Wisp Dragapult in addition to checking foes like Ogerpon-W for Ting-Lu. These Pokemon help with Ting-Lu's passivity with the ability to muscle through foes such as Gliscor and Great Tusk. Dondozo is also a great partner on stall teams, stopping any setup attempts from physical threats like Low Kick Kingambit and Dragonite. Dondozo's walling attempts can get punished by Raging Bolt, so Ting-Lu's ability to answer Raging Bolt is appreciated. Clefable is able to provide utility through Knock Off, which, in conjunction with Ting-Lu's Stealth Rock, helps wear down the opposition; in return, Ting-Lu handles Gholdengo for it.This set is easily worn down by entry hazards, so hazard removal through Defog from partners such as Corviknight and Galarian Weezing is appreciated. Pokemon like Zamazenta appreciate Ting-Lu's ability to take on foes such as Will-O-Wisp Dragapult, being able to sponge status and force it out. This set is also used on pivot balance teams alongside Dragapult, Corviknight, and Galarian Slowking, as these Pokemon pivot on Pokemon Ting-Lu can force damage on or set up Stealth Rock against such as opposing Ting-Lu. These teams appreciate Ting-Lu being able to handle foes such as Dragapult, Raging Bolt, and Darkrai. Ting-Lu can utilize its bulk, above-average Attack stat, and solid offensive typing with a Weakness Policy set, activating it against Pokemon like Hatterene, Clefable, Ogerpon-W, and Ice Spinner Dragonite before launching a +2 Earthquake, Stone Edge, Payback, or Heavy Slam in return. This set is most appreciated on faster-paced teams that would appreciate Ting-Lu trading with certain offensive or defensive Pokemon that could be problematic for the rest of your team, catching your opponent by surprise. In a similar sense, Custap Berry is an option on faster teams to lay an additional layer of Spikes or surprise your opponent with an attack like Ruination or Earthquake. Ting-Lu can run Attack investment to hit certain benchmarks, like 2HKOing Darkrai and OHKOing maximum HP Cinderace with Earthquake. With Speed investment, Ting-Lu can run Taunt not only to prevent Pokemon like Galarian Weezing and Corviknight from using Defog but also to prevent Pokemon like Corviknight and Clefable from using recovery moves; it also allows Ting-Lu to outspeed Adamant Kingambit and hit it with Earthquake. Ting-Lu can use Tera Blast Poison, hitting common Fairy- and Grass-type Pokemon like Hatterene, Rillaboom, and Ogerpon-W. Ting-Lu sometimes runs Tera Grass to resist Ogerpon-W's attacks and get entry hazards up against it. Lastly, even with its lower Base Power, Ting-Lu can choose to run Throat Chop over Payback, since the latter does not deal its full damage if the opposing Pokemon switches out.
Zekrom (BW competitive strategy): through Kyogre, Blissey, Chansey, Lugia, Ho-Oh, and most Steel-type category, Latios, Latias, Reshiram, Ho-Oh, and Rayquaza deserve special maximum from Garchomp's Earthquake. Palkia, Rayquaza, Arceus-Dragon, and
Zekrom (XY competitive strategy): Zekrom is a force to be reckoned with in the Ubers metagame, as it possesses an excellent STAB combination along with high-Base Power moves and a great Attack stat. Immunity to paralysis makes it an excellent revenge killer along with a Choice Scarf. Zekrom can lure in Ground-types and deal damage, either for itself or for another teammate, while simultaneously forcing out nearly all Flying- and Water-types. Unfortunately, Zekrom is one of many Pokemon that struggles against Primal Groudon. Though Zekrom can deal damage to Primal Groudon, the latter's bulk makes it a tough opponent for Zekrom. Moreover, Zekrom has trouble spamming its STAB attacks because Fairy- and Ground-type Pokemon are each immune to one of them. Base 90 Speed is also not good enough, as Zekrom needs a Choice Scarf to outspeed important threats such as Arceus, Latios, Latias, and Mewtwo. Hone Claws boosts Attack and accuracy, allowing Zekrom to break through Ground-types with its Dragon-type moves while also reducing the miss chance of Bolt Strike. Bolt Strike complements Zekrom's Dragon STAB type well, hitting Xerneas and other Fairy-types for sizable damage. With just Stealth Rock support, it achieves OHKOs on many significant defensive threats such as Lugia, Arceus-Water, and Yveltal. Dragon Claw is the preferred primary Dragon-type move, as it offers consistency in comparison to Outrage, which has a locking effect that the opponent can take advantage of. In the last slot, Outrage is the preferred move because it grants Zekrom the power necessary for breaking Ground-types, in particular Primal Groudon. However, Substitute is another option that may be used in the last slot to ease prediction, avoid status, and expand Zekrom's setup opportunities, allowing it to set up on Pokemon that would normally wall it, such as Ferrothorn. Notably, it gives Zekrom an edge versus stall teams. Maximum Attack investment ensures that Primal Groudon with 56 Defense EVs and a Defense-boosting nature is always 2HKOed by a boosted Outrage. The HP investment allows Zekrom to always avoid a 2HKO from Jolly Life Orb Arceus's Extreme Speed after taking Stealth Rock damage, letting Zekrom be a last-ditch check to it. The HP EVs also allow Zekrom to survive +2 Jolly Arceus-Ground's Earthquake when at full health in conjunction with Shuca Berry and to never be OHKOed by Primal Kyogre's Ice Beam. The remaining EVs are invested into Speed to allow Zekrom to outspeed Geomancy Xerneas with 44 Speed EVs and a neutral nature. An Adamant nature is necessary for breaking Ground-types; a Jolly nature should never be considered. Shuca Berry allows Zekrom to soft check boosted Mega Salamence and Extreme Killer Arceus, as well as tank any unboosted Ground-type attack from the likes of Primal Groudon in order to set up Hone Claws or 2HKO using Outrage with an already acquired boost. Switch Zekrom into something it can force out, and set up Hone Claws. The beauty of this set is that it is not prediction heavy, unlike Zekrom's other sets; simply force a switch, boost, and see what comes in. Passive Steel-types, such as Klefki, Jirachi, and Skarmory, are Zekrom's primary targets to set up on. Furthermore, a myriad of Flying-types within the tier such as Lugia, Ho-Oh, and Yveltal are easy targets to set up on as well. However, scout for status users before setting up, especially ones with Will-O-Wisp. It is imperative to assess trade-offs—the sole purpose of this set is to lure in and eliminate Zekrom's usual checks and counters in order to ease the sweep of a teammate, so play it aggressively according to this function. However, do not senselessly use Outrage, as Xerneas and other Fairy-types can use Zekrom locked into Outrage as setup fodder. In order to allow safe use of Outrage, eliminate Fairy-types beforehand, or be sure your checks to Fairy-types are healthy enough to subdue them once they have set up. If Substitute is chosen for the last slot, use it to avoid status moves and to punish switches. The main draw of Substitute is to allow Zekrom to set up on Ferrothorn, however it is not recommended to challenge it in a one-versus-one situation. Additionally, bluffing a Choice set early-game can prove fruitful late-game to lure in Fairy-types and Ground-types. Doing so may allow Zekrom to net additional KOs or setup opportunities. Lastly, keep Zekrom healthy if it is needed to check Mega Salamence. Geomancy Xerneas and Choice Scarf Xerneas have a much easier time sweeping once opposing Primal Groudon have been weakened by Zekrom's boosted Dragon-type attacks. In return, Xerneas can switch into Dragon-type attacks aimed at Zekrom. Primal Kyogre especially benefits from Zekrom running Substitute because with it Zekrom virtually walls Ferrothorn, Primal Kyogre's most sturdy check. Zekrom and Primal Kyogre also pressure Primal Groudon immensely, overall making for a nice offensive core that wears down each other's checks. Calm Mind Arceus formes such as Ghost, Ice, Steel, and Ground also make for nice offensive partners, as they appreciate Zekrom's ability to check and eliminate Ho-Oh. The former three's aversion to Thunder Wave from the likes of Klefki is also alleviated by Zekrom's immunity to the move. Primal Groudon can absorb Will-O-Wisp aimed at Zekrom, set up Stealth Rock, and inflict status with Thunder Wave or Toxic on the checks and counters it shares with Zekrom. In addition to being a blanket check to Fairy-types, Primal Groudon also defeats Ferrothorn and Arceus-Grass, two of Zekrom's best checks, with its super effective Fire-type moves. Additional entry hazard support in Spikes and Toxic Spikes is greatly appreciated; Toxic Spikes complements Substitute especially well. Ferrothorn, Klefki, and Forretress are excellent choices; though they stack weaknesses to Primal Groudon, they all appreciate that Ho-Oh is checked by Zekrom. Ground-type checks are greatly appreciated, even though this set's purpose is to lure them in. Yveltal, Giratina-O, Mega Salamence, Ho-Oh, and Skarmory are all excellent; the latter can also provide Spikes to aid Zekrom's wallbreaking prowess. Last but not least, Mega Gengar can trap and eliminate Fairy-types, and it can also keep down entry hazards with Taunt. Bolt Strike demolishes anything that isn't a Ground-type. Outrage hits Pokemon that resist or are immune to Bolt Strike such as Arceus-Grass and Landorus-T and gives Zekrom a fighting chance against offensive variants of Primal Groudon. Draco Meteor hits Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Groudon, and Volt Switch allows Zekrom to maintain momentum for its team while simultaneously inflicting decent damage. Maximum investment in Attack and Speed is necessary for Zekrom to hit as hard and as quickly as possible. A Naughty nature is preferred over Naive in order to 2HKO Electric-neutral, bulky variants of Arceus with Bolt Strike. Teravolt is useful for dealing serious damage to Lugia through Multiscale. This set is typically used on offensive teams that desire both a revenge killer and a dedicated late-game cleaner, as well as a Pokemon that has the ability to outspeed common threats such as Latios, Latias, and Extreme Killer Arceus. Zekrom will be switching in and out often, so don't let it get worn down by repeated attacks and passive damage. Generally, Zekrom should only enter the battlefield on a free switch or a predicted Thunder Wave. When in doubt, scout with Volt Switch, but don't abuse it because Ground-types can block it completely. As all of Zekrom's moves have common immunities, prediction is very important in order to conserve momentum for your team. Predict incorrectly and Zekrom will be unable to effectively deal damage. Stealth Rock support will turn some of Zekrom's 2HKOs into OHKOs, particularly against Lugia, Skarmory, and defensive variants of Yveltal. Primal Kyogre takes on the Ground-types that give Zekrom a hard time in Ubers, particularly Primal Groudon. Ho-Oh also has great defensive synergy with Zekrom due to its massive Special Defense, resistances to Fairy- and Grass-type moves, and immunity to Ground-type moves. Mega Gengar can switch in on Ground-type moves thanks to Levitate before it Mega Evolves and can trap and KO most other threats to Zekrom such as Xerneas. Zekrom also forms a great VoltTurn core with Mega Scizor, which can be switched into Xerneas or Mega Diancie. Bolt Strike is an incredibly powerful STAB attack that plows through anything that doesn't resist it. Outrage is the best choice for a secondary STAB attack, hitting Grass-, Dragon-, and Ground-types which have no trouble taking a Bolt Strike. Alternatively, Dragon Claw can be used if Zekrom does not wish to be locked into Outrage and confused, though Zekrom usually prefers Outrage's power. Volt Switch is the best option in the fourth slot to help Zekrom pivot around and maintain momentum for its team. Tailwind can act as a pseudo-Agility and help Zekrom outspeed the entire unboosted metagame while giving its teammates a temporary Speed boost. However, Focus Blast can be used instead if your team struggles against Ferrothorn. Maximum investment in Attack and Speed is necessary for Zekrom to hit as hard and as quickly as possible. A Naughty nature is preferred over Naive because Zekrom finds maximum Attack to be more useful than maximum Speed. Teravolt is useful to OHKO Lugia through Multiscale. If running Focus Blast, an EV spread of 160 Atk / 96 SpA / 252 Spe can be used to always 2HKO Ferrothorn. The one-two punch of Draco Meteor and Outrage is a great way to lure and KO most Ground-types, including Primal Groudon. Because Zekrom is not locked into a move, its attacks are much more spammable than usual, as Zekrom can Volt Switch out of an unfavorable matchup as long as the foe is not a Ground-type. If running Tailwind, use it on a predicted switch, when Zekrom is about to be KOed, or when facing a foe that does not threaten Zekrom. Be sure to lure and KO opposing Ground-types that attempt to block Volt Switch. After the opponent has lost their Ground-types, use Volt Switch primarily on predicted switch-ins. Zekrom appreciates entry hazard support in order to help it sweep opposing teams more easily. Setters such as Landorus-T, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn can not only set up entry hazards but also take on the Ground-types that give Zekrom trouble. Ho-Oh and Primal Kyogre have great defensive and offensive synergy, respectively, with Zekrom and appreciate Tailwind support to alleviate their somewhat low Speed stats. If running Volt Switch, Zekrom forms a good VoltTurn core with Scizor, which can deal with the Fairy-types that block Zekrom's Outrage. Pokemon that lose to Primal Groudon one-on-one, such as Xerneas, Mewtwo, and Extreme Killer Arceus, enjoy having Zekrom use Outrage to heavily damage Primal Groudon. Fairy-weak Pokemon such as Mega Salamence and Arceus-Dark appreciate Zekrom's ability to dent Fairy-types with Bolt Strike as well. Bolt Strike is a very spammable STAB move that 2HKOes nearly everything that it hits neutrally. Outrage is Zekrom's second best bet against Pokemon that it cannot 2HKO with Bolt Strike, such as defensive Dialga. Dragon Claw is noticeably weaker than Outrage, but it does not prevent Zekrom from switching, so it can be more easily spammed in the presence of Steel-types such as Skarmory. Volt Switch maintains momentum, allowing Zekrom to pivot out of a predicted switch-in or a bad matchup. Maximum investment in Attack and Speed make Zekrom hit as hard and as quickly as possible. An Adamant nature is preferred to boost Zekrom's Attack and not lower its defenses, though Naughty can be used if you do not wish to lower the power of Volt Switch. Teravolt allows Zekrom's Bolt Strike to OHKO Lugia through Multiscale. This set has the role of an extremely powerful wallbreaker, denting the defensive Pokemon that hyper offense teams struggle against. Because Ground- and Fairy-types stop Zekrom cold, you can't be reckless with this set despite its sheer power. Expert prediction is absolutely required to ensure Zekrom can break through opposing walls. Conversely, if you have eliminated your opponent's Fairy- and Ground-types, feel free to spam Outrage and Bolt Strike. To maximize your chances of landing a KO with Zekrom, bring it in against a slower Pokemon that it forces out, particularly Primal Kyogre, Giratina-O, or Blissey, then use prediction to hit the switch-in with the proper STAB attack. Pokemon that appreciate the removal of Zekrom's usual checks make for good partners. For example, Giratina-O and Blaziken enjoy having Xerneas and Primal Groudon defeated, respectively. Ho-Oh and Primal Kyogre have great defensive and offensive synergy, respectively, with Zekrom, so both can take on the walls that Zekrom struggles against, such as Ferrothorn and Arceus-Ground. A Ground-immune Stealth Rock user such as Landorus-T can take Ground-type attacks aimed at Zekrom and wear down opposing walls, making it easier for Zekrom to break them. A pivot such as Genesect or Mega Scizor can form a VoltTurn core with Zekrom and get it in the battlefield unscathed. Sleep Talk allows Zekrom to switch into Darkrai and Smeargle easily and subsequently annihilate them with any move that Sleep Talk selects. Earth Power 2HKOes most variants of Primal Groudon on the switch, but it requires prediction and significant Special Attack investment to use. Magnet Rise can be used on a predicted switch in order to make Zekrom immune to Ground-type moves. Fusion Bolt is an alternative STAB attack with perfect accuracy, but it is significantly less powerful than Bolt Strike and cannot paralyze the foe.
Zekrom (SS competitive strategy): Zekrom is one of the tier's best wallbreakers, wielding a terrifying Electric / Dragon STAB combination and access to Dragon Dance to further enhance its already great Attack and serviceable Speed. The vast number of Flying- and Dragon-types that dominate the metagame makes Zekrom a very scary prospect for any team without a dedicated answer to it. Moreover, Zekrom can be tailored to beat some of its checks, leaving the opponent to guess what move rounds out its moveset. Zekrom is also a potent stallbreaker thanks to its signature ability, Teravolt, which allows it to break walls such as Multiscale Lugia and Shedinja. However, without a Speed boost, Zekrom is easily outsped and disposed of by the multitude of Fairy- and Dragon-types in the metagame. Even with a Speed boost, it contests with common Choice Scarf users that either Speed tie with it such as Kyogre or outspeed it such as Calyrex-S and Yveltal, and Ditto, all of which OHKO it. Dragon Dance boosts Zekrom's already stellar damage output while also boosting its Speed so that it can outspeed fast revenge killers such as Calyrex-S, Palkia and Eternatus. A Jolly nature is run over Adamant to outspeed Calyrex-S. Bolt Strike allows Zekrom to secure 2HKOs against neutral targets such as Necrozma-DM while also guaranteeing OHKOs against Xerneas. Dragon Claw breaks past the Dragon-types that resist Bolt Strike. The final moveslot is open for what you wish to have Zekrom accomplish. Roost lets Zekrom stay healthy while getting chipped by its Life Orb and also provides some much-appreciated recovery on a predicted double switch, while Draco Meteor can be run with a Naive nature to deal with physical walls such as Groudon and Tangrowth that can stomach any other hit and force Zekrom out. A set combining Substitute and Leftovers aims to minimize the chance of Zekrom getting statused while also protecting it from Ferrothorn's Leech Seed. Zekrom appreciates being paired up with special attackers like Xerneas and Kyogre that can break past Zekrom's checks such as Groudon, physically defensive Ferrothorn, and Lunala, while they benefit from Zekrom threatening their respective checks. Sticky Web setters such as Shuckle and Slurpuff mitigate the need for Zekrom to boost its Speed and instead allow it to attack the opposition without fear of being outsped while also making Choice Scarf Calyrex-S outsped by a boosted Zekrom. Spikes support from the likes of Froslass and Ferrothorn punishes switching from the opponent, slowly whittling their team down. Ferrothorn in particular is a fantastic partner, as removing foes' items in a tier where Heavy-Duty Boots is prevalent makes hazard stacking an even more potent strategy. Mixed Zekrom takes advantage of the formulaic nature of Ubers's defensive cores to be a very potent mid-game wallbreaker. Draco Meteor allows Zekrom to break past its traditional checks such as Landorus-T, Groudon, Buzzwole, and Tangrowth and OHKO defensive Zygarde. Roost helps Zekrom remain healthy throughout Life Orb recoil and lets it use non-Earthquake Necrozma-DM as setup fodder. Scale Shot breaks Lunala's Shadow Shield and makes Zekrom tougher to revenge kill by foes like Eternatus and Calyrex-S. Mixed Zekrom doesn't have the best late-game cleaning potential, so strong sweepers are appreciated. Choice Specs Calyrex-S appreciates Zekrom forcing out its checks in Yveltal, Blissey, and Ho-Oh; in return, Calyrex-S threatens Lunala and puts Groudon in KO range of Zekrom's Draco Meteor. Yveltal can bring Zekrom in safely with U-turn and answers Calyrex-S, which can outspeed and KO Zekrom. Ferrothorn can set Spikes to weaken foes, check Ground-types like Groudon and Landorus-T, and switch into Dragon-type moves. Defensive Xerneas can act as a Knock Off switch-in and check Marshadow and offensive Yveltal, both of which can revenge kill unboosted Zekrom. Giving Zekrom an Air Balloon allows it to set up Dragon Dance in front of some of its common checks, such as Necrozma-DM and Groudon, especially on teams that can set Reflect for it. Similarly, Magnet Rise lets Zekrom completely invalidate any Ground-type move thrown its way, but most Ground-types can still deal with it such as Roar or Toxic from Groudon and Thousand Arrows from Zygarde-C hitting regardless. Weather Ball with a Naive nature is an option when paired up with Groudon to hit the various Grass-types that wish to switch in like Tangrowth and Ferrothorn, but it requires Zekrom to come in while sun is still up and is also very prediction heavy. Outrage blows past Zygarde prior to Power Construct activating and has a much higher damage output against all targets, but the abundance of Fairy-types in the metagame means Zekrom being locked into it will end with it getting KOed the very next turn. A damage-reducing Berry in either Roseli or Shuca to sponge a Fairy- or Ground-type move respectively will let Zekrom take an otherwise super effective move, thus limiting the chances the opponent has of revenge killing it.
Coalossal (SS competitive strategy): Coalossal finds a distinct niche in ZU as a Spikes setter that provides good defensive utility against common foes such as Froslass, Articuno, and Rotom. It can force the aforementioned foes out to set up Spikes or remove entry hazards with Rapid Spin. Stealth Rock can be used if Coalossal is not paired with a Stealth Rock setter or if there is already a Rapid Spin user on the team. Rock Blast allows Coalossal to threaten Substitute users such as Rotom and Articuno and entry hazard removers such as Rotom-S and Altaria. Flamethrower lets Coalossal force out Tangela and Klinklang, giving it the opportunity to reliably use Rapid Spin. Flame Body deters physical attackers like Froslass and Silvally from spamming their STAB moves, and it can potentially cripple threats such as Sawk and Kabutops in an emergency situation. Coalossal can provide both entry hazard setting and removal for certain bulky offense teams. As Coalossal has 4x weaknesses to both Water and Ground, it is recommended to pair Coalossal with Grass-types such as Tangela and Thwackey. Tangela is also able to tank hits from Fighting-types such as Sawk and Poliwrath, while Thwackey is able to provide passive recovery and reduce damage from Earthquake. Knock Off absorbers such as Uxie and Alolan Persian can preserve Coalossal's Heavy-Duty Boots, letting it consistently pivot in to remove entry hazards; Uxie can also threaten the aforementioned Fighting-types. Will-O-Wisp allows Coalossal to consistently cripple opposing physical attackers, but it generally has difficulty fitting the move. Overheat is an alternative over Flamethrower, but its low PP and Special Attack drop make it less desirable than Flamethrower. Heat Crash is also a notable alternative, but Coalossal has trouble breaking Tangela with it. Similarly, Stone Edge can be used over Rock Blast, but its low PP and inaccuracy can be exploited by foes like Articuno.
Whimsicott (BW competitive strategy): the likes of Rhydon, Omastar, Kabutops, Feraligatr, and other Water- and Chlorophyll users, including Sawsbuck, Exeggutor, Shiftry, and include Charizard, Emboar, Moltres, Entei, and Typhlosion, as all of as Sceptile, Tangrowth, and Lilligant, but sadly, Whimsicott does not Pokemon with Sap Sipper, such as Bouffalant, Miltank, and Sawsbuck, are it uses a support move. This includes Accelgor, Archeops, Drapion,
Whimsicott (XY competitive strategy): Whimsicott's unique Fairy / Grass typing and diverse movepool allow it to function effectively as a support or offensive Pokemon in the UU tier. With access to Prankster, all support moves gain priority. Usable Special Attack makes Whimsicott a natural check against the many Choice-locked and setup Dragon-types in the tier, such as Haxorus and Hydreigon. A blistering Speed allows Whimsicott to outspeed all base 115 Speed Pokemon and lower, such as Mega Absol. However, Whimsicott is not powerful enough to take on opposing checks, despite outspeeding them. Furthermore, its Special Defense leaves much to be desired, and it is easily worn down by even the weakest of special attacks. With Pixie Plate, Moonblast OHKOes every Dragon-type with Stealth Rock bar Dragalge, Mega Ampharos, and Goodra, as well as having a chance to OHKO other targets it hits for super effective damage, such as Chesnaught and Heracross. Energy Ball is a powerful STAB move for the many Ground- and Water-types in the tier. Giga Drain is an alternative choice that provides decent recovery, regardless of which item is used; however, the power decrease as compared to Energy Ball is noticeable. Encore forces the opponent to repeat the previously chosen move, usually to Whimsicott's advantage. U-turn is used to pivot out of a bad matchup. Tailwind can be used over one of these moves in order to give slower wallbreakers the opportunity to break through faster teams. Stun Spore can be used over Encore as a last-ditch option for offensive teams to combat fast sweepers. 252 Special Attack EVs ensure that Whimsicott revenge kills successfully or at least hits something reasonably hard on the switch in, bar special walls such as Blissey and Florges. 252 Speed EVs allow Whimsicott to hit a unique base 116 Speed tier, allowing it to pivot against the majority of the tier. A spread of 248 HP / 132 Def / 128 Speed can be used to outspeed Pokemon with a base Speed of 100 while taking hits from Pokemon such as Feraligatr and Hydreigon more easily. Running more or less bulk than the given spread is an option as well depending on your preference. Prankster is a fantastic ability that turns Whimsicott's support moves into priority moves, and it is especially effective for luring setup sweepers. Leftovers is used alongside Giga Drain to retain some defensive pressure, despite this being an offensive set. Pixie Plate is used to give Moonblast a boost, as well as bluffing a Choice Specs set. Switch Whimsicott in on a setup sweeper or support move user where Encore can be used. Revenge kill Dragon-, Water-, and Ground-types. U-turn out if the matchup becomes poor or if the obvious switch calls for a momentum shift. Prankster Encore + U-turn is extremely effective at gaining offensive momentum. This set partners well with offensive pivots such as Crobat, Infernape, Mienshao, and Darmanitan as well as defensive pivots such as Forretress and Gligar. Whimsicott appreciates Rapid Spin support from Pokemon such as Tentacruel, Donphan, and Forretress. Encore is used to force the opponent to repeat the previously chosen move, usually to Whimsicott's advantage. Stun Spore is used to further cripple faster Pokemon, such as Crobat or Mega Aerodactyl, as well as other Pokemon that rely on their Speed niche, such as Mega Swampert and Yanmega. Tailwind allows slower wallbreakers to force past faster checks. Leech Seed is used to apply pressure on the opponent's team to wear them down. Giga Drain can be used as a recovery option alongside Leech Seed; however, Moonblast is a generally the better option for attacking Pokemon such as Haxorus or just assisting in whittling down the foe's HP with Leech Seed. Leech Seed + Moonblast and Leech Seed + Stun Spore are both perfectly viable options. U-turn is a decent option that allows for a momentum shift should Whimsicott find itself in a bad matchup, and it pairs well with Prankster Encore. 248 HP EVs maximize Whimsicott's overall bulk while still retaining an odd HP value, allowing for an extra use of Substitute should you decide to run it. 252 Defense EVs improve Whimsicott's defensive bulk, and prevent many physical attackers, such as Choice Scarf Mienshao, from racking up damage on Whimsicott. The remaining EVs are put into Speed in order to outspeed neutral-natured maximum Speed base 85s such as Modest Nidoking and Adamant Heracross. Prankster is a fantastic ability that turns all of Whimsicott's support moves into priority moves. Leftovers is used for passive recovery and significantly improves the effectiveness of Leech Seed and Substitute. A Bold nature should be used with Moonblast, and an Impish nature should be used otherwise. Switch Whimsicott in on a setup sweeper or support move user where Encore can be used. Use Stun Spore on switch-ins for long-term success. U-turn if the matchup becomes poor or if the obvious switch calls for a momentum shift. Prankster Encore + U-turn is extremely effective at gaining offensive momentum. Whimsicott is an easy-to-fit support Pokemon that can work on many different kinds of teams. It partners well with offensive pivots such as Crobat, Infernape, Mienshao, and Darmanitan, providing support for U-turn strategies. Whimsicott also teams up well with defensive pivots such as Forretress, Gligar, and Ampharos for their ability to draw out setup sweepers and wallbreakers. Whimsicott is an exceptionally good partner for offensive Dragon-types, such as Hydreigon that often need to fall back on Whimsicott's support moves. Lastly, Whimsicott appreciates Rapid Spin support from Pokemon such as Tentacruel, Donphan, and Forretress. Moonblast OHKOes every Dragon-type bar Dragalge. Energy Ball is a powerful STAB move for the many Ground- and Water-types in the tier. Giga Drain is an alternative choice that provides decent recovery; however, the power decrease as compared to Energy Ball is noticeable. Switcheroo is ideal against many setup sweepers, especially when paired with Infiltrator. Switcheroo is also effective against special walls, such as Blissey, that otherwise work around Whimsicott's attacks. Psychic can be used to surprise Poison-types such as Crobat. Hurricane can be used as a surprise against Grass-type and Fire-type checks, hitting significantly harder than Moonblast or Energy Ball. U-turn is used to pivot out of a bad matchup. 252 Special Attack EVs ensure that Whimsicott revenge kills successfully or at least hits something reasonably hard on the switch in, bar special walls such as Blissey and Florges. 252 Speed EVs allow Whimsicott to hit a unique base 116 Speed tier, allowing it to pivot against the majority of the tier. Infiltrator is the chosen ability for this set, as Whimsicott's unique base 116 Speed allows it to stop many setup sweepers from effectively setting up. Choice Specs allows for optimal revenge killing and decent wallbreaking with Whimsicott's unique offensive typing. Choice Specs Whimsicott is best used to revenge kill Dragon-, Water-, and Ground-types. It can also prevent setup sweepers from setting up effectively with Switcheroo, crippling the foe with a Choice Specs. U-turn out if the matchup becomes poor or if the obvious switch calls for a momentum shift. Whimsicott partners well with offensive pivots such as Crobat, Infernape, Mienshao, and Darmanitan, providing a unique addition to an offensive U-turn core. It also teams up well with defensive pivots such as Forretress, Gligar, and Ampharos for their ability to draw out setup sweepers and wallbreakers. Lastly, Whimsicott appreciates Rapid Spin support from Pokemon such as Tentacruel, Donphan, and Forretress. Psychic and Shadow Ball are decent attacking options that hit some of Whimsicott's checks, such as Crobat and Doublade, respectively. Other support options include Endeavor, Memento, Knock Off, Sunny Day, and Cotton Spore. Infiltrator with Life Orb can be used in order to bypass the foe's Substitute.
Whimsicott (SM competitive strategy): Whimsicott makes for a good wallbreaker thanks to its defensive typing, usable Special Attack, and coverage options helping it switch into Pokemon such as Passimian, Vaporeon, and Scrafty and threaten potential switch-ins such as Incineroar, Garbodor, and Weezing with solid damage. These traits combined with U-turn and a great Speed tier also make Whimsicott a good pivot that can force out Pokemon such as Sneasel, Alolan Exeggutor, and Seismitoad and bring in the appropriate check. Unfortunately, Whimsicott's Special Attack stat leaves it unable to break through sturdier special walls such as Delphox, Mega Audino, and Ferroseed, while Assault Vest Slowking can also easily scout what Whimsicott locks itself into thanks to its titanic bulk and Regenerator. Additionally, because Whimsicott often uses its defensive typing to switch in and wallbreak, it struggles to stay out of range of priority moves such as Pangoro and Medicham's Bullet Punch and Sneasel's Ice Shard and is prone to being revenge killed by Choice Scarf users with super effective coverage moves such as Passimian and Togedemaru. Moonblast threatens Fighting- and Dark-types such as Passimian, Scrafty, and Sneasel and is Whimsicott's best source of damage against Incineroar. Energy Ball targets Ground- and Water-types such as Rhydon, Steelix, and Blastoise. Psychic lets Whimsicott damage Poison-types such as Garbodor and Weezing super effectively. U-turn enables Whimsicott to pivot out of bad matchups against Pokemon like Delphox and Magmortar. Switcheroo is an option that lets Whimsicott cripple certain checks to it such as Incineroar and Golbat, although U-turn is generally preferred to make Whimsicott a better offensive pivot. Maximum Special Attack and Speed investment with a Timid nature and Choice Specs makes Whimsicott as offensively threatening as possible. Infiltrator lets Whimsicott bypass Substitute and dual screens. Whimsicott should make use of its defensive typing to switch into Pokemon such as Passimian, Scrafty, and Samurott to wallbreak. It should be noted, however, that switching into Knock Off from the likes of Passimian and Pangoro can be detrimental to Whimsicott's wallbreaking capabilities. Because Whimsicott commonly draws in Poison-types, take advantage of that by dealing heavy damage to them with Psychic. Whimsicott struggles to successfully break bulky variants of Incineroar and Delphox and can't make great headway against dedicated special walls like Mega Audino; therefore, pivoting out with U-turn into the appropriate check to such Pokemon is usually the best play. If running Switcheroo, look to cripple Whimsicott's checks such as Incineroar and Steelix by removing their item. However, similarly to losing its item via Knock Off, this will leave Whimsicott much weaker. Whimsicott is a great fit on offensive builds thanks to its defensive utility and ability to keep up momentum with U-turn. Stealth Rock support from Pokemon like Rhydon, Druddigon, and Piloswine is essential alongside Whimsicott, since it helps weaken checks such as Incineroar, Delphox, and Golbat. Rhydon and Druddigon can also check Fire-types, while Piloswine can switch into Ice-types. Rhydon and Piloswine can also both check Flying-types like Aerodactyl and Vivillon. In return, Whimsicott threatens Water-types like Blastoise and Seismitoad. Similarly, Spikes support from Garbodor helps wear down checks to Whimsicott such as Ferroseed and opposing Garbodor and synergizes well with Whimsicott's U-turn. Garbodor also appreciates Whimsicott's ability to check Rhydon. Since Whimsicott commonly draws in Poison-types, Pokemon such as Delphox and Rotom that can take advantage of them are ideal. Similarly, Pokemon such as Passimian and Scrafty that appreciate Whimsicott luring in and heavily damaging Poison-types with Psychic are also good partners. Passimian also forms a VoltTurn core with Whimsicott and threatens several Pokemon such as Sneasel and Aerodactyl that may try to revenge kill Whimsicott. Although Whimsicott can switch into Water- and Ground-types, its lacking bulk means it struggles to consistently, so pairing Whimsicott with a bulky Water-type like Slowking or Blastoise helps alleviate pressure from it. Slowking can also help check Delphox and Magmortar, while Blastoise can handle Incineroar and Sneasel. Knock Off lets Whimsicott cripple Golbat, allowing it to 2HKO it with Psychic, as well as remove Steelix and Delphox's Leftovers and Incineroar's pinch Berry. However, Whimsicott is immediately forced out after using it. Memento is also an option over U-turn that enables Whimsicott to better support setup Pokemon such as Incineroar, Pangoro, and Delphox. Whimsicott can run a SubSeed set that synergizes very well with Toxic Spikes support and helps it bypass certain checks such as Delphox better. However, such a set lacks wallbreaking power and is easily handled by Golbat thanks to Infiltrator. A 3 attacks set with Defog or Encore can work thanks to Prankster enabling Whimsicott to almost always get a Defog off, but the ubiquity of Incineroar hurts this set greatly, and Life Orb recoil makes Whimsicott a less consistent switch-in to Water-types. A support set with moves like Sunny Day, U-turn, and Encore can aid Pokemon such as Victreebel and Charizard extremely well, although such a set is limited to dedicated sun teams. Hidden Power Ground lets Whimsicott lure in and KO Togedemaru while heavily damaging Fire-types such as Delphox and Magmortar, although it has little use outside of this.
Whimsicott (SS competitive strategy): Whimsicott is a very versatile Pokemon; its good offensive Fairy typing and immaculate Speed tier let it revenge kill Pokemon such as Swords Dance Gallade, and it has a defensive presence with its great typing, Prankster, and ability to annoy opposing Pokemon with status moves. It is difficult to play around due to the unpredictability that comes with the great variety of sets it can run and its Speed. However, Whimsicott lacks the Special Attack and coverage to deal much damage. This makes it rely on utility and status moves to disrupt foes. It also lacks great defensive stats to constantly check threats such as Regirock. U-turn is used to get Whimsicott out of bad matchups, especially after using Switcheroo, when its power is lower. Psychic hits Poison-types very hard, doing massive amounts of damage to Weezing and Garbodor, while being a reliable way to hit Fire-types neutrally. Hurricane hits Fire-types harder, 2HKOing Centiskorch and usually 2HKOing offensive Charizard, but is much less reliable than Psychic. Switcheroo is used to disrupt defensive cores, as Whimsicott can force in a Pokemon such as Charizard or Togedemaru that would otherwise wall it and limit the Pokemon's counterplay by giving it Choice Specs. Pixie Plate is an alternative to Choice Specs that sacrifices strength for flexibility, making prediction less of a factor. Whimsicott offensively pairs well with Pokemon that break Fire- and Steel-types, most notably Fighting-type Pokemon that can run Rock-type coverage such as Gurdurr and Sawk. Defensively, it appreciates support from Steel-types such as Aggron and Togedemaru to switch into Poison-, Flying-, and Ice-type moves, as well as a bulky Water-types such as Jellicent and Lanturn to handle Fire- and Steel-types. With U-turn, Whimsicott can form a solid VoltTurn core with the latter partner. Knock Off allows Whimsicott to remove important items such as Leftovers and Heavy-Duty Boots from defensive Pokemon such as Audino and Charizard, making them much less effective at checking offensive threats, while Prankster Encore deals with offensive Pokemon such as Silvally-Ghost and Frosmoth by locking them into a setup move. U-turn is a crucial move for this set, allowing Whimsicott to let wallbreakers such as Lycanroc and Aggron in on its answers like Charizard and Togedemaru, respectively. Stun Spore provides speed control against fast Pokemon such as Ribombee on the switch so that Pokemon such as Gallade can sweep much more easily. Leech Seed gives Whimsicott a form of recovery, allowing it to exploit defensive Pokemon to increase its longevity. Whimsicott pairs very well with Pokemon that like its usual Steel-, Fire-, and Flying-type switch-ins crippled, such as Frosmoth. This set uses Prankster to its fullest potential, catching opposing Pokemon with a Leech Seed and then using Substitute before they can act. The combination of Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery almost makes up for the HP loss of using Substitute every turn, slowly draining the opposing Pokemon's HP until it's in range of a Moonblast. Psychic can be used to annoy Poison-types that can easily break its Substitute, while Knock Off is used to disrupt defensive Pokemon with recovery that can stall Leech Seed. Encore can be used to prevent setup Pokemon such as Ribombee from taking advantage of this set's passive nature while also stalling out the recovery of defensive Pokemon such as Wishiwashi. This set struggles most against Grass-types such as Tangela and Ferroseed, and Whimsicott must be wary of moves such as Dual Wingbeat from Archeops that both break its Substitute and damage it. Defensively, Whimsicott needs Pokemon such as Aggron and Galarian Stunfisk that can tank hits from Pokemon that can get past its Substitute, and these teammates can also benefit from the passive recovery that Leech Seed gives them. It also benefits from Flying- and Fire-types such as Charizard and Magmortar that deal with the Grass-types it struggles against.
Whimsicott (SV competitive strategy): Blessed with the rare Fairy typing and an excellent Speed tier, Whimsicott makes for an excellent revenge killer and utility Pokemon. Whimsicott's unique typing allows it to beat many dangerous threats like Persian-Alola and Virizion. A powerful Moonblast and pivoting coupled with Choice Specs allow Whimsicott to break past bulkier threats like Orthworm and Glastrier. However, Whimsicott's low offensive stats leave it often wanting for power, especially without Choice Specs, and it's incapable of fitting every move it wants. Furthermore, lack of reliable recovery and only average bulk makes it unable to consistently check the Pokemon it's supposed to like Regirock and Sandaconda. Choice Specs Whimsicott takes advantage of its high Speed and Moonblast to be a powerful cleaner and revenge killer. U-turn lets It scout for switches and pivot out of unfavorable matchups like Weezing and Orthworm, allowing it to bring in a more suitable teammate. Switcheroo allows Whimsicott to cripple its defensive checks, greatly hindering special walls like Orthworm and especially Articuno, letting Whimsicott and its teammates break past them later in the game. However, Whimsicott loses a substantial amount of power without its Choice Specs, so one must be careful about when to use Switcheroo. Infiltrator allows Whimsicott to bypass Substitute from foes like Glastrier and opposing Whimsicott. Choice Specs Whimsicott best fits on balance and bulky offense teams looking for a fast offensive cleaner that also provides some defensive utility. Whimsicott loves entry-hazard stacking teammates like Sandslash and Orthworm to help push its otherwise average damage output. It can't handle Fire-types like Charizard and Typhlosion, so answers to them like Regirock and Snorlax help immensely. Whimsicott can in return take advantage of the Grass- and Fighting-types like Virizion and Passimian that these Pokemon are at a disadvantage against. Whimsicott struggles with Poison-types like Weezing and Muk who resist its STAB attacks and threathen it with 4x super effective attacks, so answers like Magneton and Sandaconda make for great teammates. Whimsicott pairs well with offensive Fire-types like Typhlosion and Charizard that handle the Steel-types like Orthworm that it has difficulties breaking past, and in return, it handles their Water and Rock-type answers such as Regirock and Lanturn. Special sweepers such as Oricorio-F and Mesprit enjoy pairing with Whimsicott for its capability to pressure and cripple special walls like Snorlax and Lanturn. Whimsicott leverages its superb Speed and access to Prankster to be a competent offensive pivot. Giga Drain is used for its ability to give Whimsicott staying power in longer games. Encore is key to this set, allowing it to force defensive foes into unfavorable moves like Stealth Rock and Recover, as well as shutting down setup sweepers like Oricorio-F and Snorlax by locking them into their setup moves. U-turn pairs beautifully with Encore, scouting any forced switches and allowing Whimsicott to bring in powerful teammates like Glastrier and Typhlosion. Tera Steel gives Whimsicott an immunity to Poison-type attacks from Muk and Weezing, and a resistance to Flying-type attacks from Dodrio as well as Ice-type attacks from Sneasel in a pinch. However, this still leaves Whimsicott vulnerable to Fire-type attacks from Charizard and Typhlosion and makes it weak to Fighting, making it unable to reliably switch into Passimian and Virizion. Tera Fire provides emergency resistances to Ice and Fire, but this makes Whimsicott unable to safely check Ground- and Rock-types like Sandaconda and Regirock. Balance teams enjoy Whimsicott's pivoting and Prankster Encore helping them deal with bulky defensive Pokemon and dangerous setup sweepers. Powerful physical wallbreakers like Glastrier and Passimian pair well with Whimsicott, as it baits in special walls like Articuno and can bring these teammates in with U-turn. Ground-types like Sandaconda make for excellent partners, as Whimsicott helps them handle the Water- and Grass-types like Clawitzer and Virizion that they struggle with, while they can handle Poison-types like Muk that scare Whimsicott out. Fire-types like Charizard and Magmortar can easily gain entry on Whimsicott, so Fire-resistant teammates like Regirock, Naclstack, and Snorlax are helpful partners. Partners such as Charizard or Passimian that threaten Steel-types like Orthworm and Magneton can come in after a U-turn on these Steel-types to fire off attacks. Electric-types like Jolteon and Magneton appreciate Whimsicott's ability to handle Ground-types like Sandaconda, and in return, they handle the Flying-types like Dodrio and Articuno that Whimsicott struggles to beat. Other offensive pivots like Passimian and Mesprit can form a powerful VoltTurn core with Whimsicott, quickly racking up damage against walls like Regirock and Snorlax, especially with entry hazards up. Psychic is an option that nails Poison-types like Weezing. However, this comes at the cost of either losing U-turn's pivoting or the utility of Switcheroo or Encore. Whimsicott can use a SubSeed set to mess up its usual defensive checks like Snorlax and Orthworm and be a general nuisance. This set struggles to find setup opportunities however and relies heavily on getting a free Substitute on a forced switch.
Boltund (SS competitive strategy): Boltund struggles due to an inability to make progress against common Ground-type Pokemon and Tangela, often forcing its team into an effective five versus six. Use Morpeko instead if you're looking for a physically offensive Electric-type pivot. Boltund aims to use its excellent Speed to revenge kill foes and clean weakened teams with its Strong Jaw boosted STAB and coverage options. However, it finds itself frequently lacking in power and is laughably easy to switch into with some of the most common Pokemon in the tier like Rhydon and Tangela; furthermore, it often gets chipped down rapidly by both Life Orb and hazards. Use Morpeko instead, which boasts stronger STAB options and marginally better defensive utility through its resistances and immunities.
Stoutland (BW competitive strategy): Stoutland makes its niche in PU by hitting very hard. With a Choice Band, excellent Attack, and STAB Return, it shreds most Pokemon that don't resist Normal-type attacks. Stoutland also has great coverage and two fantastic abilities to round out its toolkit, making it a fearsome wallbreaker. However, its Speed falls short of making it a true offensive threat, and some walls like Bronzor can counter it even with coverage. Return is one of the most spammable moves in the tier thanks to its high Base Power and lack of downsides. Superpower is Stoutland's primary coverage, which is able to hit Pokemon that resist Normal such as Klang and Mawile super effectively. Pursuit is also a strong option for hitting certain Pokemon like Beheeyem while they try to switch out, guaranteeing valuable chip damage. The last moveslot is flexible; Facade can be used as an alternate STAB move if Stoutland is poisoned or burned, but Fire Fang can be used as an answer to Bronzor. Stoutland prefers the utility of Intimidate due to the notable lack of Ghost-types in PU, but Scrappy can be useful for hitting the occasional Banette and Frillish with Return. Stoutland's Speed is just enough to outspeed every wall in PU, but it is just shy of beating most offensive threats with the most notable being Monferno. Because of this, walls such as Stunfisk make for good partners to switch to after it is forced out. Stoutland also loves entry hazards, since they make it even harder for foes to switch into its attacks, so hazard setters like Dwebble, Maractus, and Torterra also make for good partners. Other options for partners include faster offensive threats that are enabled by Stoutland's wallbreaking such as Golduck and Rock Polish Torterra.
Stoutland (XY competitive strategy): Stoutland is able to distinguish itself from other Pokemon in the PU metagame with its high Attack stat, good bulk, and access to great abilities in Scrappy and Sand Rush. Thanks to Scrappy, Stoutland is a fearsome wallbreaker due to the fact that it isn't forced to predict around Ghost-types and can use its Normal-type STAB moves freely. Stoutland can also take advantage of Sand Rush to double its Speed under sandstorm, making it an incredibly fast and strong sweeper. These two abilities make Stoutland very effective against defensive and offensive teams, respectively. Stoutland also has great natural bulk, meaning it can avoid being revenge killed by faster Pokemon such as Floatzel and Zebstrika. On the downside, Stoutland faces competition from Dodrio, which is faster and has access to a stronger secondary STAB move in Brave Bird, and Bouffalant, which can break through certain Normal checks better with Swords Dance and Earthquake. Stoutland also has a mediocre Speed tier meaning it can easily be revenge killed by Pokemon such as Leafeon and Monferno. Return is Stoutland's strongest and most spammable STAB move and is extremely difficult to switch into. Facade prevents Stoutland from being crippled by moves such as Will-O-Wisp and Toxic while even punishing the use of these moves by giving it an even stronger STAB move once inflicted by status. Superpower deals a lot of damage to Steel- and Rock-types such as Probopass and Golem. Crunch allows Stoutland to deal more damage to Solrock and Metang, both of which are strong checks to Stoutland. Pursuit is another option that allows Stoutland to deal a lot of damage to Pokemon that it threatens out, even KOing Pokemon such as Grumpig if they switch out. Scrappy allows Stoutland to hit Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Gourgeist-XL with Normal-type moves. Maximum Attack investment along with a Choice Band and an Adamant nature are used to hit as hard as possible, while maximum Speed investment allows Stoutland to outspeed all relatively slow Pokemon such as Cacturne and Pawniard. Stoutland should mainly spam Return and Facade, although if the opponent has a Steel- or Rock-type such as Probopass, Stoutland can use Superpower in order to pick up a KO; however, be wary of locking Stoutland into a move that is resisted by another opposing Pokemon, as Stoutland can then be taken advantage of. Stoutland can be switched into status-inducing moves such as Toxic in order to boost the damage output of Facade, though the negatives sometimes outweigh the positives when it comes to the status infliction. Stoutland can be switched into weaker attacks such as Clefairy's Moonblast and defensive Roselia's Giga Drain, though it should be wary of being worn down. Be wary of using Superpower, as setup sweepers such as Huntail can take advantage of the Attack drop. Slower Pokemon with access to Volt Switch and U-turn such as Probopass and Pelipper can be used to get Stoutland into the field of play without having to take unnecessary damage. Sweepers such as Combusken and Jumpluff appreciate Stoutland's wallbreaking capabilities, as they make it easier for them to sweep. Healing Wish support from Pokemon such as Mr. Mime and Clefairy can be helpful to fully revive Stoutland after it has been worn down or severely weakened. Sticky Web support from Smeargle can slow down foes, making it easier for Stoutland to sweep through opposing teams. Knock Off users such as Leafeon can help to cripple checks like Vullaby and Tangela and remove Leftovers from Pokemon such as Mawile. Return is Stoutland's most spammable STAB move and is extremely hard to switch into. Superpower allows Stoutland to hit Steel- and Rock-types such as Probopass and Golem, which resist Return. Crunch allows Stoutland to hit Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Gourgeist-XL, which are immune to both Return and Superpower. Facade is used in the last slot so that Stoutland can take advantage of Toxic and Will-o-Wisp by acting as a status absorber. An Adamant nature along with maximum Attack investment and a Choice Band allows Stoutland to hit as hard as possible, while Life Orb allows Stoutland to spam its STAB moves without having to predict, at the cost of taking recoil after every attack. While sand is active, maximum Speed investment along with Sand Rush allows Stoutland to outspeed the entire unboosted PU metagame. Once sand has been set up, Stoutland should be brought in as soon as possible to take full advantage of sand turns. In order to keep sand present, make sure to keep Hippopotas alive as long as possible. Hippopotas can be sacrificed late-game, giving Stoutland a free switch in and a chance to sweep. Stoutland shouldn't be switched directly into strong attacks; instead, it should be brought in after a Pokemon has been KOed or on a double switch. Opponents may try to switch around Stoutland to waste turns of sand, so you can predict what Pokemon your opponent will switch in in order to limit this. Hippopotas is a mandatory partner for Stoutland, as it is the only Pokemon in PU that can provide Stoutland with sand thanks to its access to Sand Stream. Rock-types such as Relicanth can get a Special Defense boost from the sand, making them good partners on a sand team. Water- and Grass-types such as Floatzel and Roselia are important in taking on Hippopotas's checks, making it easier to keep it alive throughout the battle. Choice Scarf is an option that allows Stoutland to take on faster Pokemon that would normally outspeed it such as Floatzel and Jumpluff. Work Up can be used to boost Stoutland's Attack stat, though Stoutland is easily revenge killed because of its relatively low Speed. Sleep Talk can be used if nothing else on your team can switch into Sleep Powder. Silk Scarf is another option that, at the cost of power, allows Stoutland to switch moves freely while also bluffing Choice Band. Toxic can be used to cripple Pokemon such as Tangela as they switch in, making them easier to take on later in the battle. Wild Charge can be used to get a stronger hit against Prinplup, Swanna, and Lumineon, but is a poor move to be locked into. Intimidate defensive sets with Rest and Sleep Talk have some surprise factor, but are ultimately outclassed by bulkier Normal-types like Audino.
Stoutland (SM competitive strategy): Stoutland stands out as an amazing wallbreaker thanks to an excellent base 110 Attack and access to Scrappy, which allows Stoutland to more easily spam Return. Its decent bulk allows it to switch in on Pokemon such as defensive Jellicent and Roselia, which also allows it to take a hit from faster foes. Although it has a decent Speed for a wallbreaker, it's still not too hard to revenge kill or be outright outsped. It also has trouble with Fighting-, Steel-, and Rock-types and gets a lot of competition from other Normal-types such as Kangaskhan and Dodrio; however, Stoutland stands out from them due to its large damage output without fear of Double-Edge or Brave Bird recoil. Superpower hits the majority of Pokemon that resist Return for super effective damage, such as Omastar, Regirock, and Aggron. Pursuit deals double damage to Pokemon that switch out, threatening Pokemon such as Musharna and Cryogonal. Facade enables Stoutland to deal massive damage even after being burned, also making the opponent think twice before using a status-inflicting move. It also allows it to better deal with Pokemon such as Jellicent and Sableye. Scrappy allows Stoutland to hit Ghost-types that would otherwise freely switch in on its Return or Superpower. An Adamant nature maximizes Stoutland's damage, but a Jolly nature can be run to outspeed a few key threats, in particular Timid Victreebel, Adamant Kangaskhan, and Jolly Absol. Since Stoutland is holding a Choice Band, it will be locked into using a single move unless it switches out, so be wary of that. You are mainly going to be spamming Return, as not only is it STAB-boosted, but it also neutrally hits a large amount of the tier. Stoutland does best as a wallbreaker when dealing with specially bulky walls such as Clefairy and Audino, and although physically bulky Pokemon such as Regirock and Gurdurr can give it trouble, it can usually wear them down over the match. Fighting-type checks like Jellicent and Silvally-Fairy can deal with Fighting-types such as Primeape and Gurdurr. Water-, Ground-, and Grass-types such as Lanturn, Mudsdale, and Victreebel can help against bulky Rock-type Pokemon like Regirock. Fire-types like Simisear can serve as answers to certain Pokemon that can switch in on Stoutland's moves, such as Tangela and defensive Mawile. Late-game sweepers such as Jynx, Nasty Plot Alolan Persian, and Alolan Raichu appreciate Stoutland's ability to break through walls that would otherwise prevent their sweep. Due to being locked into a single move, Stoutland will be switching in and out a lot, and many entry hazard setters also serve as switch-ins to Stoutland, so hazard removers such as Skuntank and Hitmonchan can be good. Crunch can be run over Pursuit in order to hit certain targets that can otherwise switch in on Return or Superpower, such as Bronzor and Metang, but they aren't very common, so it's a very situational move overall. Silk Scarf can be used if you wish to not be locked into a single move, and it also lures Pokemon in if the opponent thinks Stoutland is holding a Choice Band, but the lack of damage output for a wallbreaker is not worth it. Toxic can be used on lured walls such as Regirock and Carracosta, but Stoutland prefers the offensive pressure of its standard moveset, and Toxic is highly exploitable when Choice-locked. Stoutland run Sand Rush to be used as a sweeper on a Sand team, but Sand teams are overall very mediocre with the relevance of Hail and the only setter being Hippopotas.
Stoutland (SS competitive strategy): Stoutland leaves a lot to be desired in SS ZU. The generational loss of Return leaves the shaggy dog scrambling for replacements for a Normal-type STAB move, all of them either too weak or unreliable. As a result, Stoutland can't really make use of its solid base Attack stat and is very outclassed as a Normal-type attacker by Kangaskhan, Silvally, and Bouffalant, all of which possess much stronger STAB moves, reliable coverage for Normal-resistant foes, and in the case of the latter two, access to a boosting move in Swords Dance. Stoutland attempts to wallbreak through spamming STAB Last Resort, which has no immunities thanks to its ability Scrappy. However, Last Resort is a very unreliable move that requires spending a turn using the much weaker Retaliate, and the set can't do much of anything to bulky Rock- and Steel-types, of which SS ZU has plenty, mainly Klinklang and Rhydon. As a Normal-type attacker, you are much better off using Kangaskhan, Silvally, or Bouffalant, which have more reliable STAB options or the ability to boost with Swords Dance in the case of the latter two.
Diancie (XY competitive strategy): Protect lets Diancie Mega Evolve safely and circumvent its low Speed before Mega Evolution. Protect also serves a number of other purposes, helping Diancie effectively scout Choice item users such as Azumarill, Landorus-T, and Weavile, discerning whether Mega Medicham carries Bullet Punch, and forcing mind games with Mega Lopunny's High Jump Kick. Moonblast is Mega Diancie's strongest and most reliable STAB move, hitting most neutral targets very hard. Diamond Storm helps Mega Diancie act as a mixed attacker, dishing out respectable damage to specially bulky Pokemon such as Chansey and Slowking while destroying key Fire- and Flying-types such as Tornadus-T, Volcarona, and Charizard. The Defense boost it often provides is also notable, potentially coming into play against revenge killers such as Crawdaunt and Weavile. Earth Power is Mega Diancie's best coverage option to threaten important Steel-types, most importantly securing the 2HKO on any variant of Excadrill and Mega Metagross while obliterating Heatran, Magnezone, and Bisharp. Alternatively, Hidden Power Fire can 2HKO Skarmory, Ferrothorn, and Mega Scizor. However, using the latter lowers Mega Diancie's Speed IV, forfeiting the Speed tie against threats such as Latios, Mega Metagross, and the odd Gengar. Stealth Rock can be used in place of Diamond Storm or a coverage option if the team lacks another setter, as Mega Diancie is an effective user of the move due to the number of switches it forces. It is especially noteworthy for being able to keep Stealth Rock up versus stall thanks to its strong matchup against Zapdos, the most common form of entry hazard control on the archetype. A Naive nature is preferred over Hasty, letting Mega Diancie better check Talonflame, Mega Pinsir, and Mega Charizard X while always surviving Gliscor's unboosted Earthquake at full HP and Bisharp's +2 Sucker Punch after Stealth Rock. It is also worth noting that even with a Naive nature, Mega Diancie can survive two uninvested Moonblasts from Clefable as well as take a +1 Giga Drain from Volcarona before Mega Evolving. However, if Stealth Rock is chosen over Diamond Storm, Diancie should instead run a Timid nature to preserve its bulk. In many matchups, players should lead off with Diancie and Mega Evolve safely with Protect to reap the benefits of Mega Diancie's Speed and Magic Bounce. However, choosing to abstain from leading with and immediately Mega Evolving Diancie can be beneficial depending on the circumstance. For example, it may be wise not to lead with Diancie if your team dislikes switching into Scald and the opponent can anti-lead it with a bulky Water-type or if the opponent has a Mold Breaker Excadrill, which can set Stealth Rock freely on Mega Diancie in spite of Magic Bounce. Also, if Diancie is not immediately Mega Evolved, it can act as a better initial pivot into certain Pokemon such as Tornadus-T and Hydreigon due to its regular forme's higher bulk. At later stages in the game, Mega Diancie should be used to soften up defensive cores by firing off powerful attacks. Diancie is best brought in with partners that can pivot into it with U-turn or Volt Switch due to its mediocre bulk, and its health should be preserved if it is needed as a revenge killer or emergency check to a threat such as Bisharp or Dragonite. If this is not the case, Mega Diancie can find additional wallbreaking opportunities by switching directly into Pokemon such as Tornadus-T and Talonflame that can do little to threaten it. Do not shy away from utilizing Protect often; aside from scouting the moves of Choice item users, it can be used to learn valuable information about the opponent's moveset. For example, Mega Diancie should use Protect against Mega Medicham to see if it carries Bullet Punch and against Latios to check for Surf. Mega Diancie finds itself at home on bulky offensive builds that can effectively make use of its Speed, defensive utility, Magic Bounce, and most importantly, its incredible firepower. Fire-types such as Volcarona, Talonflame, and Volcanion can deal with its Steel-type checks and enjoy Mega Diancie warding off Stealth Rock with Magic Bounce. The former two especially appreciate its ability to keep Tyranitar at bay, weaken bulky Water-types, and threaten Heatran with Earth Power. Other Pokemon that are hindered by Stealth Rock and can clean up after Mega Diancie softens up teams, such as Dragonite and Weavile, also appreciate said traits. Magnezone is an excellent teammate if Diancie opts not to use Hidden Power Fire, as it frees up Mega Diancie offensively by trapping and eliminating Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Mega Scizor for it and pivots it in with Volt Switch. It should be noted that Mega Diancie loses to common Stealth Rock setters such as Excadrill, Chansey, and Ferrothorn, making it an unreliable means of entry hazard control. As such, bulky Excadrill is one of Mega Diancie's most common and effective partners, providing vital Rapid Spin support to take the pressure off of Mega Diancie to keep hazards away while preserving the hazards the latter sends back with Magic Bounce. Excadrill also takes care of Magnezone, Clefable, and Jirachi and can cripple bulky Water-types with Toxic while appreciating Mega Diancie's ability to pressure Skarmory and Tornadus-T. Starmie is another good spinner to pair with Diancie, as it can pivot into Scald from bulky Water-types, provide Thunder Wave support, and check Steel- and Ground-types such as Mega Metagross and bulky Excadrill for it. In return, Mega Diancie offensively checks Dark-types such as Bisharp and Tyranitar that give Starmie grief. Both of these spinners are highly fond of Mega Diancie's unparalleled ability to force opponents to switch and pivot around it, giving them more opportunities to come in safely and click Rapid Spin. If Mega Diancie forgoes Stealth Rock, entry hazard setters are important teammates for it to help chip Mega Diancie's answers into range of its powerful attacks and make it near impossible to pivot around. Clefable can use Stealth Rock and Thunder Wave to support Mega Diancie or carry Ice Beam or Flamethrower to deal with Gliscor and Ferrothorn for it. Ferrothorn checks Chansey and bulky Water-types and can set up Spikes as well as Stealth Rock. Lastly, pivots that bring Mega Diancie in and soak up the hits aimed at it are great partners. Tangrowth and Alomomola handle threats such as Mega Metagross and Mega Lopunny for Mega Diancie and give it opportunities to come in safely with Sleep Powder and Wish, respectively. Rotom-W and Tornadus-T can directly pivot Mega Diancie in with Volt Switch and U-turn; the former takes on Mega Scizor and Mega Metagross for Mega Diancie, while the latter checks Serperior and other Grass-types for it. Hidden Power Ice lets Mega Diancie blitz through Landorus-T after Stealth Rock and deal huge damage to Gliscor, which otherwise is able to stall out Moonblasts with Roost. However, Hidden Power Ice is best used alongside Protect due to increased emphasis on scouting Landorus-T's set and greatly increases Diancie's reliance on teammates like Volcarona and Magnezone to handle Steel-types. Calm Mind can let Mega Diancie overwhelm checks such as Clefable and Alomomola and soak up hits from faster Pokemon such as Latios and Thundurus. Unfortunately, this is an extremely niche option because it comes at the cost of Protect, making Diancie painfully easy to revenge kill, and the loss of Diamond Storm makes it far more difficult to break special walls and check key Pokemon such as Mega Charizard Y. In addition, Calm Mind Mega Diancie can still struggle in one-on-one situations with checks that can offensively pressure it such as Gliscor, Chansey, Jirachi, and Amoonguss. Rock Polish gives Mega Diancie the potential to sweep weakened offensive teams on paper, but this is also a subpar option, as it fails to help it against defensive checks and still leaves Diancie completely vulnerable to Bullet Punch and Aqua Jet users. In addition, like Calm Mind, it occupies a valuable moveslot in which Diancie would prefer to carry an important coverage or utility option. Though it can be similarly difficult to fit, Heal Bell lets Diancie offer more team support by acting as a cleric, ridding its teammates of burns from the Scalds that they may have switched into for Diancie.
Diancie (SM competitive strategy): A Hasty nature is chosen instead of Naive so that Diancie can make use of its special bulk to more easily handle special attacks from Pokemon like Heatran and Volcarona. If Mega Diancie forgoes Diamond Storm, a Timid nature should be used instead. Thanks to Mega Diancie's solid matchup against common Defoggers like Tornadus-T and Zapdos, as well as Gliscor and Landorus-T if it carries Hidden Power Ice, it can set up Stealth Rock and discourage them from attempting to remove Stealth Rock. After Diancie Mega Evolves, it can also discourage Gliscor and Landorus-T from attempting to set up their own Stealth Rock. If Mega Diancie is facing a stall team, it can be used in the lead position to discourage Mega Sableye from attempting to block Stealth Rock with its own Magic Bounce, allowing Mega Diancie a free opportunity to set them up. If Mega Diancie is facing a Pokemon that it easily scares out, it can use the opportunity to set up Stealth Rock or use its coverage options to punish predicted switch-ins, such as Earth Power for Magearna and Hidden Power Fire for Mega Scizor. Due to Mega Diancie's crippling weakness to Steel, Hidden Power Fire must be used as Mega Scizor switches in or on a risky prediction because Mega Scizor can immediately force Mega Diancie out with Bullet Punch. Diancie can also potentially hold off on Mega Evolving, as it can make use of its better bulk in scenarios where its Speed stat after Mega Evolving isn't needed. Most notably, it can use that bulk to trade damage against setup sweepers like Mega Charizard X and Volcarona and set up Stealth Rock against the likes of Victini and Tornadus-T if you value its HP over Magic Bounce. If Mega Diancie runs Protect, it can use the opportunity to scout for Choice-locked Pokemon such as Kartana, Landorus-T, and Greninja and act accordingly. Mega Diancie can often be used in the lead position and use Protect immediately against Pokemon that attempt to anti-lead against it, such as Ferrothorn and Landorus-T, as this can discourage them from attempting to set up entry hazards freely. After Mega Diancie uses Protect, it can then switch out against a predicted attack. This is in contrast to the Stealth Rock variant, which requires an opportune time to activate Magic Bounce, as Mega Diancie's frailty makes it difficult to freely set up Stealth Rock or attack unless it is facing a Pokemon that doesn't threaten it, such as Tornadus-T. Do not hesitate to make an aggressive switch to deny hazards if you are willing to take the risk, since this can be a deciding factor between a win and a loss. This Mega Diancie set functions best on offense and bulky offense teams, which value its role compression of a Stealth Rock setter, wallbreaker, and entry hazard blocker. Grass-types like Serperior, Kartana, and Tapu Bulu can threaten bulky Water-types like Gastrodon and Seismitoad. Serperior can provide paralysis support with Glare to cripple faster targets like Mega Alakazam and can lure in and threaten Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Mega Scizor with Hidden Power Fire should Mega Diancie run a different coverage move, such as Earth Power. Choice Scarf variants of Kartana benefit from Mega Diancie breaking through physical walls like Zapdos and defensive Landorus-T, and they can revenge kill faster targets such as Ash-Greninja and Tapu Koko, while Choice Band and Swords Dance sets heavily pressure shared checks like defensive Magearna. Additionally, Kartana can use Knock Off to remove items such as Leftovers from Celesteela and Ferrothorn, making it easier to overwhelm them with repeated attacks. Serperior and Kartana also appreciate Mega Diancie keeping Stealth Rock up against Defoggers like Tornadus-T and Zapdos. Tapu Bulu can extend Mega Diancie's longevity thanks to Grassy Terrain. Pivot support from teammates like Zapdos, Rotom-W, Tapu Koko, Landorus-T, and Tornadus-T is also beneficial, as they can grant a free entry with Volt Switch and U-turn. Heatran provides a solid answer to Steel-types like Magearna and Celesteela and can set up Stealth Rock, allowing Mega Diancie more room to run Protect. Magnezone can trap and remove Skarmory, Celesteela, and Mega Scizor, taking some pressure off of Mega Diancie and allowing it to run Earth Power or Hidden Power Ice over Hidden Power Fire more easily. Wallbreakers like Victini, Kyurem-B, and Weavile benefit from Mega Diancie's ability to block hazards, letting them blow through shared checks like Tapu Fini and Celesteela. Volcarona also appreciates Mega Diancie keeping Stealth Rock off the field, allowing it to set up Quiver Dance more freely. Tapu Lele helps soften the opposing team to allow Mega Diancie to clean up later in the game, and it protects it from priority moves such as Bullet Punch from Mega Scizor and Mega Medicham. Tapu Fini protects Mega Diancie's teammates from status attempts thanks to Misty Terrain, provides a solid answer to Ash-Greninja, and utilizes Taunt + Nature's Madness to break past bulkier teams. If Mega Diancie runs Stealth Rock, it can form a powerful hazard-stacking core with Greninja thanks to its Spikes support. Additionally, Greninja has the benefit of luring in and wiping out Tapu Fini with Gunk Shot and Magearna with Tectonic Rage and threatening Gliscor and Landorus-T with Ice Beam, allowing Mega Diancie to more easily run Hidden Power Fire over Earth Power and Hidden Power Ice. Dragonite and Thundurus-T also benefit from Mega Diancie keeping hazards off the field, as this allows them to set up more safely without being bothered by Stealth Rock. This set is designed to make use of Mega Diancie's status as an offensive Magic Bounce user to create one of the most consistent leads for hyper offense teams. Other leads like Taunt Mew and Imprison Landorus-T need to actively spend a turn to prevent opposing entry hazards, whereas Mega Diancie can focus on setting Stealth Rock thanks to Magic Bounce. The combination of Substitute and Endeavor, coupled with its great Speed, allows Mega Diancie to go above and beyond just hazard control and become a significant threat in its own right. Substitute lets Diancie damage itself at a consistent pace, putting its health as low as possible to maximize the effectiveness of Endeavor. This allows Diancie to threaten even its own checks, like Gastrodon and Ferrothorn, with prompt removal, aiding teammates that may struggle with them. Diamond Storm is a strong STAB option that threatens fast Calm Mind users like Tapu Koko and Mega Alakazam, which would otherwise bulldoze past a lot of hyper offense teams, as well as hitting Rock-weak threats like Volcarona and both Mega Charizard formes super effectively and Fairy-resistant foes like Celesteela and Toxapex neutrally. Moonblast can threaten out Fairy-weak Pokemon like Garchomp and Mega Sableye, the latter of which would otherwise prevent Diancie's Stealth Rock via its own Magic Bounce, additionally hitting physically defensive Pokemon like Landorus-T harder and having significantly more PP. 240 HP EVs maximize Mega Diancie overall bulk while letting it use Substitute four times from full health and end up at 1 HP afterwards to maximize Endeavor damage; this investment also lets Mega Diancie survive three Seismic Tosses from Chansey and for base Diancie to survive an Earthquake from offensive Landorus-T. Maximum Speed investment allows Mega Diancie to outspeed Kartana and Speed tie with Mega Latias and opposing Mega Diancie. The rest of the EVs are put into Defense to give non-Mega Diancie the best chance to survive strong physical attacks like Kartana's Leaf Blade. The nature used depends on Diancie’s choice of coverage; run Jolly for Diamond Storm and Timid for Moonblast. The most important thing to consider when leading off with Diancie is if and when you should Mega Evolve it. The choice between the bulk of non-Mega Diancie and the high Speed of Mega Diancie is yours to make based on the opposing lead, creating an incredibly long list of Pokemon that Diancie can effectively lead off against. The threat of Mega Evolution is usually enough to dissuade opposing leads from attempting to set Stealth Rock, opening up more possibilities for Diancie as a lead. It is often safer to hold off on Mega Evolving when facing Landorus-T, as non-Mega Diancie always survives a Jolly Earthquake from it, and Mega Diancie is outsped and OHKOed by Choice Scarf variants. The same logic applies on a wider scale in terms of taking as little damage as possible by utilizing the better defensive stats of non-Mega Diancie in cases where the superior Speed of Mega Diancie isn't needed; a good example of this is using Substitute against Rotom-W or Magearna before Mega Evolving, as Diancie doesn't need to Mega Evolve to outspeed them and can use the extra special bulk to prevent Volt Switch from breaking its Substitute. After Diancie sets Stealth Rock, it can Mega Evolve to become faster than the opposing Pokemon and repeatedly set up Substitute safely or use Endeavor straight away if it has been severely damaged by the likes of Landorus-T. This set is perfect for hyper offense teams, especially ones that make use of setup sweepers that are crippled by Stealth Rock, such as Volcarona, Mega Charizard X, and Dragonite. Despite how good Mega Diancie is at preventing opposing entry hazards, it still appreciates a backup hazard removal option like Serperior or Choice Scarf Landorus-T in case it gets KOed or Mold Breaker Excadrill bypasses Magic Bounce. As Ash-Greninja can threaten out Diancie in the lead matchup, it's necessary to bring a check to it that fits on the hyper offense playstyle, like Kommo-o, Tapu Fini, or Breloom. Calm Mind Magearna shares checks like Gastrodon and Jirachi with offensive Mega Diancie, so it appreciates how Diancie can lure them in and take them out of commission with Endeavor. Nature Power is an option on offensive Mega Diancie if it is paired with Tapu Bulu or Tapu Koko, granting it a coverage option to let it bait in and wipe out bulky Water-types like Gastrodon and Seismitoad with Energy Ball or 2HKO Celesteela and Toxapex with Thunderbolt, respectively. However, it is less consistent than its other coverage options and takes up a moveslot. Explosion can be used on lead variants to deny any attempts at removing Stealth Rock with Defog or Rapid Spin, provide offensive momentum for its teammates, and act as a surprise factor against Toxapex and Chansey. However, it is less consistent for longer games and forces Mega Diancie to ditch Substitute and Endeavor, leaving it without an option to weaken Heatran and Magearna. Mega Diancie can also make use of Heal Bell to provide cleric support for teammates such as Volcarona, Serperior, and Kartana. However, this forces it to give up a consistent utility option such as Protect, leaving it without an option to scout for potential Z-Moves and Choice Scarf users such as Landorus-T.
Diancie (SS competitive strategy): Diancie's ability to wall many metagame staples and support its team through other useful ways solidly places it at the top of the metagame. It can defensively answer many hard-to-wall wallbreakers such as Exploud and Salazzle and can pivot around other threats like Tauros and Guzzlord. It's also a fantastic Stealth Rock setter by virtue of its good matchup against many of NU's common entry hazard removers and one of a select few clerics available. However, Diancie's great defensive potential is limited by the litany of wallbreakers that can switch into it and easily take it down, such as Starmie and Golurk. Additionally, many Pokemon can lure in and take out or heavily damage Diancie with coverage moves, in particular Iron Head Tauros and Braviary and Hydro Pump Exploud, further restricting its capabilities. Diancie excels as a Stealth Rock setter and cleric because it easily forces out several common Pokemon, including Salazzle, Scrafty, and Talonflame, giving it ample opportunity to get Stealth Rock up or cleanse its team of status. As an alternative to Heal Bell, Moonblast pressures Passimian and Toxicroak, gets chip damage off on Golurk, and makes it harder for Xatu to PP stall Diancie. The EV spread lets Diancie outrun maximum Speed Guzzlord in addition to other threats like Jolly Glastrier and Vaporeon. The biggest benefit to using Diancie is that other potential Stealth Rock setters can utilize other sets and moves. Copperajah is the most notable example, being freed up to run Assault Vest and make better use of its great offensive potential. Diancie is also a phenomenal Talonflame answer, so Pokemon like Passimian and Decidueye pair well with it. Passimian in particular greatly appreciates Diancie's cleric support when up against Flame Body Talonflame. Ground-types like Golurk, Mudsdale, and Palossand are hard stops to Diancie, so pair it with Pokemon like Rotom-C, Starmie, and Vileplume that can handle such foes. Diancie's good coverage lets it effectively run an offensive set, be it Calm Mind or Choice Specs. Such sets can much more reliably pressure Fighting-resistant foes like Sylveon, Vileplume, and Garbodor and can lure in and defeat Steel-types like Copperajah and Escavalier with Mystical Fire. Protect scouts Choice-locked Pokemon such as Rotom-C and Exploud in addition to giving Diancie extra Leftovers recovery. Encore stops slower setup sweepers like Snorlax and disrupts utility Pokemon like Sylveon, but having to find an alternative Stealth Rock setter or dropping Heal Bell or Moonblast is a somewhat large opportunity cost. Trick Room supports slower wallbreakers like Glastrier and Copperajah well but is limited to dedicated Trick Room teams. Toxic occasionally sees use to cripple Ground-types, but it's generally outclassed by Diancie's other moves.
Cinderace (SS competitive strategy): Libero allows Cinderace to hit harder with every move, letting it function as a niche attacker in the Ubers metagame. Its unique move Court Change also gives it a better shot in the metagame, as there are limited effective tools for entry hazard control. Cinderace has good enough Speed to outrun key Pokemon that have between 90 and 100 base Speed such as Groudon, Kyogre, and Rayquaza. Unfortunately, due to its Stealth Rock weakness, Cinderace is forced to use Heavy-Duty Boots rather than an offensive item. Its bulk is also poor, meaning most attacks KO it; however, it can alter its typing to potentially survive a fatal blow. Lastly, Cinderace has a fairly lackluster Attack stat that prevents it from firing off truly powerful blows. Still, its good utility and moves to threaten staples like Necrozma-DM mean you shouldn't fire Cinderace from your club right away. Pyro Ball is typically Cinderace's best attack and hits one of Ubers' best defensive presences well: Necrozma-DM. Court Change gives it an especially excellent matchup against Sticky Web teams, since even re-setting Sticky Web won't restore their Speed advantage. Cinderace can use Gunk Shot to threaten the important Xerneas and possibly poison two of the metagame's strongest defenders: Ho-Oh and Yveltal. Zen Headbutt lets Cinderace bypass common walls like Eternatus and Toxapex that otherwise resist its moves. Sucker Punch can help Cinderace's matchup against offensive threats such as Calyrex-S. The EVs in HP allow Cinderace to survive one Earthquake from Necrozma-DM, and the EVs in Special Defense allow it to survive one Moonblast from standard Xerneas after a Geomancy. The EVs in Speed with a Jolly nature let it outspeed up to Modest Eternatus. Cinderace is an offensive pivot that appreciates teammates it can give momentum to and especially those that give it momentum with their own pivot moves. Therefore, Pokemon like Yveltal and Blissey are good teammates. Other offensive threats greatly enjoy Cinderace's U-turn and Court Change. Groudon is one such teammate that also offers sun and paralysis support. Zekrom, Marshadow, and Calyrex-S also greatly appreciate Cinderace's pivot support. Hyper offense and bulky offense team structures also generally appreciate Cinderace's ability to improve the entry hazard matchup and check Sticky Web teams thanks to Court Change. High Jump Kick is an option to consider on Cinderace that beats common checks such as Tyranitar, Urshifu-S, and Zekrom. Super Fang allows Cinderace to weaken one of the metagame's strongest walls in Zygarde-C. Cinderace can use Life Orb to boost its power, even 2HKOing defensive Ho-Oh with Gunk Shot. Sticky Web teams may prefer Cinderace to run an Adamant nature to threaten OHKOs on Pokemon such as offensive Eternatus, Kyogre, and Marshadow.
Cinderace (SV competitive strategy): With its good Speed tier and high-powered moves complemented by Libero, Cinderace can leverage its offensive moveset to function as an effective pivot and attacker. U-Turn allows Cinderace to pivot out of disadvantageous matchups and deal chip damage, breaking Dragonite’s Multiscale and helping against some Fire-resistant Pokemon like Hisuian Samurott, Tyranitar, and Latios. Court Change gives Cinderace valuable utility, switching entry hazards to the opposing side of the field and enabling its hazard-weak teammates to enter the field multiple times as well as swapping Aurora Veil from opposing Alolan Ninetales. For its last move, Cinderace has multiple options to help round out its coverage. Sucker Punch is a powerful priority move that targets Deoxys-S, Dragapult, and chipped sweepers such as Iron Moth. Gunk Shot snipes Fairy-types that may attempt to handle Cinderace such as Primarina and Clefable while hitting Moltres hard. High Jump Kick 2HKOs Ting-Lu and Garganacl while also OHKOing Kyurem. Tera Fire is used to power up Cinderace’s Pyro Ball, 2HKOing Zamazenta after Stealth Rock damage and OHKOing bulky variants of Gholdengo and Iron Treads. It also helps retain STAB for Pyro Ball even when Cinderace uses another attack. However, Terastriallization renders Libero null for Cinderace’s non-Fire attacks, so it should be used with caution. Offensive pivot Cinderace fits on a variety of teams from offense, bulky offense, and even balance, where its combination of speed, coverage, and utility is highly valued. Cinderace’s greatest boon is its ability to provide reliable entry hazard control in front of Gholdengo while being an offensive threat in its own right, helping teammates vulnerable to hazards such as Kyurem and Life Orb Nasty Plot Tornadus-T enter the field more easily. Kyurem and Tornadus-T place immense offensive pressure on Cinderace’s checks such as Alomomola, Great Tusk, and Landorus-T; in turn, they highly appreciate not being chipped by hazards so they can continue to operate over longer games. Other wallbreakers that appreciate the Water and Dragon-Types that Cinderace lures in include Rillaboom, Raging Bolt, Iron Valiant, Primarina, and Enamorus; Cinderace also helps them enter the field safely. Cinderace struggles with physically defensive Pokemon able to tank its attacks such as Zamazenta, Alomomola, and Pecharunt, so teammates that can handle them such as Ogerpon-W, Gholdengo, and Raging Bolt are highly valued. Ogerpon-W stands out as a particularly strong partner, as it can completely block Water-type attacks aimed at Cinderace with Water Absorb and force progress with its strong attacks and utility, while Cinderace can help transfer hazards away and bring it in via U-turn. Gholdengo helps check Zamazenta and Pecharunt with an immunity to their primary attacks while blocking hazard removal attempts from Great Tusk, Iron Treads, and Corviknight after hazards are transferred. Raging Bolt threatens bulky Water types with its powerful Electric-type attacks, while Cinderace can help pivot it in and act as an emergency switch-in to Fairy-types. Cinderace also loves being paired with other pivots such as Zapdos, Lokix, Galarian Slowking, and Landorus-T, as they can form pivoting cores that can help sustain offensive pressure together on their respective checks. When combining its good Speed with HP investment, Cinderace becomes one of OU's better pivots, able to check threats such as Gholdengo, Scizor, and Kingambit. U-turn allows Cinderace to chip foes and capitalize on switch-ins to bring in its teammates safely as well as greatly damage foes Cinderace might lose to in one-on-one scenarios, such as Ogerpon-W and Hisuian Samurott. Cinderace provides utility to its team with Court Change, temporarily clearing the field of entry hazards as well as the opposing team's Aurora Veil. Will-O-Wisp cripples Pokemon such as Landorus-T that otherwise do not mind Cinderace's Pyro Ball or U-turn and deters slower physical setup sweepers such as Dragon Dance Dragonite and Kyurem from trying to set up in front of Cinderace. With 32 Atk EVs, Cinderace's Pyro Ball OHKOes offensive variants of Gholdengo and threatens 2HKOs against Great Tusk and Zapdos when boosted by Blaze. Tera Fire powers up Pyro Ball, allowing it to OHKO Kingambit and Enamorus while also OHKOing Ogerpon-W and Galarian Slowking with Blaze active. Tera Flying is an alternative that grants Cinderace with an immunity to Ground-type attacks such as Landorus-T and Dragonite's Earthquake, Great Tusk's Headlong Rush, and Enamorus's Earth Power, allowing it to potentially get an extra turn against them to further weaken them with Pyro Ball or cripple them with Will-O-Wisp; Tera Flying also grants Cinderace with a resistance to Zamazenta's Body Press that potentially allows it to cripple Zamazenta with Will-O-Wisp. Similarly, Tera Ghost provides an immunity to Zamazenta's Body Press, as well as to Iron Treads and Great Tusk's Rapid Spin, blocking their attempts to remove entry hazards, and to Extreme Speed from Dragonite looking to revenge kill Cinderace. Heavy-Duty Boots is key in its role as a pivot, allowing Cinderace to remain healthy when hazards are up and switch in multiple times per game. Cinderace finds itself fitting well in bulky offense and balance teams, particularly those looking to make use of its ability to alleviate the pressure of entry hazards. Ogerpon-W can assist Cinderace against the Ground- and Water-types that trouble it such as Landorus-T, Gliscor, Alomomola, and Dondozo as well as Pokemon like Garganacl, Ceruledge, and Heatran; remove Rocky Helmet from the likes of Pecharunt of Hydrapple so Cinderace can use U-turn against them without taking chip damage; and run U-turn itself, allowing it to form a pivoting core with Cinderace. Similarly, Kyurem threatens the aforementioned Ground- and Water-types, as well as Zapdos, Raging Bolt, and Pecharunt. In return, Cinderace is able to bring it in safely with U-turn, threaten Steel-types such as Iron Crown and Scizor that may annoy Kyurem, and keep entry hazards off the field so Kyurem can opt for items other than Heavy-Duty Boots. Raging Bolt and Zapdos threaten the likes of Alomomola, Dondozo, and Moltres while also forming pivoting cores with Cinderace when running Volt Switch or U-turn in Zapdos's case helping it overwhelm the Ground-types like Landorus-T and Ting-Lu that try to check both; Zapdos is also able to take on Great Tusk. Galarian Slowking appreciates Cinderace's ability to threaten Kingambit, Gholdengo, and Weavile while helping against Pecharunt and Primarina as well as crippling physical walls like Alomomola, Moltres, and Zapdos with Toxic. Galarian Slowking's Future Sight and Cinderace's Pyro Ball complement each other to put pressure on the opposing team, as physical walls such as Dondozo and Pecharunt do not want to get hit by Future Sight while the likes of Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Iron Crown that usually do not mind Future Sight, do not want to take on Pyro Ball. Physically defensive and Shuca Berry variants of Galarian Slowking may lure in Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Great Tusk and hit them with either Ice Beam or Psychic Noise, getting rid of them and opening up a path for Cinderace to more easily weaken the opposing team. Assault Vest Alomomola may assist Cinderace by serving as a sponge for special attacks such as those from Walking Wake and Choice Specs Dragapult, as well as taking on Moltres, Heatran, and Landorus-T that annoy Cinderace. Ting-Lu deals with Dragapult, Raging Bolt, Pecharunt, and Glimmora while pressuring Garganacl against which Cinderace finds itself helpless. Due to Court Change being ineffective when both sides of the field have entry hazards, teammates like Great Tusk and Corviknight may provide extra measures to help clear them; Great Tusk also serves as a check to Raging Bolt and Tera Fire Kingambit, while Corviknight provides assurance against the likes of Great Tusk and Zamazenta variants lacking Roar. Dragapult can assist Cinderace against Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Pecharunt, while Cinderace can threaten Kingambit, and help weaken shared checks such as Ting-Lu and Primarina; additionally, it can form a pivoting core with Cinderace when running U-turn.
Bellibolt (SV competitive strategy): Bellibolt carves out a niche for itself thanks to being a bulky Electric-type, which lets it checks dangerous Flying-types like Flamigo, Kilowattrel, and Scyther better than any other wall can. On top of that, it easily punishes the omnipresent U-turn as well as other contact moves like Cinccino's Tail Slap with both Static and its Rocky Helmet, and unlike other walls or tanks, Bellibolt doesn't give up momentum as easily because of its access to Volt Switch, letting it pivot out of bad matchups. Bellibolt's ability to pivot also means that it complements wallbreakers extremely well, giving them a myriad of opportunities to come in. However, this affinity for pivoting can also lead to Bellibolt's downfall, making it quite susceptible to entry hazards if it lacks Heavy-Duty Boots, and if Bellibolt runs that item, then it misses out on the extra chip damage granted by Rocky Helmet, allowing it to be attacked without as great of a concern as otherwise. Additionally, even though Bellibolt can use Toxic to chip away at Ground-types like Flygon and Gastrodon, they still force it out, which grants them a free turn to set hazards or start boosting. Another glaring issue with Bellibolt is its lack of resistances; although a physically defensive Flying-resistant wall with reliable recovery is rare, Bellibolt is often designated as the main physical wall for its team, needing to stomach repeated powerful neutral attacks such as Flamigo's Close Combat and Paldean Tauros-W's Wave Crash. This situation can be worsened even more so if these attackers carry a Choice Band, which they often do, and poison-immune setup sweepers like Toxtricity, Munkidori, and Toxicroak can use Bellibolt as setup fodder, since all it can do is use Volt Switch. Bellibolt's last moveslot is very flexible due to Volt Switch already getting Bellibolt out of bad matchups such as those versus Toxtricity and Toxic punishing Ground-types that want to switch in on it like Gastrodon. This leaves its only significant adversary to be Gligar, which can't be poisoned due to Immunity. For this reason, Bellibolt often goes with Muddy Water to deal good damage to it and fish for accuracy drops against foes. On the other hand, when Soak is used against an incoming Ground-type, it allows Bellibolt to keep up momentum and immediately pivot with Volt Switch. Additionally, it allows Bellibolt to use Toxic against Steel- and Poison-types like Bronzong, Copperajah, and Amoonguss, helping its team out. Chilling Water offers a way to stave off bulky setup sweepers like Bulk Up users such as Scrafty and Poison Heal Breloom. The choice between Rocky Helmet and Heavy-Duty Boots usually comes down to if Bellibolt's team has entry hazard removal: if it does, Rocky Helmet is preferred due to how it lets Bellibolt punish U-turn, Flamigo, and other physical attackers with chip damage, but if there is no removal, Heavy-Duty Boots ensures Bellibolt stays healthy even in the face of hazards. Static complements Rocky Helmet's contact-punishing effects especially well, but its also just Bellibolt's best ability with how it threatens paralysis on all foes that use a contact move. Tera Fairy offers Bellibolt a Fighting resistance, which lets it more easily take a Close Combat from Flamigo, Heracross, and Paldean Tauros-F, and it offers a solid defensive typing that eases its matchup against Flygon and Scrafty. Tera Flying grants Bellibolt a Fighting resistance and a Ground immunity, meaning it can handle a Close Combat when needed from the aforementioned Fighting-types and avoid an Earthquake from Flygon. However, this leaves it open to Stealth Rock chip damage if it lacks Heavy-Duty Boots. One of Bellibolt's biggest issues is with Ground-types like Gastrodon, Flygon, and Gligar, as they block its Volt Switch. This leads to teammates like Decidueye, Alolan Ninetales, and Vaporeon pairing well alongside it. Additionally, thanks to Bellibolt constantly drawing in Ground-types and being able to accumulate chip damage with Toxic, Pokemon that can struggle with breaking past them such as Paldean Tauros-F, Toxicroak, and Diancie enjoy Bellibolt's presence. Entry hazard removers like Tsareena, Altaria, and Avalugg help out non-Heavy-Duty Boots Bellibolt sets, which can be easily overwhelmed by hazards. In a similar fashion, physical wallbreakers like Flamigo, Heracross, and Paldean Tauros-F can blow through Bellibolt with their strong neutral attacks, leading to secondary physical walls like Galarian Slowbro, Sylveon, and the aforementioned Altaria being welcomed as partners. Bellibolt's slow Volt Switch can facilitate the entry of many wallbreakers, and since it commonly draws in Decidueye, Amoonguss, and Alolan Muk, teammates such as Swords Dance Incineroar, Calm Mind or Choice Specs Chandelure, and Choice Band Flygon synergize well, capatilizing on these switch-ins. A complementary special wall like Wo-Chien, Gastrodon, or Alolan Muk pairs well with Bellibolt, as it can handle special wallbreakers like Basculegion-M, Toxtricity, and Chandelure for it, while Bellibolt can take on physical ones such as Cinccino, Flamigo, and Paldean Tauros-F. Acid Spray lets Bellibolt threaten decent chip damage on walls, and it can help partners as well thanks to Bellibolt's Volt Switch. However, it doesn't let Bellibolt rack up chip damage on Ground-types like Toxic does. Parabolic Charge or Discharge can be used, but Bellibolt prefers the pivoting that Volt Switch offers. Bellibolt can run other moves in its last moveslot to aid itself and its team like Reflect, Light Screen, and Thunder Wave, but this leaves it walled by Gligar. Tera Water boosts Muddy Water and Chilling Water, but more importantly, it removes Bellibolt's Ground weakness while giving it Water and Fire resistances, aiding Bellibolt versus Paldean Tauros-W and Infernape. However, these resistances aren't as useful as the ones provided by Tera Fairy or Flying. Tera Poison lets Bellibolt become immune to poison and resist Fighting-type attacks so that it can take on Alolan Muk as well as Fighting-types like Heracross and Flamigo. It maintains Bellibolt's Ground weakness, though. Leftovers can be used on Bellibolt for extra recovery, but the punishment of Rocky Helmet and the security of Heavy-Duty Boots are usually preferred.
Virizion (XY competitive strategy): Virizion is one of the best offensive Pokemon in the RU tier. With a fantastic Special Defense stat and a solid set of resistances to common Grass-, Electric-, Water-, and Rock-type moves, Virizion is able to come in on a multitude of threats and begin setting up with Swords Dance or Calm Mind. While many setup sweepers struggle with a less-than-stellar Speed stat, Virizion doesn't have this issue, as its great base 108 Speed stat puts it in front of dangerous offensive Pokemon, including Flygon, Manectric, and Houndoom. While Virizion doesn't have the greatest attacking stats, its access to Swords Dance and Calm Mind makes up for this. These unique traits give Virizion a strong matchup against most teams that lack threats faster than it. However, while Virizion has high-Base Power STAB moves to utilize, it has an otherwise shallow offensive movepool. Its STAB combination is resisted by common Poison- and Flying-types, such as Weezing, Venusaur, and Togetic, which will almost always reliably check Virizion. While Virizion's typing is very good overall, it does leave it weak to common Fire-, Flying-, and Ice-type moves in a tier where plenty of dangerous Pokemon have access to them. If you can overcome these very few shortcomings, Virizion will be sure to do very well for you and it is a fantastic option for virtually any offensive team. Virizion's flagship set in RU is a simple Swords Dance set. The goal is to come in on a resisted attack, threaten out the foe with a super effective STAB move, and begin setting up with Swords Dance. Close Combat is Virizion's strongest STAB option, and it hammers the likes of Registeel, Mega Glalie, and Aggron very hard. Leaf Blade is a safer STAB move without any drawbacks that is used to deal with the common Water- and Ground-types Virizion can switch into, such as Alomomola, Blastoise, and Rhyperior. The last slot gives Virizion much-needed coverage against Pokemon that resist its STAB combination. Stone Edge is usually the preferred option because Fire- and Flying-types are typically harder to handle defensively, and hitting Pokemon, like Delphox, Sigilyph, and Togetic is generally the better way to go, as the former two are quite difficult to switch into, while the latter can't immediately KO Virizion while it gets 2HKOed by a +2 Stone Edge. Zen Headbutt is an option to beat Poison-types such as Venusaur, Garbodor, and Weezing more reliably. However, keep in mind that these are generally defensive in nature, making them easier to switch into. The EVs couldn't be any simpler for a physical sweeper. A Jolly nature is required to allow Virizion to outspeed the likes of Manectric, Delphox, and Flygon. Lum Berry gives Virizion more flexibility in setting up against more defensive Pokemon, especially bulky Water-types that Virizion loves to switch into. Life Orb is an option that makes Virizion less dependent on setting up with Swords Dance, and it notably allows Virizion to score a 2HKO on Granbull, but it will have a harder time switching into bulky Water-types due to the threat of Scald burns. Justified is Virizion's only ability, but the Attack boost from being hit by stray Dark-type moves is definitely useful. Virizion is best saved for mid- or late-game situations in which it can set up on a defensive Pokemon and sweep once its checks and counters are weakened or outright removed. If you have to use it early-game to remove a dangerous threat, it's generally best to just use the appropriate move rather than setting up when the opponent likely still has a way of dealing with Virizion. Virizion can switch into bulky Water-types and set up Swords Dance reliably when it's wielding a Lum Berry. If Virizion is using Life Orb, you will likely need to wait until late-game to try to sweep with Virizion due to the recoil damage and lack of protection against status moves. However, due to the item's power boost, Virizion won't always need to use Swords Dance to facilitate a sweep. If possible, keep Virizion's coverage move hidden until the opponent sends in a Pokemon against which it is effective. The lone exception would be Fletchinder, as Gale Wings will force Virizion to catch it on the switch with Stone Edge due to the priority given to Acrobatics. When it comes to teammates, preferred ones will largely depend on the coverage move Virizion decides to use. Without Zen Headbutt, Virizion appreciates teammates that can remove Poison-types such as Venusaur, and Garbodor. Fire- and Psychic-type Pokemon, such as Sigilyph, Emboar, Meloetta, Hoopa, and Delphox, generally fare well against these foes. Fire-types are especially useful, as they tend to attract bulky Water-types that Virizion can use to set up on. If Virizion lacks Stone Edge, it will need partners to remove Sigilyph, Delphox, and Togetic. Houndoom can reliably beat Sigilyph and Delphox, while Steel-types, such as Aggron, have little to fear from Togetic. Fletchinder poses a major problem, as Virizion will be unable to sweep as long as it is around due to its access to Gale Wings and Acrobatics. Eelektross, Aggron, Diancie, and Aerodactyl can all beat Fletchinder reliably; however, the latter three need to be wary of Will-O-Wisp. Granbull can be troublesome thanks to Intimidate, a resistance to Fighting, and access to a super effective physical STAB move in Play Rough. Steel-types, such as Escavalier, Magneton, and Aggron can tank Play Roughs comfortably and KO back with their powerful STAB moves. Calm Mind boosts Virizion's Special Attack to very threatening levels while also making it extremely difficult to revenge kill with special attacks, and Virizion is able to utilize it quite effectively due to its good set of resistances, high Speed, and good STAB coverage. Giga Drain is Virizion's primary STAB option, as it deals solid damage and keeps Virizion in good health from Life Orb recoil and possible resisted attacks it takes while setting up. Focus Blast is a powerful STAB move that is extremely useful considering most Pokemon resistant to Fighting-type moves in RU focus on Defense; although it is inaccurate, it's the only special Fighting-type STAB Virizion has access to. Hidden Power Ice rounds out the set by hitting the many Grass- and Flying-type Pokemon that attempt to stop Virizion from sweeping. Virizion needs all of the Special Attack and Speed investment it can get. 252 Speed EVs keep it ahead of Manectric, Delphox, and Flygon, while the Special Attack investment is necessary to maximize damage output. Life Orb is the item of choice, as Virizion needs all the power it can get, and it has a self-healing move in Giga Drain to help offset the recoil. It's tempting to use Leftovers with this set, but the drop in power is pretty significant and Giga Drain is usually enough to keep Virizion healthy enough to sweep late-game. As Virizion carries Giga Drain on this set, it can come in more freely early-game to check threats. This will also help when Virizion attempts to sweep, as the continuous recovery will keep Virizion out of revenge killing range from the likes of Choice Scarf Flygon. While Focus Blast is the strongest move on this set, Virizion should only use it when absolutely necessary; its accuracy is shaky at best, and a miss against the wrong target could result in a premature end to Virizion's sweep. Keep Hidden Power Ice unrevealed until the opponent sends out a Grass- or Flying-type. You should seek out setup opportunities late-game against bulky Water- and Ground-types to send Virizion in to sweep the rest of the opposing team. Fire-types can cause this set problems; Delphox, in particular, is the biggest issue, as Virizion lacks Rock-type coverage and is outpaced by Choice Scarf variants. Houndoom is a notable teammate, being immune to both of Delphox's STAB options. Slowking, Alomomola, Diancie, and Rhyperior are capable of handling most other Fire-types reliably. Meloetta, Manectric, and Aggron generally fare well against many common defensive cores in RU, thus weakening opposing teams for Virizion. Entry hazard support is useful to wear down Fire-types quicker. Rhyperior and Diancie can set up Stealth Rock and reliably beat Fletchinder; they also tend to lure in Water-types that Virizion can use as setup fodder late-game. Qwilfish and Garbodor can set up Spikes and tend to draw attention from Ground-types; the former also lures in Electric-types quite often. Virizion has no chance of sweeping if Fletchinder is left on the opposing team, so make sure you have Pokemon that can remove it reliably. Aggron, Aerodactyl, and Diancie fit the bill well, as does Rhyperior. Virizion's movepool is fairly shallow, but it does have a couple of other options to consider. It has access to Taunt and Synthesis to create a bit of a stallbreaker set, but this tends to waste Virizion's amazing offensive potential. Sacred Sword could be used over Close Combat if the defense drops are really bothersome for you, but the power drop is very significant and thus the move is generally not worth it. Substitute and Hidden Power Fire are options on the Calm Mind set; however, Substitute means Virizion is walled by virtually any Pokemon that resists its STAB combination, while Hidden Power Fire really only hits Escavalier and requires an imperfect Speed IV.
Virizion (SM competitive strategy): Virizion is one of the most dangerous offensive threats in RU with its amazing Speed tier that allows it to outpace threats such as Shaymin, Arcanine, and Fightinium Z Raikou, a stellar STAB combination, and the ability to boost its power with Swords Dance and Z-Moves. Virizion can offensively threaten to break through some of the top Pokemon in the metagame such as Mega Blastoise, Slowbro, Registeel, Milotic, and Rhyperior, turning these Pokemon into potential setup fodder. It is also very hard for most Pokemon to switch into Virizion, as most of its checks are worn down quickly or taken out by Stone Edge, though it requires good prediction to avoid losing momentum. Furthermore, a high Special Defense and access to recovery with Synthesis allow it to be a decent defensive check to Pokemon like Raikou, Milotic, and Mega Sceptile. Despite these amazing attributes, Virizion's attacking power is rather lackluster without a boost from Swords Dance or a Z-Move, making it checked rather easily by Pokemon like Toxicroak, Dragalge, and, if it lacks Stone Edge, Noivern. In spite of its great Special Defense, its low Defense prevents it from switching into Pokemon like Zygarde-10%, Golisopod, and Tyrantrum as well as it could. Virizion can also be quickly worn down by entry hazards, weak attacks, and status conditions. This is especially true with Life Orb sets, since they are forced to use Synthesis more than they would like to, and not running Synthesis makes this even worse. Swords Dance turns Virizion into a threatening wallbreaker. Leaf Blade and Close Combat combined threaten many Pokemon in RU such as Mega Blastoise, Slowbro, and Registeel. Synthesis keeps Virizion healthy, allowing it to stay in battle and sweep much longer as well as check Zygarde-10% and Blastoise much better. Stone Edge can also be used to dissuade Pokemon like Noivern and Salazzle from directly switching in, which is especially great if Virizion's team has issues against these Pokemon. Life Orb gives Virizion an immediate offensive presence and can help threaten to KO Salazzle, Ribombee, and Noivern after Stealth Rock damage if they switch into it, as well as potentially threatening an OHKO on Mandibuzz and Arcanine at +2 after Stealth Rock. Fightinium Z gives Virizion a one-use nuke to KO Pokemon like Arcanine and Ninetales without boosting as well as Metagross, Shaymin, and Mandibuzz at +2. It also bypasses the defense drops that come with using Close Combat. Justified's Attack boost combined with a Z-Crystal makes Virizion a good switch-in to Knock Off from users such as Machamp and Tangela and Mega Blastoise's Dark Pulse. Virzion can function throughout the game by keeping itself healthy with Synthesis. It can wallbreak early in the game and potentially clean up late-game if its checks and counters have been dealt with prior. Virizion's raw damage output is lackluster, so set up with Swords Dance as soon as possible. It can use its high Special Defense, Synthesis, and typing to come in against and check Pokemon like Raikou, Rhyperior, Slowbro, and Milotic. It can even threaten these foes out and begin setting up or heal itself with Synthesis. Just be cautious against Scald or Toxic from some of these Pokemon and be wary of Synthesis's low PP. Virizion can also come in against Knock Off from Pokemon like Machamp, although this play is risky and not always worth the extra boost. All-Out Pummeling should be saved for a Pokemon like Arcanine, Metagross, Mandibuzz, or Bewear or to bypass the defense drops from Close Combat, allowing Virizion to have a better defensive presence against revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Tyrantrum or even priority users at low HP. Afterwards, be mindful of spamming Close Combat, as the defense drops make it lose out of its decent bulk. If running Stone Edge, Virizion can lure Pokemon that normally check Synthesis sets such as Noivern and Salazzle and KO them after Stealth Rock damage. Do not let Virizion be afflicted with status conditions, as they can cut its sweep short. Pokemon like Metagross, Registeel, and Raikou make good teammates, since they can check the Flying-types that can cut Virizion's sweep short. Registeel and Metagross can also switch into Poison-, Psychic-, and Fairy-type attacks for Virizion as well as force these Pokemon out and take Toxic for it. In return, all of these Pokemon appreciate Virizion's ability to threaten out Ground-types. Similarly, partners such as Arcanine, Milotic, Rhyperior, and Tyrantrum can check the Fire-types that threaten Virizion out of battle. Status conditions threaten to stop Virizion from sweeping. Thus, Healing Wish users like Gardevoir and Shaymin can help keep it healthy if it wallbreaks early-game. Defensive teammates such as Cresselia, Snorlax, Slowbro, Porygon2, and Tangela also appreciate Virizion's ability to take Knock Off or Trick so they don't lose their items. Teammates like Machamp, Toxicroak, and Roserade appreciate Stone Edge Virizion's ability to lure and take out Noivern and Salazzle, while partners like Goodra, Ninetales, and Donphan appreciate Synthesis Virizion checking threats to them like Zygarde-10% and Mega Blastoise. A Calm Mind set with Giga Drain, Focus Blast, and Hidden Power Fire can give Virizion a greater defensive presence and allow it to act as a lure to more physically defensive Pokemon like Cresselia and Tangela. However, Calm Mind boosts Virizion's power only one stage, when it needs to be as powerful as possible and boost as fast as possible to be threatening. Lum Berry is an appealing option to relieve Virizion of status conditions and allow it to act as a switch-in to Scald users like Milotic and Slowbro, but it forces Virizion to lose its offensive presence by forgoing its Z-Move. Zen Headbutt can be used to hit Pokemon that resist Virizion's STAB combination such as Toxicroak and Dragalge for super effective damage. However, this move doesn't really hit much else outside of these targets. Grassium Z can also be considered to threaten Pokemon like Cresselia, Necrozma, and Nidoqueen much more, but this option is rather niche compared to the wide coverage that Fightinium Z provides.
Virizion (SS competitive strategy): Virizion's STAB combination and useful coverage let it threaten common defensive cores, making it surprisingly difficult to pivot around. Its fantastic natural special bulk shouldn't be ignored either, as it lets Virizion switch into Heliolisk and bulky Water-types such as Gastrodon and Vaporeon, potentially letting it safely set up. Its Speed tier gives it an advantage on premier Pokemon like Silvally-Ground, Toxicroak, and non-Choice Scarf Rotom-C, but it remains slower than other staples like Talonflame, Salazzle, and Tauros. Despite its offensive coverage, its lackluster Attack stat often requires a turn to Swords Dance for it to break through most teams. Common checks such as Vileplume, Talonflame, and Salazzle can switch in against Virizion's STAB moves and force it to switch, thwarting a Swords Dance sweep. Virizion also faces strong competition with other Fighting-types like Toxicroak and Passimian that hit harder, as well as Grass-types like Tsareena, Rotom-C, and Dhelmise that offer more utility. Virizion is able to set up Swords Dance quite easily thanks to its great defensive typing and natural bulk. Life Orb helps compensate for Virizion's poor unboosted power, whereas Lum Berry allows it to safely set up against opposing Mudsdale or Vaporeon, which may try to use Toxic or fish for a Scald burn. Stone Edge gives boosted Virizion the upper hand against Flying-types like Xatu and Mantine while also OHKOing Talonflame unboosted on the switch. Zen Headbutt lets Virizion hit Weezing, Garbodor, and Vileplume super effectively. Virizion wiping Steel-types and Ground-types help teammates like Tauros, Exploud, and Heliolisk, which are held back by those Pokemon and help beat Poison-types in return. Flying-types often force Virizion out; a fast Electric-type like Rotom-C or Heliolisk works well to scare off the Flying-types but also bring Virizion back in with Volt Switch. Rock-types like Diancie, Stakataka, and Aerodactyl are also good to have as defensive Flying-type answers. Virizion's ability to revenge kill wallbreakers like Silvally-Ground, Drapion after some chip damage, and Toxicroak gives much needed breathing room for Steel-types like Assault Vest Copperajah and Stakataka. Virizion appreciates teammates that switch in on faster threats like Salazzle and Starmie, including both bulky Water-types like Gastrodon, Mantine, and Vaporeon as well as offensive Water-types like Starmie and Inteleon. If you choose Life Orb over Lum Berry, it is best to have a cleric like Sylveon, Vaporeon, or Diancie; the first two also have Wish to heal the entry hazards and Life Orb damage that Virizion will take. Synthesis can be used in place of Swords Dance to give Virizion longevity; this, in tandem with a Rocky Helmet, would let Virizion serve as a great Silvally-Ground check. Virizion can make use of Calm Mind with Giga Drain or Leaf Storm, Focus Blast, and Air Slash, but it doesn't beat anything that the Swords Dance set doesn't besides Vileplume and Dhelmise, whereas Swords Dance better deals with Mantine, Snorlax, and Assault Vest Copperajah.
Virizion (SV competitive strategy): Virizion's great Speed tier and threatening offensive typing make it a dangerous offensive threat that can serve as both a wallbreaker and a late-game cleaner. Virizion has access to Swords Dance, which allows it to boost its attack and wallbreak consistently. Its great Speed tier lets it stay threatening versus offensive teams and even clean them up late-game when its checks are weakened or removed. Virizion has naturally high special bulk and a workable defensive typing that allow it to find set up opportunities versus Choice-locked special attackers like Jolteon, Magneton, and Clawitzer, and there is some ambiguity to its sets thanks to its good coverage and ability to run a physical or special set. However, Virizion isn't especially strong without a boost, and it can struggle to break through physically bulky checks like Weezing and Dipplin. Despite that, Virizion retains a very solid niche thanks to its higher Speed tier and its ability to run coverage options like Stone Edge and Zen Headbutt. Swords Dance allows Virizion to break through bulky foes like Mesprit and Regirock. Stone Edge lets Virizion threaten Charizard, Articuno, and Oricorio-F. Zen Headbutt can be used instead to threaten Poison-types like Weezing and Muk. Justified dissuades foes such as Passimian and Poliwrath from attempting to remove Virizion's item via Knock Off. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Virizion to come in multiple times throughout a game without fear of chip damage from entry hazards. However, Lum Berry is a viable alternative on offensive teams, as it allows Virizion to set up safely on foes that might try to cripple it with status, such as Mesprit, Rotom, and Sandaconda. Tera Rock allows Stone Edge to OHKO Whimsicott and 2HKO Weezing after Stealth Rock damage at +2. It also gives Virizion a resistance to Fire- and Flying-type attacks, which lets it deal with Charizard, Typhlosion, and Oricorio-F with more confidence. Tera Psychic lets Zen Headbutt 2HKO Tera Poison Regirock at +2, do significantly more damage to Weezing, removes Virizion's weakness to their Poison-type STAB moves, and gives Virizion a useful Fighting resistance that can foil revenge killing attempts from Choice Scarf Passimian and opposing Virizion. Virizion's great Speed tier and ability to both wallbreak and sweep depending on the situation make it usable on teams ranging from balanced to hyper offensive team styles. Virizion dislikes facing down extremely bulky physical walls such as Dipplin and Weezing and Iron Defense Pokemon such as Regirock and Orthworm, which can also outlast Virizion should they begin boosting as it comes in. Strong special attackers, such as Nasty Plot Mesprit, Magneton, and Charizard, are therefore good teammates; the former is especially good at disrupting these extremely bulky threats. These teammates appreciate Virizion's Speed tier helping them out against offensive builds and its ability to threaten special walls like Lanturn. Virizion appreciates entry hazards on the opponent's side, as it tends to force a lot of switches and loves seeing its defensive checks worn down. Stealth Rock setters such as Mesprit and Regirock are good teammates as a result, as are Spikes setters like Orthworm. These bulky hazard setters help to check revenge killers that are dangerous to Virizion; Regirock and Naclstack can help check Choice Scarf Typhlosion; Mesprit helps out versus Choice Scarf Passimian. Lanturn pivots into Fire-types like Typhlosion and Charizard easily and can bring Virizion into battle safely with Volt Switch. Virizion pairs well with other physical wallbreakers, especially on offense and hyper offense, as they can work together to break down their shared defensive answers. Teammates such as Swords Dance Sneasel and Glastrier work well as a result. Virizion can run a Tera Flying Calm Mind set using Giga Drain, Air Slash, and Focus Blast or Aura Sphere. This turns the tables on many of Virizion's traditional answers such as Dipplin and Weezing, and Virizion's STAB combination threatens several common special walls, such as Lanturn and Snorlax. However, Virizion can only boost its Special Attack by one stage at a time with Calm Mind, and it is forced to use weak moves unless it opts for the inaccurate Focus Blast as its Fighting-type STAB move, which makes the set considerably less threatening in practice. A mixed attacker set with Leaf Storm, Close Combat, Stone Edge, and Synthesis with a Life Orb can be threatening to certain offensive and balance teams but fails to make significant progress versus builds packing common walls such as Dipplin, Mesprit, and Muk. Sacred Sword is an interesting alternative to Close Combat that ignores the Defense boosts on IronPress foes such as Regirock, Orthworm, and Naclstack and doesn't lower Virizion's own defenses, but the drop in power is very noticeable. Tera Fairy is a fringe alternative Tera type that gives Virizion a Fighting resistance, allowing it to stave off revenge killing from Choice Scarf Passimian, and an immunity to Dragon Tail, which lets it potentially break past Dipplin after accruing multiple Swords Dance boosts. Tera Poison grants Virizion a generally useful defensive typing to counteract revenge killing attempts from the likes of Whimsicott and Passimian. These are inferior to the other Tera types outside of these specific situations, however.
Aegislash (XY competitive strategy): Aegislash is a brilliant Xerneas check and a solid user of Pursuit that can trap Latios, Latias, Deoxys-A, and Mega Gengar, as well as being an all-around solid wall. Aegislash also has a unique move in King's Shield, which drops an opposing Pokemon's Attack by two stages if their move makes contact. Aegislash also has the ability to punish its switch-ins with Toxic. However, many powerful Pokemon can overwhelm Aegislash. Another flaw is that Aegislash lacks reliable recovery outside of Leftovers, which can always be Knocked Off. King's Shield allows Aegislash to regain its solid defensive stats and scout for moves. An added benefit is that King's Shield can drop an opposing Pokemon's Attack if they use a contact move. Gyro Ball is the most powerful move Aegislash can use against offensive Xerneas. Toxic is used to spread consistent damage and punish switch-ins. Pursuit is used to trap Pokemon such as Latias and Deoxys-A, but can also help prevent team members from being sniped by Mega Gengar. If your team doesn't require Pursuit support, then Shadow Sneak can be used as priority or as a method of KOing weakened sweepers. A Sassy nature and 0 Speed IVs are used so that Gyro Ball does maximum damage. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment is so that Aegislash can fulfill its primary purpose of checking Geomancy Xerneas. The remaining EVs are thrown into Defense to help soften physical attacks. Leftovers is used so that Aegislash has a reliable method of recovering HP. Try not to switch in too aggressively against offensive Xerneas, as smart players will wear Aegislash down until it cannot check the Geomancy set. Use Toxic liberally, as it is the only move Aegislash has to punish switch-ins. Try not to take any hits in Blade forme, as its defenses are very low. However, don't use King's Shield too often; if the opponent predicts it, then they receive a free turn. Also remember that King's Shield fails against Shadow Force and its users will neither suffer the Attack drop nor have their attack blocked. Status effects, especially burns, compromise Aegislash's ability to check Xerneas, so it is best to avoid them. Try Pursuit trapping Latios, Latias, Mega Gengar, and Deoxys-A, but be careful if the opponent has both a Xerneas and one of the aforementioned threats, as this can lead to Aegislash becoming too weak to prevent Xerneas sweeping. Clerics such as Xerneas and Clefable can help cure status effects for Aegislash, while Aegislash can Pursuit trap threats such as Mega Gengar for them. Clefable can also provide Wish support, while both Xerneas and Clefable can help check Yveltal for Aegislash. A solid Primal Groudon check is a must, as all Aegislash can do to punish it is to Toxic Primal Groudon on the switch. Lugia and Arceus-Ground can both take on Primal Groudon and Defog away entry hazards. Other options for entry hazard removal include Giratina-O and Tentacruel, while Mega Diancie's Magic Bounce ability can help prevent entry hazards going up altogether. Last but not least, remember that Aegislash is a utility Pokemon that should fit the needs of your team and so should not be built around. Aegislash is very specialized, so it does not have many alternative options that are viable. Sacred Sword can be used to KO Ferrothorn after luring it in. Head Smash and maximum Speed can be used to OHKO Ho-Oh and 2HKO Primal Groudon with a minus Speed nature, but has large recoil damage. Rock Slide is an alternative to Head Smash that comes without the recoil, but fails to OHKO Ho-Oh without Stealth Rock damage. A RestTalk set can be used, but the recovery is unreliable, and Aegislash sorely misses Toxic. Shadow Ball hits Mewtwo and Primal Groudon for decent damage. A Choice Specs set with Shadow Ball / Flash Cannon / Head Smash / Gyro Ball can be used for the surprise factor, as well as its reasonable damage output.
Aegislash (SV competitive strategy): Aegislash's valuable defensive profile and immense natural bulk in Shield forme make it perfectly capable of forcing out and setting up on passive Pokemon such as Slowking, Jirachi, and Amoonguss. Substitute allows Aegislash to take advantage of the aforementioned Pokemon's inability to deal sufficient damage to it while also protecting it from potential status moves from these Pokemon; it also allows it to safely land Toxic on incoming defensive walls such as Hippowdon and Gastrodon, stalling them out in conjunction with King's Shield and recovery from Leftovers. Shadow Ball serves as Aegislash's main STAB move, and alongside Aegislash's naturally high Special Attack stat, is useful for putting pressure onto Toxic-immune Pokemon such as Excadrill, and Mega Sableye. The given EV spread allows Aegislash to 2HKO offensive Excadrill with Shadow Ball after Stealth Rock damage and Leftovers recovery, outspeed uninvested Scizor, and avoid the 2HKO from Enamorus's Earth Power and Mega Gardevoir's Mystical Fire after Stealth Rock. SubToxic Aegislash fits best on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate its ability to safely set up on and wear down defensive Pokemon while also making use of its ability to simultaneously check offensive threats such as Mega Latias. Due to Aegislash's fear of status moves, like Scald burns from the likes of Slowking, as well as Spore from Amoonguss, pivots such as Flip Turn Keldeo, Teleport Slowbro, and Teleport Blissey are helpful to ensure that Aegislash finds safe opportunities against them. Other defensive Pokemon such as Buzzwole, Skarmory, and Clefable can form notable cores with Aegislash; the former two take advantage of Dark- and Ground-types such as Tyranitar and Hippowdon, while Clefable provides additional support in staving off the likes of Buzzwole, which can potentially nail Aegislash on the switch with Earthquake. Knock Off users such as the aforementioned Clefable and Assault Vest Tangrowth are also helpful, as they can remove items from checks to Aegislash like Leftovers from Celesteela and Heavy-Duty Boots from Scizor, giving it an easier time breaking through them in the long-run. Swords Dance turns Aegislash into a potent wallbreaker and sweeper, using its fantastic neutral coverage and bulk in Shield forme to set up against and break through defensive cores. Close Combat is Aegislash's strongest move overall, and it threatens the many Dark-types that would otherwise resist its Ghost-type STAB moves, like Tyranitar Hydreigon. Iron Head is an alternative option that still OHKOes the former two after a boost while also 2HKOing Unaware Clefable. Shadow Sneak is a crucial priority move which at +2 can finish off weakened offensive Pokemon that would normally outspeed and take it out, such as Mienshao and Keldeo, while also being usable to pick off Alakazam without a boost. An Adamant nature is preferred to maximize Aegislash's power, while a Jolly nature can be used instead to get the jump on Pokemon such as Adamant Tyranitar and Bisharp as well as slower variants of Rotom-W. However, this results in Aegislash missing out on certain damage thresholds, such as being unable to OHKO Mega Venusaur at +2 with the combination of Shadow Claw into Shadow Sneak. Ghostium Z is usually preferred to power up STAB Shadow Claw, which, when turned into Never Ending Nightmare, threatens to KO physically defensive Pokemon such as Skarmory and Amoonguss after Swords Dance. However, Air Balloon can be run instead if the team already has a different Z-Move user, and this also allows Aegislash to find free setup opportunities against Ground-types such as Excadrill and Hippowdon, potentially spinblocking the former. Aegislash fits best on more offensive teams that appreciate its defensive utility and ability to break open holes for its teammates early-game. Aegislash also suffers from having terrible bulk in Blade forme, so it is easily revenge killed after attacking, making entry hazard support from the likes of Mew, Swampert, and Tyranitar helpful at chipping down offensive threats like Excadrill into Shadow Sneak range while also pressuring other walls such as Rotom-W. Aegislash's excellent offenses and deep coverage allow it to function as an effective mixed attacker, slicing through a huge portion of the metagame, including defensive staples such as Mega Latias, Slowbro, and Blissey. Additionally, Aegislash's superb defensive traits mean it takes relatively little from their attacks in return, allowing it to find repeated entry against them, as well as soft-check dangerous offensive threats such as Mega Gardevoir, Mega Aerodactyl, and Alakazam. Close Combat forms perfect neutral coverage with Shadow Ball, ensuring Aegislash can consistently threaten the likes of Tyranitar, Bisharp, and Hydreigon. King's Shield provides Aegislash with defensive security against potential revenge killers such as Tyranitar and Hydreigon while scouting Choice item Pokemon such as Keldeo and Iron Boulder. Shadow Sneak gives Aegislash a valuable priority move that can pick off faster threats such as Blacephalon, Iron Boulder, and Mega Gallade. Alternatively, Toxic allows Aegislash to cripple specially defensive Pokemon such as Galarian Moltres and Hippowdon which would otherwise be able to check it, letting Aegislash wear them down effectively in conjunction with King's Shield. Flash Cannon provides a secondary STAB move that consistently threatens Clefable while OHKOing Mega Aerodactyl and Tapu Bulu, something which Shadow Ball into Shadow Sneak cannot do; however, it has little use outside of this. Even with this set's offensively oriented nature, Leftovers is crucial to provide Aegislash with passive recovery, allowing it to leverage its defensive traits and find more opportunities to attack. If longevity isn't a concern, Ghostium Z and Spell Tag are options that can be used on more aggressive teams to boost Shadow Ball's power, letting Aegislash muscle through defensive checks such as Mega Venusaur, Scizor, and Celesteela with greater ease. The given EVs, besides maximizing its Special Attack, ensure Aegislash can 2HKO Chansey with Close Combat after Stealth Rock and outspeed defensive Celesteela, with 240 EVs in HP allowing Aegislash to survive absurdly strong attacks such as Excadrill's Earthquake after Stealth Rock and Tyranitar's Knock Off. Alternatively, Aegislash can opt to run more Speed EVs over HP to outpace various targets, including Scizor, defensive Buzzwole, and Azumarill. However, this comes at the significant cost of cutting into Aegislash's bulk, often compounded by the need to run a Defense-lowering nature. Mixed Aegislash fits best on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate its incredible combination of traits, from breaking down defensive cores with its immediate power to checking faster offensive threats such as Alakazam. Defensive Pokemon such as Buzzwole and Clefable synergize well with Aegislash's ability to deal with the likes of Mega Gardevoir and Enamorus. In return, they can help manage threats such as Hydrapple and Tyranitar, which otherwise force Aegislash out, and set entry hazards to help it break through checks such as Celesteela and Hippowdon. Similarly, other wallbreakers such as Iron Boulder, Serperior, and Keldeo greatly benefit from Aegislash's ability to pivot into faster revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Mienshao and Mega Aerodactyl as well as its ability to capitalize on defensive Pokemon that they may struggle to break through in Skarmory and Blissey. Finally, Aegislash greatly appreciates teammates which can help cripple its few defensive checks; Serperior can lure in Mega Venusaur and Hisuian Goodra and paralyze them with Glare, making it easier for Aegislash to overwhelm them. Offensive pivots like Zeraora and Scizor can use Knock Off to cripple checks reliant on their item, such as Celesteela and Assault Vest Tangrowth; these two can also use Volt Switch and U-turn to ensure Aegislash can find safe entry into potential targets such as Buzzwole and Rotom-W. Bulky Swords Dance Aegislash serves as a terrifying approach to its traditional role as a wallbreaker and setup sweeper, giving up immediate threat potential for incredible resilience. Notably, Aegislash's bulk and passive healing allow it to take repeated hits from Pokemon such as Hippowdon and Mega Gardevoir, giving it extra turns to set up and break through them late-game. Shadow Sneak, especially once boosted by Swords Dance, gives Aegislash a priority move to clean up weakened teams with; it notably OHKOes Iron Boulder and Mega Gallade at +2 and can OHKO offensive Excadrill at +4. Close Combat is Aegislash's strongest move overall and serves as important coverage against common Ghost-type checks such as Tyranitar and Hydreigon OHKOing the latter at +2. King's Shield reverts Aegislash to its Shield forme, preventing it from being reliably revenge killed by faster threats such as Tyranitar, Hydreigon, and Rillaboom and maximizes the amount of recovery gained from Leftovers. Alternatively, Shadow Claw provides Aegislash with a stronger STAB move that can tear through several weakened Fighting-resistant targets at +2, such as Amoonguss, Clefable, and Buzzwole. This Aegislash variant only fits on bulkier teams due to its lack of immediate offensive output and methodical playstyle. Entry hazards from defensive Pokemon, such as Clefable, Gastrodon, and Skarmory, are critical to its gameplan, weakening common Pokemon such as Excadrill, Mega Venusaur, and Hydrapple to where Aegislash is able to pick them off. In return, Aegislash can use its defensive profile to threaten out offensive Pokemon that may take advantage of their passivity, such as Mega Gardevoir, Reuniclus, and Alakazam. Additionally, as Aegislash is very weak to status conditions such as Will-O-Wisp from Rotom-W and Knock Off from Mega Venusaur and Tangrowth, which can also negate its Leftovers recovery, it appreciates partnering with other defensive teammates that can absorb these effects for it, notably Amoonguss, Slowbro, and Blissey. Slowbro and Blissey also provide Aegislash with slow pivoting in Teleport, allowing it to preserve its HP more effectively when trying to set up. By extension, offensive pivots such as Zeraora, Victini, and Mienshao are also valuable teammates, as they can help weaken or deal with several of Aegislash's checks early in the game, like Hippowdon, Foul Play Amoonguss, and Buzzwole.
Victini (BW competitive strategy): V-create's comically high-Base Power augmented by Victini's good stats across the board, ability to pivot, and access to Bolt Strike to hit Water-type switch-ins make Victini the single most potent physical attacker in the metagame. Moreover, with a wide special attacking movepool, Victini also has the capability to run mixed and even fully special attacking sets, letting it pick and choose its counters at will and lending it a dangerous air of unpredictability. Access to Trick further complicates matters, as a wrong prediction will often lead to one of Victini's already limited counterplay options being crippled for the rest of the match. Victini also boasts useful resistances to Fighting-, Grass-, and Steel-type attacks, allowing it to come in freely from full on a myriad of common threats such as Bronzong and Roserade. Despite this, Victini's greatest strengths can prove to be quite double-edged. V-create's stat drops can be quite lethal if it is used too recklessly, leaving Victini vulnerable to being revenge killed by threats it would normally outpace with ease such as Nidoqueen and Choice Scarf Heracross. Victini's middling Speed means that it can often be revenge killed by faster attackers such as Tornadus, Raikou, Mienshao, and Choice Scarf Flygon depending on its choice of set. Victini's weaknesses to common Ground-, Water-, and Rock-type attacks can be problematic for getting it in. Additionally, its weakness to Dark-type attacks leaves it vulnerable to being Pursuit trapped by the likes of Snorlax and Weavile. Lastly, Victini's weakness to entry hazards limits its longevity and opportunities to switch in, leaving it reliant on spinners like Blastoise and the rare Hitmontop. V-create is Victini's strongest attack, OHKOing most neutral targets like defensive Nidoqueen and Zapdos. Bolt Strike provides solid neutral coverage alongside V-create, hitting Water-types such as Blastoise and Slowbro for massive amounts of damage. U-turn takes advantage of Victini's limited counterplay and the amount of switches it forces, helping to get teammates like Raikou and Kingdra in while also chipping down V-create switch-ins like Snorlax and Rhyperior. Trick cripples walls such as Slowbro and Gligar, but Zen Headbutt is a safe midground option in most situations thanks to its solid neutral coverage. Choice Band maximizes Victini's damage dealing capability and potentially allows it to cripple an unsuspecting wall if running Trick. An Adamant nature is a possibility to push Victini's wallbreaking powers to the limit, but it misses out on outspeeding foes like Roserade and Speed tying with Timid Zapdos. Pivots such as Choice Scarf Mienshao, Gligar, and Volt Switch Zapdos make excellent partners, as they can reliably get Victini in to throw off a strong attack to chip down defensive staples such as Rhyperior. Setup sweepers such as Cofagrigus, Virizion, and Calm Mind Raikou also can take advantage of the offensive pressure induced by Victini on Snorlax or Hitmontop and its U-turn support. Blastoise and Hitmontop also deserve special mention, as they can remove entry hazards for Victini, allowing for more opportunities to wallbreak. Entry hazard setters like Rhyperior, Bronzong, and Spikes Roserade can aid Victini in breaking through sturdier walls such as Druddigon and Slowbro. Switch-ins for Ground- and Water-type attacks like Slowking, Tangrowth, and Zapdos are also great teammates, especially after Victini has used V-create. V-create is ludicrously strong, being able to take out most neutral targets in one or two hits. However, Blue Flare is a slightly weaker STAB option with the benefits of hitting physical walls such as Druddigon and Qwilfish harder, no stat drops, and a nifty burn chance. Grass Knot covers most Fire-resistant foes, such as Rock- and Water-types in Rhyperior and Blastoise. U-turn takes advantage of the threat of Victini to get teammates like Rotom-C in freely. Psychic is Victini's best neutral move for foes that resist V-create like Druddigon and Kingdra. Thunder decimates more sturdy Water-types such as Milotic, Slowbro, and Suicune, but it suffers from poor accuracy and can be redundant with Grass Knot. Focus Blast is also an option to hit Snorlax and Scrafty harder but also suffers from accuracy issues in addition to having a very limited set of targets. Expert Belt synergizes well with Victini's coverage, crucially securing an OHKO on Rhyperior after Stealth Rock and guaranteeing a 2HKO on Blastoise after Stealth Rock with Grass Knot. However, Charcoal can be used to slightly boost the power of Victini's Fire-type attack while maintaining the ability to bluff a Choice Band set if using V-create. A Naive nature should be used if using V-create. Entry hazard support from the likes of Roserade, Druddigon, and Nidoqueen is absolutely necessary to fully use Victini's ability to blow past common defensive checks such as Slowbro and Rotom-H with its coverage. The likes of Sharpedo, Virizion, and Durant also all appreciate this set's ability to massively dent physical walls like Nidoqueen, Hitmontop, and Swampert. Blastoise can remove entry hazards, giving Victini more opportunities to wallbreak while also comfortably switching into most Water-type attacks from Suicune, opposing Blastoise, and Swampert. Gligar is also a good partner, as it can make up for Victini's deficiencies as a Fighting-resistant Pokemon while also serving as a switch-in to common Ground- and Rock-type attacks from the likes of Flygon, Rhyperior, and Choice Scarf Heracross. Tornadus deserves a special mention, as Bulk Up variants can clean up after Victini creates holes in the opposition, and Life Orb sets can even set Tailwind to help offset V-create's Speed drop. V-create's extreme power aids Victini in revenge killing dangerous offensive threats such as Raikou and Meloetta. Bolt Strike is Victini's best move to hit Water-types like Blastoise, Slowbro, and Kingdra in addition to Flying-types such as Togekiss. Additionally, Bolt Strike's high-Base Power makes it a great neutral coverage option in situations where using V-create would be disadvantageous. U-turn maintains momentum, taking full advantage of forced switches into walls like Rhyperior and Snorlax due to the threat of V-create. Trick hamstrings common switch-ins such as Rhyperior and Blastoise while also potentially gaining Victini a more useful item. Flare Blitz can be used instead as a stat drop-free Fire-type move, though. Choice Scarf allows Victini to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame and also slower Choice Scarf users such as Heracross and Rotom-C, allowing it to effectively check threats like Virizion and offensive Zapdos. Choice Scarf Victini's ability to clean late-game and revenge kill the vast majority of the metagame means that entry hazard removal from Blastoise or Hitmontop is imperative to pair with it. Wallbreakers such as Choice Specs Raikou and Choice Band Heracross appreciate Victini's ability to pivot them in on passive defensive threats and can open holes for a late-game sweep. Sweepers like Mismagius and Swords Dance Virizion similarly appreciate Victini getting them in for a safe chance to set up and impairing threats like Snorlax with Trick. Choice Specs can be used for more upfront power with no recoil on fully specially offensive sets, but its reliability can be quite suspect, as it is entirely reliant on your ability to predict effectively. Life Orb is an option on the mixed set to fully maximize power, but Victini is already susceptible to residual damage as is, and it also is a strict disadvantage if predictions are missed. Will-O-Wisp effectively cripples counterplay options such as Snorlax, Rhyperior, and non-Refresh Blastoise, but the move's low accuracy can make it risky. Sleep Talk can be used on either Choice item set to absorb sleep but only offers the mildest of situational use. Final Gambit on Choice Scarf sets with maximum HP and Speed investment can be used to functionally almost guarantee a revenge kill or trade, but it jeopardizes Victini's offensive capabilities otherwise. Glaciate can be used on the mixed set to OHKO Flygon outright and have a high chance to do so to Gligar after Stealth Rock, but it doesn’t have much utility outside of that.
Victini (XY competitive strategy): Victini's main claim to fame is its access to V-create, one of the most powerful moves in Pokemon. Thanks to this, alongside its wide movepool, it can act as a solid wallbreaker, with barely any truly reliable counters to its name. Moreover, it has a decent typing with good resistances to common types such as Fairy, Fire, Steel, Psychic, and Fighting alongside good natural bulk, which enables it to check big threats such as Scizor, Mega Metagross, Mega Gardevoir, Breloom, and Clefable lacking Thunder Wave. Unfortunately, it suffers from a large number of flaws, such as V-create's Speed drop, which makes Victini very exploitable after using it. And while its Speed is good, it doesn't match up to many OU threats such as Latios, Keldeo, and Starmie, which can revenge kill it easily. Its typing also leaves it weak to common offensive types like Water, Ground, and Dark, which in turn makes it vulnerable to many common Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Azumarill, and Garchomp. Furthermore, its role as a wallbreaker is severely hindered by its weakness to Stealth Rock, as well as the popularity of Choice Scarf Tyranitar, which can Pursuit trap it. V-create is Victini's main STAB move, bringing extremely high Base Power and having perfect accuracy with Victory Star. Bolt Strike is a powerful coverage move that hits Water-types such as Manaphy, Azumarill, Keldeo, and Starmie as well as Talonflame super effectively. Glaciate enables Victini to hit Dragon-types such as Garchomp, Latios, and Latias, as well as certain Ground-types that are physically bulky enough to comfortably switch into V-create like Landorus-T and Gliscor. It can also slow down faster foes such as Keldeo and Starmie, enabling Victini to outspeed them on the next turn. Energy Ball allows Victini to 2HKO standard Hippowdon, Rotom-W, and Slowbro, which otherwise wall it, as well as hit other physically bulky Water-types such as Suicune, Quagsire, and Gastrodon. Grass Knot can be use over Energy Ball in order to hit Hippowdon, Tyranitar, Mega Slowbro, and Suicune harder; however, it deals less damage to Slowbro and little-to-no damage to Rotom-W. Focus Blast can also be used to 2HKO Heatran and Tyranitar; however, both still take a lot of damage from Life Orb-boosted Bolt Strike and Energy Ball, respectively. Life Orb increases Victini's damage output without locking it into a move, making it much easier for it to wallbreak. An Expert Belt can be chosen in order to bluff a Choiced set more easily, as well as prevent Victini from being worn down via recoil, while still dealing a solid amount of damage to Glaciate and Grass Knot targets, but this makes a neutral V-create significantly weaker and requires more Special Attack investment to 2HKO or OHKO the likes of Latios and Landorus-T. Victory Star makes it so that V-create and Glaciate can never miss and increases the accuracy of Bolt Strike to 92%. This EV spread enables Victini to 2HKO Slowbro and Hippowdon with Energy Ball, OHKO defensive Landorus-T after Stealth Rock, 2HKO Latios after Stealth Rock, and OHKO Naive Garchomp with Glaciate, all the while hitting as hard as possible with physical moves. A Naive nature guarantees that Victini will survive Hippowdon's Earthquake from full health after Life Orb and sand damage, enabling it to beat it one-on-one. It also helps against other physical attackers like Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Talonflame. However, a Hasty nature is preferred if Victini serves as the team's main check to special attackers such as Clefable, Mega Gardevoir, and Mega Charizard Y. V-create is a relatively difficult move to switch into, since most Pokemon that resist it either lack recovery and bulk, meaning they can take it only a couple of times, or are slower than Victini even after the Speed drop and can be hit by the appropriate coverage move next turn. This makes it a worthwhile move to use most of the time. If faster Fire-resistant foes such as Latios, Keldeo, and Talonflame or bulkier Pokemon that can easily take V-create such as Heatran, Tyranitar, and Garchomp are still active, try to predict around them. Otherwise, you should only attempt to hit what Victini is facing with the appropriate coverage move. Glaciate is a good move to use on forced switches, since not only does it 2HKO a handful of Victini's switchins, but it also slows down checks like Keldeo, Choice Scarf Tyranitar, and Choice Scarf Heatran, which eases prediction against them, as they can be hit by the appropriate coverage move the following turn. However, if the opponent is using a Glaciate target, you may want to scout their reaction to Victini before revealing it. This works better on bulky teams, which can give Victini multiple opportunities to come in, especially if VoltTurn support is employed. Grass coverage and Bolt Strike should rarely be used on switches, since most of their targets already take massive damage from these moves and can just be hit with them next turn. The only notable exceptions are Slowbro and, if Victini is weakened to the point where Brave Bird KOes it, Talonflame. Mixed Victini is at its most effective against defensive teams, so when facing those, try keeping it healthy until its checks have been weakened. Against offensive teams, Victini should take advantage of Glaciate in order to help teammates that would want certain offensive Pokemon to be slowed down. Try not to send out Victini when Pursuit trappers are still active, since they can remove it from play, especially Choice Scarf Tyranitar, which switches into it quite easily. Victini fits well on more offensive teams that require a wallbreaker with the usual defensive qualities associated with a Fire- or Psychic- type, such as the ability to check certain Fairy-, Steel-, Fighting-, and Fire-types. Victini's weakness to Pursuit users and Dark-types in general requires it to be paired with a Dark-type check that can take advantage of these such as Keldeo, Mega Lopunny, or Azumarill. Victini hugely benefits from VoltTurn support, since it has trouble finding opportunities to switch in due to its typing, Stealth Rock weakness, and relatively low Speed. Teammates that benefit from bulky Ground- and Water-types being eliminated, such as Mega Lopunny, Mega Charizard X, Excadrill, and Mega Metagross, appreciate Victini's support. Due to its weakness to Stealth Rock, Victini requires support from an entry hazard remover such as Excadrill, Latios, or Starmie; however, the latter two stack a crippling Dark weakness with Victini. Electric-types like Raikou, Mega Manectric, and Thundurus are also great partners, since Victini can lure the Ground- and Dragon-types that check them, all the while enjoying Volt Switch support. Landorus-T is a good teammate for Victini, since it provides U-turn support to enable Victini to get on the field safely, checks Excadrill and Tyranitar, and benefits from Garchomp, opposing Landorus-T, Hippowdon, and bulky Water-types being eliminated by Victini. Victini enjoys Spikes support, since it can quickly wear down checks to it such as Heatran, Tyranitar, Keldeo, Azumarill, and Suicune, as well as lure Latios, Latias, and Starmie, all three of which are common hazard removers. V-create is Victini's most powerful STAB move by far; it is incredibly strong and 2HKOes almost all Pokemon that do not resist it. Bolt Strike is a very strong coverage move that hits Water-types such as Manaphy, Keldeo, Azumarill, and Slowbro super effectively. It also gets good neutral coverage on other Pokemon that resist Fire such as Heatran and Rotom-W. U-turn enables Victini to hit Latios, Latias, and Tyranitar very hard, wear down checks like Rotom-W, and take advantage of forced switches by getting a teammate in for free, thus generating momentum for the team. Trick can disable defensive Pokemon like Quagsire and Heatran. It also lets Victini get rid of its Choice lock, which may be beneficial against slower teams that can easily play around it. Zen Headbutt can be used in order to 2HKO Mega Charizard X, which otherwise walls Victini. Brick Break hits Heatran and Tyranitar super effectively; however, both of these are already hit very hard by Bolt Strike. Choice Band enables Victini to hit incredibly hard, especially with V-create. It is preferred over a Life Orb because the lack of recoil gives Victini more longevity and makes it harder to wear down, which in turn makes it a more consistent check to the likes of Clefable and Ferrothorn. Victory Star increases the accuracy of V-create and Bolt Strike. Maximum Attack and Speed investment lets Victini hit as hard as possible. A Jolly nature enables Victini to Speed tie with opposing positive-natured base 100 Pokemon, particularly Manaphy. However, an Adamant nature can also be chosen in order to give Victini even more firepower; for instance, it can 2HKO Rotom-W after Stealth Rock damage much more easily. You should always remove entry hazards before sending Victini in, since the residual damage will severely compromise its role as a wallbreaker and U-turn user by preventing it from outlasting its checks. V-create should be used when Pokemon that resist Fire are gone or weakened to the point where V-create will KO them. Use U-turn early on in the battle in order to weaken Victini's checks, ease prediction, and let a teammate come in for free. U-turn is especially good against Pokemon that cannot deal much damage to Victini and must therefore switch out. Don't rely on U-turn too much, though, since the opponent may predict it and stay in, preventing you from reliably gaining momentum. Trick is a good move to use if Victini would benefit more from the ability to switch moves than the raw power brought by the Choice Band. It is particularly useful against stall teams, whose answers to Victini are usually severely crippled by Trick. Against more offensive teams whose Fire-type checks lack reliable recovery, V-create is a very safe move to use, unless the opposing team has Heatran or Garchomp. In the latter case, Victini should not be sent out at all, unless your team would benefit from Garchomp being weakened at the cost of losing Victini. Use Bolt Strike when you predict Talonflame, Heatran, or bulky Water-types that are not part Ground-types to switch in. However, it is usually better to use U-turn early on in the battle, in order to gauge the opponent's reaction to Victini, and use Bolt Strike later on. Victini fits well on offensive teams that require a physical wallbreaker that can weaken Pokemon like Landorus-T and Hippowdon so that other Pokemon can sweep, all the while serving as a decent check to certain Fairy-, Fire-, Fighting-, and Steel- types. Fighting-types such as Keldeo, Mega Lopunny, and Terrakion can take advantage of Pursuit trappers, which can easily remove Victini after it KOes a Pokemon. Victini is severely hampered by Garchomp's presence on the opposing team in general, so something that can weaken Garchomp, such as Ice Punch Lopunny, Ice Punch Metagross, or Swords Dance Landorus-T, can also help it considerably by quickly and painlessly removing it. Entry hazards are extremely crippling for Victini, since it has a Stealth Rock weakness and must switch out often due to its Choice lock. Hence, Victini should be paired up with a hazard remover, such as Skarmory. Spikes and Toxic Spikes really help Victini by wearing down or disabling checks to it such as Garchomp and Quagsire. However, if they are used, a spinner such as Excadrill is preferred over a Defogger. Bisharp is a particularly good partner for Victini because it not only deters hazard removal with Defiant but also helps wear down other checks such as Garchomp, Hippowdon, and Keldeo. Victini is very weak to sand teams and requires a check to Sand Rush Excadrill, such as Azumarill, Breloom, Rotom-W, or Mega Alakazam. Victini works very well in VoltTurn cores due to its access to U-turn as well as its low Speed making it difficult for it to come in without support from a slow pivot. As a result, U-turn or Volt Switch users such as Landorus-T, Scizor, Tornadus-T, and Mega Manectric are all good partners. Grass-types like Mega Venusaur help Victini handle the Water- and Ground-types it tends to struggle with. Victini can use a Choice Scarf set; however, it's severely lacking in power when compared to other sets, it lacks the typing to revenge kill a lot of sweepers, and its Stealth Rock weakness makes it a poor offensive pivot. Trick Room is an option to take advantage of V-create's Speed drops, but Victini is a bit fast for that.
Victini (SM competitive strategy): Thanks to an insanely high Base Power STAB attack in V-create, a great coverage option in Bolt Strike, and utility in U-turn and Trick, Victini can operate effectively in OU as either a Choice Scarf or Choice Band user. Victini's unique typing and good bulk gives it many opportunities to switch in against common threats in the OU tier such as Magearna and Tapu Lele and wreak havoc. Alternatively, Victini can use a Z-Celebrate set to boost all its stats once per match, becoming a terrifying late-game sweeper that can be difficult to revenge kill. Stored Power is very strong after a boost, and with a useful coverage option in Focus Blast, Victini has the ability to shred through common defensive cores as well as offensive teams. Its good bulk and somewhat useful resistances give Victini plenty of chances to setup. Unfortunately, Victini's average attacking stats forces it to heavily rely on Z-Celebrate's boosts in order to pose much of a threat when running this set. Furthermore, Victini's typing causes it to be weak to every form of entry hazard as well as common priority, such as Sucker Punch and Water Shuriken. U-turn allows Victini to gain momentum and deal chip damage to Fire-resistant switch-ins like Tyranitar and Mega Latias. Final Gambit lets Victini quickly remove or force damage on a problematic Pokemon. It's particularly useful for getting rid of checks like Mega Latias, Heatran, and Toxapex, which may open the door for a teammate that shares these checks with Victini. Trick cripples walls such as Toxapex. If the opponent has multiple defensive stops to Victini such as Tyranitar, Heatran, and Gliscor, the move ensures that Victini isn't limited to getting a single KO with Final Gambit. Bolt Strike can be run over Final Gambit to hit Water-types such as Toxapex and Tapu Fini. Maximum HP investment ensures that Final Gambit deals as much damage as possible when Victini is healthy. If Victini is running Bolt Strike, maximum Attack investment should be used instead to secure the 2HKO on Toxapex and Tapu Fini. Choice Scarf turns Victini into an effective revenge killer, letting it outspeed threats such as Mega Medicham, Mega Alakazam, and non-Choice Scarf Kartana. Think twice before using V-create if the opponent has an obvious switch-in to it, such as Heatran, Toxapex, or Tyranitar. U-turn is often a safer play, especially if Victini has another teammate that can deal with the threat that's in front of it. Consider using Final Gambit if doing so will significantly help out one of Victini's teammates by removing a shared check. For example, removing Mega Latias is highly beneficial for teammates like Kartana and Swords Dance Gliscor. Preserve Victini's health as much as possible before using Final Gambit; don't unnecessarily switch it into Stealth Rock or strong attacks. Final Gambit can be used early-game in order to immediately force a trade, which can be helpful against offensive teams. Trick should be used against defensive teams that rely on walls like Toxapex to check Victini. Pokemon that benefit from Victini's ability to lure in checks like Mega Latias, Heatran, and Toxapex and KO them with Final Gambit make for good teammates. These include Pokemon such as Kartana, Swords Dance Gliscor, and Mega Scizor. Victini is susceptible to all entry hazards and has a Stealth Rock weakness, so it really appreciates Defog support. Tapu Fini is an excellent Defogger to pair with Victini because it can reliably switch into entry hazard setters like Heatran, Ash-Greninja, and Toxapex that trouble it. Gliscor is another great Defogger that can deal with Heatran, Toxapex, Tyranitar, and most Ground-types. Tornadus-T and Zapdos are solid Defoggers that can switch into Ground-type attacks for Victini as well. Solid answers to Water-types, particularly Ash-Greninja, are needed. Kommo-o checks Ash-Greninja, Tyranitar, and Heatran for Victini and pressures defensive cores with its Z-Move and coverage options. Assault Vest Tangrowth checks Ash-Greninja and Ground-types like Landorus-T and Garchomp, and it can use Earthquake or Knock Off in order to weaken Heatran. Rotom-W deals with Ground-types like Landorus-T, Mega Swampert, and Hippowdon in addition to Heatran and brings Victini in against Grass-types with Volt Switch, making it an exemplary partner. Wallbreakers benefit from the U-turn support Victini provides and help to break through defensive cores. Mega Medicham and Hoopa-U are notable examples, since they threaten many of Victini's switch-ins including Heatran, Tyranitar, Toxapex, and Mega Latias. Bolt Strike is strong coverage, nailing Toxapex and other Water-types and significantly chunking Heatran. U-turn not only gives Victini a strong move to pivot with but also does substantial damage to Mega Latios and Tyranitar. Zen Headbutt is a secondary STAB attack that can be occasionally useful to ease prediction, such as against the core Toxapex + Landorus-T. Brick Break OHKOes Tyranitar one-on-one, preventing it from Pursuit trapping Victini, and 2HKOes bulkier Heatran variants that are only 3HKOed by Bolt Strike. Trick can cripple certain targets, but few Pokemon manage to wall Choice Band Victini anyway. Use Victini's good defensive typing to bring it in as often as possible, such as against Tapu Lele, Clefable, and Tapu Bulu or Power Whip from Ferrothorn, Giga Drain from Tangrowth, Leaf Blade and Sacred Sword from Kartana, and Fleur Cannon from Magearna. Play aggressively with Victini; good prediction skills are important to effectively wallbreak against common cores such as Landorus-T + Heatran. Be wary of using V-create against teams with Tyranitar or Weavile, as it leaves Victini very prone to being trapped by Pursuit. Celebrate works in conjunction with Normalium Z to give Victini a +1 boost in all of its stats except for accuracy and evasion, turning it into a lethal sweeper under the right conditions and making it tough to revenge kill thanks to the defensive boosts. Blue Flare is incompatible with Celebrate, which makes Searing Shot the best Fire-type STAB move for this set; it does good damage after a boost, though it's weak unboosted. STAB Stored Power gets boosted to 120-Base Power after Z-Celebrate is used. It's used over other Psychic-type moves like Psychic and Psyshock because it allows Victini to OHKO Toxapex, thus avoiding Haze from it, as well as Alolan Marowak and Tapu Koko. Focus Blast hits Heatran and Tyranitar super effectively, which otherwise wall this set. Z-Celebrate can only be used once, so ensure that Victini's checks and counters are worn down or eliminated before it attempts to sweep. Once Victini's set up, all it has to do is pick the right coverage move and start getting KOs. Victini can attempt to spread burns early-game in some matchups thanks to Searing Shot's high burn chance, though that's pretty much all it can do before setting up due to its poor coverage without Stored Power and lack of breaking power without a boost. If there's a Choice Scarf user on the opposing team like Garchomp or Keldeo, it should try to avoid taking too much damage while setting up in order to survive a Hydro Pump from Keldeo or an Earthquake from Garchomp. When facing stall, Victini can't do anything until Chansey is removed, so try to remove it either through trapping it or with a lure. While Unaware Clefable may seem like another roadblock for Victini, it can't wall Victini if it loses its Leftovers because Searing Shot's burns will slowly wear it down and put it in range of Victini's attacks. Victini is weak to Stealth Rock and doesn't like being poisoned by Toxic Spikes, so Defog users like Mew and Mega Scizor make for good teammates for an easier time sweeping. Bulky Water-types such as Mantine and Gastrodon need to be weakened for Victini to clean up more effectively, so teammates like Ash-Greninja and Heatran that can pressure them early-game are appreciated. Ash-Greninja can also set up Spikes for it. Spikes users like Ferrothorn and Greninja help Victini muscle through bulkier foes such as Mew thanks to the additional chip damage. Victini can't threaten Chansey even after a boost due to its sky-high Special Defense, which gives it a bad stall matchup as long as Chansey is alive. Therefore, teammates that can lure in or pressure Chansey like Tapu Koko and Tapu Lele can help Victini in this regard. Pursuit users like Tyranitar and Weavile can remove Mega Latias for Victini, which can be a pain to break through. They can also force mind games against Chansey and weaken it for Victini. Smeargle is an interesting partner, as it sets up Sticky Web for Victini, thus making it impossible to revenge kill after the Z-Celebrate boost. Victini has an expansive offensive movepool, featuring good options such as Glaciate, Blue Flare, Thunder, Energy Ball, Shadow Ball. Victini can use said movepool to function as either a mixed or special attacker with an Expert Belt or Choice Specs, though it usually breaks much more of the metagame when functioning as a physical wallbreaker. Trick Room is an option for taking advantage of V-create's Speed drops; however, Victini is often too fast to make use of Trick Room and is more effective as a moderately fast wallbreaker anyway.
Victini (SS competitive strategy): Victini's extremely strong V-create along with its wide variety of coverage moves to break through V-create switch-ins make it a decent wallbreaker in the tier. Bolt Strike and Glaciate lets it hit Slowking, Tapu Fini, Landorus-T, and Garchomp and give it unresisted coverage in conjunction with V-create. Victini's typing and decent bulk allow it to offensively check Tapu Lele, Scizor, Volcarona, and Calm Mind Clefable, and it offers utility as a pivot with U-turn. However, Victini is heavily reliant on V-create to properly wallbreak because running Heavy-Duty Boots sacrifices a power-boosting item, and the move's stat drops let foes easily revenge kill it. Victini needs good prediction to get the most out of it, and its Speed tier lets faster threat like Weavile, Dragapult, and Zeraora revenge kill it, though it is fast enough to dissuade other threats like Landorus-T and Urshifu-R. Bolt Strike hits Toxapex and Slowking hard, as well hitting Heatran for a decent amount. Glaciate hits Ground-types that can otherwise switch into it like Garchomp and Landorus-T. Encore can be used instead to take advantage of Pokemon like Clefable, Toxapex, and Landorus-T, locking them into a passive moves like recovery or entry hazard and giving Victini a free turn to attack. It also helps handle Calm Mind Clefable and Tapu Lele. Alternatively, Will-O-Wisp allows Victini to cripple Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Dragonite. Scorching Sands is yet another option used to nail Heatran, but Bolt Strike does a decent amount to Heatran already. U-turn gives Victini momentum and lets it pivot out against Heatran and Tyranitar, which are usually able to take on its other attacks. Jolly is the preferred nature instead of Hasty, since Glaciate's targets will still be 2HKOed even with the Special Attack drop. Victini can run a Choice Scarf set with Final Gambit to lure in the likes of Heatran, Toxapex, and Dragonite and remove them with ease. It can also run a Choice Band set; however, being locked into a move can make it vulnerable with the prevalence of Heatran and Ground-types in the tier, and entry hazard damage wears it down rather easily. Energy Ball with a Hasty nature can be used to threaten Gastrodon and Quagsire that may otherwise easily sponge the rest of Victini's moves. An alternative EV spread of 212 Atk / 44 Def / 252 Spe lets Victini survive a Knock Off from Jolly Weavile.
Victini (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Victini functions as a niche late-game cleaner and revenge killer, due to its ability to outspeed Pokemon such as Tapu Koko and Mega Lopunny as well as threaten important defensive pieces such as Ferrothorn and Gholdengo with V-create. U-turn is used to gain momentum on switch-ins such as Heatran, Alomomola, and Raging Bolt that would otherwise reliably answer it. Trick is used in order to cripple defensive switch-ins such as Alomomola, Toxapex, and Ting-Lu, allowing teammates to break through them more reliably. Bolt Strike is an option to hit Water-types such as Toxapex and Alomomola as well as Moltres and Mega Charizard Y, while Final Gambit allows Victini to trade for would-be answers such as Landorus-T and Garchomp. 252 HP EVs are only used on Final Gambit sets in order to maximise its damage against foes such as the aforementioned Landorus-T and Gliscor. Choice Scarf Victini fits predominantly on bulky offense and sun teams, where its ability to clean up late-game and pivot into breakers is appreciated. Victini finds itself vulnerable to defensive pieces such as Landorus-T and Ting-Lu, both of which can switch in on V-create and threaten Victini with Earthquake, meaning that Flying-type partners such as Gliscor, Tornadus-T, and Zapdos are appreciated. Dragonite can also switch into Victini comfortably and use it as setup fodder, meaning answers to it such as Clefable are appreciated. As well as this, due to Victini's lack of Heavy-Duty Boots, entry hazards such as Stealth Rocks and Spikes make it hard for Victini to come in and pivot, meaning hazard removal options such as Great Tusk, Defog Landorus-T, and Terapagos are appreciated, with the former two also threatening Heatran for it. In return, Victini can threaten Grass-types such as Ferrothorn and Serperior for them. Victini can often find itself struggling to break through bulky Water-types such as Toxapex and Alomomola, meaning Pokemon that threaten these such as Tapu Koko and Tapu Lele are appreciated, with Victini in return breaking through Steel-types such as Gholdengo, Ferrothorn, and Kingambit for them. Tapu Lele also provides an immunity to Kingambit's Sucker Punch and Urshifu-R's Aqua Jet, while Tapu Koko can pivot into Victini directly with U-turn. Victini also appreciates the sun support of Mega Charizard Y, as it boosts the power of its V-create to new heights, allowing it to OHKO Galarian Slowking and Zapdos after chip damage, with Victini in return being able to use U-turn to pivot into it against foes such as Alomomola and Landorus-T, giving it more opportunities to break. Victini solidifies itself as an effective pivot, having the ability to defensively check foes like Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant as well as force switches with its coverage options. Bolt Strike grants it the opportunity to hit Water-types like Toxapex, Slowbro, and Alomomola that would otherwise try to switch in on its V-create in addition to targeting Moltres and Mega Charizard Y. U-turn lets Victini pivot out against switch-ins such as Mega Latios and Ting-Lu. Encore discourages the use of status moves from slower foes such as Gliscor, Zapdos, and the aforementioned Toxapex. It also prevents Pokemon like Zamazenta from setting up on Victini for free. Toxic is another possible option that allows Victini to put checks like Landorus-T, Mega Latios, and Great Tusk on a timer. One last potential option is Glaciate, hitting Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Dragonite and preventing them from being reliable switch-ins; it also stops Victini from being complete setup fodder for the latter. Victini finds itself on a plethora of bulky offense and balance teams. These teams appreciate Victini's coverage options putting pressure on common defensive Pokemon like Ferrothorn, Alomomola, and Moltres, which many teams rely on to check offensive threats. Kingambit values Victini as a partner, as they overwhelm shared checks like Alomomola, Great Tusk, and Landorus-T. Additionally, Victini is a good check to Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant, and Kingambit answers foes such as Mega Tyranitar. Victini is vulnerable to faster threats such as Ogerpon-W and Choice Scarf Urshifu-R, so checks such as Raging Bolt and Mega Venusaur are appreciated. In return, Victini provides a switch-in against Fairy- and Psychic-type foes like Tapu Lele, which not many Pokemon can reliably switch into. If Victini is not running Glaciate, it is vulnerable to Dragon-types such as Garchomp and Dragonite, as they can use it as setup fodder; therefore, partners like Choice Scarf Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant are effective, both of which also beat Dark-types like Mega Tyranitar and Kingambit. They're also great speed control options that help assist Victini, as it is outsped by a plethora of foes, the most notable being Ogerpon-W and Mega Diancie. Tapu Koko is another ally that is able to outspeed the Pokemon that threaten Victini like Ogerpon-W and Choice Scarf Urshifu-R. It also provides a useful boost to Victini's Bolt Strike in Electric Terrain and forms a strong VoltTurn core with it that overwhelms defensive Pokemon like Galarian Slowking, Ferrothorn, and Heatran. Hisuian Samurott is also an effective partner, as it is able to set Spikes for Victini via Ceaseless Edge, which is beneficial because many of Victini's checks lack Heavy-Duty Boots like Ting-Lu, Garchomp, and Heatran. Z-Celebrate Victini acts as a niche setup sweeper, where its combination of Z-Celebrate and Stored Power can make it a threatening late-game cleaner. Z-Celebrate's omniboost makes Victini a potent sweeper due to its enhanced bulk and offenses making it difficult to revenge kill. When combined with Z-Celebrate, Stored Power becomes able to muscle through neutral targets such as Landorus-T and Alomomola while also breaking Toxapex, which would otherwise be able to shut down Victini with Haze. Focus Blast is used in order to hit Heatran, Mega Tyranitar, and Ting-Lu, all of which could otherwise comfortably switch in on Victini, with the latter being able to phase it out via Whirlwind, removing its boosts entirely. Z-Celebrate Victini fits exclusively on hyper offense, where its ability to clean late-game is appreciated. Victini can often find it hard to find setup opportunities against faster foes such as Ogerpon-W and Choice Scarf Urshifu-R, so teammates that can pressure these such as Raging Bolt and Booster Energy Iron Valiant are appreciated. In return, Victini can break through Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Melmetal for these. Victini can also often struggle to break through Pokemon that resist its STAB moves, such as Mega Latios and Slowbro, meaning Dark-types such as Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott are appreciated. In return, Victini can come in on Fighting- and Fairy-types such as Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant and find setup opportunities on them. Victini also appreciates entry hazard support from leads such as Glimmora, Landorus-T, and Mega Diancie in order to whittle down any of its answers, enabling it to clean late-game, while also denying opposing hazards, which is appreciated as Victini finds itself vulnerable to Stealth Rock. Dual screens support from setters like Tapu Koko is also appreciated in order to let it set up on Pokemon that would otherwise threaten it such as Non-Ghostium Z Gholdengo and Mega Diancie.
Scream Tail (SV competitive strategy): Scream Tail is great as both an offensive and utility Pokemon thanks to its typing, great Speed, and wonderful movepool. Calm Mind Scream Tail is a terrifying wallbreaker; it becomes very hard to KO after a few boosts, and thanks to Booster Energy giving it a free Speed boost, Scream Tail can outspeed faster threats like Kilowattrel and Choice Scarf Munkidori. Additionally, Scream Tail's great bulk and typing gives it the ability to handle powerful wallbreakers such as Flygon, Heracross, Kilowattrel, and Scyther. Its access to Stealth Rock makes it a solid entry hazard lead that can disrupt foes with Encore or Thunder Wave. However, Scream Tail's poor Special Attack makes it easy for special walls like Alolan Muk, Gastrodon, and Diancie to tank its attacks even after a Calm Mind boost. Scream Tail can also be forced to heal due to repeatedly switching in against moves that it resists from wallbreakers like Heracross, Infernape, and Scrafty. Boomburst is Scream Tail's most powerful attack, which after a Calm Mind boost 2HKOes foes like Alolan Ninetales and Munkidori. Fire Blast allows Scream Tail to hit Steel-types like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Registeel that would handle its Boomburst. Alternatively, Flamethrower can be used for its better accuracy, but a +1 boost misses out the ability to 2HKO Bronzong. Psychic Noise lets Scream Tail prevent healing attempts from Vaporeon and Gastrodon while hitting Chandelure neutrally, which it would be walled by otherwise, but Dazzling Gleam allows it to hit Dark-types like Scrafty. 216 Speed EVs allow Scream Tail to outpace Choice Scarf users like Flygon and Munkidori after activating its Booster Energy. Tera Normal boosts Boomburst, letting it 2HKO foes like Kilowattrel and Tornadus, and it gives Scream Tail a free turn to set up against or attack Ghost-types like Chandelure and Decidueye, blanking their Shadow Ball, Spirit Shackle, and Shadow Sneak. Tera Fire boosts Fire Blast and Flamethrower, allowing Scream Tail to better handle Steel-types such as Registeel, and the Fairy resistance it gives can help in Calm Mind wars against Sylveon and Florges. Scream Tail synergizes greatly with wallbreakers and setup sweepers like Flygon, Paldean Tauros-F, Swords Dance Scyther, and Bulk Up Tornadus, as they can handle the special walls like Gastrodon, Milotic, and Porygon2 that stump Scream Tail. In return, it handles the common physical walls that they struggle with like Amoonguss, Gligar, and Galarian Slowbro. Scream Tail appreciates entry hazard-setting leads like Eject Pack Flygon, Focus Sash Infernape, and Spikes Brambleghast, which let it pressure special tanks like Alolan Muk and Porygon2. Alolan Ninetales can set up Aurora Veil for Scream Tail, giving it more chances to boost and making Scream Tail more difficult to revenge kill. Pokemon like Diancie, Toxtricity, Porygon-Z, and Cinccino can help it wear down Steel-types like Copperajah and Registeel. Encore lets Scream Tail bother setup sweepers and entry hazard setters like the Paldean Tauros formes, Uxie, Gligar, and Diancie, while Thunder Wave allows Scream Tail to slow down faster Pokemon like Munkidori and Inteleon. Psychic Noise blocks healing attempts from Vaporeon and Gastrodon, but Dazzling Gleam ensures that it doesn't get easily walled by Dark-types like Incineroar and Scrafty. Leftovers provides Scream Tail a bit more recovery, whereas Heavy-Duty Boots allows it not to be worn down by hazards. The first EV spread allows Scream Tail to outpace Flygon, the Paldean Tauros formes, and Staraptor while still being bulky, but fully investing in Speed allows it to outspeed Pokemon like Infernape, Alolan Ninetales, and Scyther. Tera Steel gives Scream Tail a useful defensive typing, letting it better handle foes like Sylveon, Toxtricity, Munkidori, and Porygon-Z. Tera Poison maintains the useful Fighting-type resistance while giving it a useful immunity to any poison attempts from Galarian Slowbro, Alolan Muk, and Amoonguss. Alternatively, Tera Water lets Scream Tail better handle Water- and Fire-type attacks from Inteleon, Basculegion, and Chandelure while also giving it a very useful resistance to Ice-type attacks from Alolan Ninetales and Alolan Sandslash. Furthermore, it gives Scream Tail the ability to better handle Steel-types like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Registeel. Physical attackers like Basculegion-M, Choice Band Flygon, and Incineroar can put a lot of pressure on Scream Tail, so it best partners with physical walls such as Amoonguss, Avalugg, and Vaporeon to check them. Pokemon like Gligar, Copperajah, and Registeel appreciate Scream Tail's Wish giving them needed recovery. Fighting- and Fire-types like Toxicroak, Flamigo, and Chandelure are good partners for Scream Tail, as they can handle Steel-types such as Copperajah, Bronzong, and Duraludon. Leftovers Scream Tail can be pressured by entry hazards; thus, it also partners well with Pokemon such as Scyther, Avalugg, and Cinccino, which have hazard removal options. Scream Tail appreciates Dark-types like Incineroar, Overqwil, and Alolan Muk, as they can beat Ghost-types like Chandelure, Decidueye, and Brambleghast. In return, Scream Tail checks Fighting-types like Flamigo, Paldean Tauros-W, and Breloom. Steel- and Ice-types like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Avalugg enjoy Scream Tail switching in against Fighting-types such as Paldean Tauros-W and Infernape. Steel-types like Bronzong, Copperajah, and Duraludon can help Scream Tail handle Poison-types like Toxtricity, Galarian Slowbro, and Alolan Muk. Thunder Wave slows down faster threats like Inteleon and Tornadus. Encore gives Scream Tail the ability to cripple setup sweepers like Cinccino and Scyther, while Psychic Noise stops walls like Milotic and Porygon2 from healing and threatens Poison-types like Toxicroak and Amoonguss. Misty Explosion prevents entry hazard-removing Pokemon like Altaria, Cinncino, and Scyther from getting rid of its Stealth Rock while letting it bring in a teammate safely. Tera Ghost lets Scream Tail block Rapid Spin attempts from Avalugg and Brambleghast. Lead Scream Tail fits perfectly on hyper offense teams, so setup sweepers like Scyther, Flygon, and Toxtricity are great teammates, as they appreciate its Stealth Rock letting them pressure defensive tanks like Avalugg, Gligar, and Porygon2 more effectively. Scream Tail's entry hazards can always be removed by Defog Scyther or Rapid Spin users like Brambleghast and Tentacruel; thus, Defog deterrents and spinblockers like Kilowattrel, Tornadus, Chandelure, and Decidueye are crucial to handle them. Scream Tail often uses Misty Explosion in front of foes like Registeel and Bronzong, so it appreciates teammates like Toxicroak, Flygon, and Chandelure that can take advantage of Steel-types. Scream Tail can use Disable on both lead and Wish sets, letting it disrupt many setup sweepers and entry hazard leads like Incineroar, Swampert, and Gastrodon. Perish Song lets it pressure walls and setup sweepers like Gastrodon, Scyther, and Porygon-Z that would take advantage of lead Scream Tail while it helps its teammates. Roar can be used on Wish sets to phaze setup sweepers like Flygon, Paldean Tauros-F, and Porygon-Z. Psyshock lets Scream Tail better handle special walls like Porygon2 and Gastrodon, while Psychic can be used for its raw power. Tera Dragon can be used to handle Water- and Fire-type attacks from Inteleon, Basculegion-M, and Chandelure. Scream Tail can run a Bulk Up set with Bulk Up / Psychic Fangs / Play Rough / Drain Punch, enabling it to gain the upper hand against its checks like Porygon2 and Gastrodon, but its poor Attack makes the set very niche.
Tornadus (XY competitive strategy): Tornadus has a nice base 111 Speed, outspeeding Pokemon that sit at the base 110 Speed tier, such as Froslass. Tornadus also has two amazing abilities: Defiant to deter Defoggers and Prankster to give priority to its status moves. Its movepool complements its abilities, as it has access to excellent support moves such as Taunt, Tailwind, and Rain Dance alongside a great offensive movepool including Acrobatics, Hurricane, Knock Off, Superpower, and Focus Blast. However, Tornadus has to be very careful due to its below average 79 / 70 / 80 bulk. Its Stealth Rock weakness also makes it difficult to bring onto the field safely. Tornadus is also outsped by a lot of Pokemon in UU, such as Mega Beedrill and Crobat, who can proceed to U-turn out, or Mega Aerodactyl, who OHKOes it with a super effective STAB attack. Additionally, Tornadus's most powerful moves in Hurricane and Focus Blast suffer from low accuracy, making it somewhat unreliable compared to other special attackers. Hurricane is the STAB move of choice, hitting very hard coming off Tornadus's base 125 Special Attack stat and having great neutral coverage against most of the tier. Focus Blast hits many Steel-types, such as Mega Aggron and Empoleon, as well as most special walls, including Snorlax, Umbreon, and Porygon2. Heat Wave hits Doublade, Forretress, and Bronzong, but makes Tornadus less effective against the aforementioned special walls. Grass Knot is a reliable move to 2HKO most Water-types. Tailwind can be used to support slower teammates and check faster foes. Alternatively, Taunt can be used to prevent Pokemon like Florges, Sableye, and Suicune from recovering after taking Tornadus's attacks. Air Slash can be used if Hurricane's accuracy is a problem, but its significantly lower base power makes it hard for Tornadus to effectively wear down defensive Pokemon. Iron Tail is an option to 2HKO Florges and nail Mega Aerodactyl on the switch. Maximum Special Attack and Speed EVs are used to allow Tornadus to hit as hard and as fast as it can. A Life Orb is used to further bolster Tornadus's power. A Timid nature is needed to outspeed threats such as Infernape and Cobalion. Prankster allows Tornadus to set up Tailwind against Pokemon such as Mega Aerodactyl and Mega Swampert before it is KOed; if Tornadus chooses to run Taunt instead, Prankster is important to prevent Sableye from using Recover. This set uses Tornadus's impressive Special Attack in combination with its powerful moves to punch huge holes in teams while also potentially supporting its team with Tailwind. Against defensive teams, Tornadus can come in early-game and start to fire off attacks, easily wearing down special walls with its raw power, coverage, and Taunt. Against offensive teams, Tornadus can set up Tailwind mid- to late-game to allow its teammates to clean up. Life Orb Tornadus works best on offensive teams that appreciate its ability to break down Pokemon such as Snorlax and Umbreon. Mega Sceptile can take advantage of these weakened Pokemon and also can capitalize on Florges and Mega Aerodactyl that are lured with Tornadus's Iron Tail. Choice Scarf Hydreigon also appreciates these foes being weakened or KOed. Entry hazard support is key; offensive Stealth Rock users such as Aerodactyl and Krookodile fit well on teams with Tornadus. With Tailwind support, slower powerhouses become extremely dangerous; examples of these include Nidoqueen, Mega Blastoise, Mamoswine, Heracross, and Tyrantrum. Prankster allows Tornadus to have a priority setup move in Bulk Up, which boosts its Attack and Defense stats. Acrobatics is a STAB move that hits very hard with no item. Rest is a great recovery move that gains +1 priority thanks to Prankster, ridding Tornadus of status while fully restoring its health. The last slot is dependent on whether you want coverage or reliability while asleep. Knock Off allows Tornadus to hit a ton of Pokemon that resist Acrobatics while also making them lose their item. Sleep Talk not only allows Tornadus to not only Rest multiple times, but also grants it a priority Acrobatics. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs allow Tornadus to hit as hard and as fast as possible. Chesto Berry guarantees a one-time wake-up from Rest, however running no item is also perfectly viable as it allows Tornadus's Acrobatics to hit harder initially. A Jolly nature is necessary to outspeed base 110 Speed Pokemon such as Froslass and other Pokemon below that Speed tier, such as Infernape and Mienshao. This set is used best as a late-game cleaner or win condition once walls are broken down and Steel-, Electric-, and Rock-types are out of the way. This set also capitalizes on Tornadus's amazing ability in Prankster, which gives it access to priority recovery, priority setup, and even priority attacking via Sleep Talk. Spikes support is necessary, as Steel-types, which resist Tornadus's STAB moves, are usually grounded and resist Stealth Rock. Froslass is a good partner, as it can easily spinblock while setting Spikes up. Another good partner is Custap Berry lead Forretress, as it can not only set up Spikes, but can also set up Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes, pressuring the opponent to find an answer to Tornadus quickly. Wallbreakers, such as Choice Band Heracross, can provide excellent support as they can easily wear down the walls that can continuously annoy Tornadus, such as Mega Aggron. Entry hazard clearing in the form of Defog or Rapid Spin is greatly appreciated, as Tornadus is weak to Stealth Rock, so it has a limited number of switches. Mega Blastoise is a great partner, as it can spin away entry hazards while also functioning as a wallbreaker. Acrobatics is a STAB move and hits hard because Tornadus is carrying no item. Knock Off removes the foe's item while also hitting bulky Psychic-types that might want to switch into Tornadus. Superpower is used to get past the Steel-types that might try to switch into Acrobatics. U-turn allows Tornadus to keep up momentum while wearing down the opponent's team. Iron Tail hits Mega Aerodactyl and Florges, two Pokemon that commonly switch into Tornadus. No item is used so that Acrobatics hits as hard as it can, while Defiant is used to not only boost Tornadus's Attack stat by two stages but also punish Defog users. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs are used so Tornadus can hit as hard and as fast as it can. A Jolly nature is necessary, as an Adamant Tornadus is outsped by common Pokemon such as Mienshao and Infernape. While this set doesn't have the raw power of the specially attacking variant, Pokemon such as Florges and Blissey that expect to tank Hurricanes are instead 2HKOed by Acrobatics. Pokemon such as Cresselia can be effectively pressured with the combination of Knock Off and Acrobatics. Tornadus's decent coverage means that it can easily weaken or KO common Flying resistances such as Empoleon. Tornadus appreciates U-turn and Volt Switch support, as otherwise it would be difficult to get onto the field. Heliolisk and Mega Beedrill are partners that can gather momentum while chipping away at Tornadus's checks. This set also likes wallbreakers, as it is a nice late-game cleaner against balanced teams. Pokemon such as Life Orb Kyurem and Choice Specs Chandelure are great partners, as they wear down the bulky Steel-types that tend to wall Tornadus. This set loves entry hazards being off the field, as it has no recovery and is worn down very easily by Stealth Rock. Forretress and Empoleon make for great partners, as both can easily get rid of entry hazards while setting hazards of their own. Thanks to Tornadus's Prankster ability, it is able to set up Rain Dance multiple times throughout the match, giving rain teams a reliable setter. Taunt allows Tornadus to beat out other leads while it sets up rain or Tailwind. Hurricane is Tornadus's most powerful attack and heavily benefits from its accuracy boost in the rain. Focus Blast provides excellent coverage alongside Hurricane. U-turn can be used instead to gain momentum for its team and allow a rain sweeper to start abusing rain turns. This set aims to help the team through Tornadus's support moves and ability. Rain Dance and Taunt gain priority thanks to Prankster, letting Tornadus get off a move before getting KOed by a faster threat. Damp Rock is used to provide additional turns of rain to its teammates. Life Orb can be used instead to power up Tornadus's attacks, but Tornadus would usually rather focus on supporting its teammates by providing extra rain turns. Maximum Special Attack and Speed EVs are used, outspeeding Pokemon such as Froslass and Infernape. A Timid nature is preferred so that Tornadus can outspeed positive-natured base 110 Speed Pokemon such as Froslass and anything slower. With Rain Dance, Tornadus is a staple on any rain team, as it has an abusable STAB move that gains 100% accuracy under the rain and Prankster to make sure rain can be set up consistently. Try to bring in Tornadus on a resisted hit or after a teammate has fainted, as it is pretty frail and does not like taking hits. With the strongest Hurricane in the tier, Tornadus can utilize Choice Specs to further increase its power and OHKO several bulky offensive threats such as Nidoqueen. Choice Scarf is an option, but Prankster Tailwind support with Life Orb is generally sufficient.
Tornadus (SM competitive strategy): Tornadus is a versatile offensive Pokemon that can function as a wallbreaker with its solid power and coverage or as a utility pivot with U-turn and Prankster status moves like Defog and Tailwind. Its high Special Attack and high Speed allow it to outspeed several prominent threats in UU, including Gengar, Celebi, and Infernape, and overpower them with STAB Hurricane. It also can utilize Supersonic Skystrike to even break past bulkier offensive threats like Latias and Terrakion after minor chip damage. This middle ground of power and Speed allows it to distinguish itself from other Flying-type choices. Its large range of coverage options also benefits it, allowing it to utilize moves like Superpower and Heat Wave to greatly limit its switch-ins. Unfortunately, Tornadus provides very little defensive utility to teams due to its Stealth Rock weakness, lack of recovery, mediocre defenses, and lack of useful resistances. Because of this, it faces competition from other offensive Flying-types such as Moltres, Mega Pidgeot, and Togekiss, which have better defensive typings, better bulk, and access to reliable recovery. Its reliance on Hurricane as its STAB attack can be disadvantageous due to the move's poor accuracy. Lastly, due to Tornadus's poor defenses and typing, it struggles to do anything of worth to most priority users like Mamoswine and Scizor, as they can power through it easily after minor chip damage. Hurricane is a powerful STAB attack that has good neutral coverage and allows Tornadus to revenge kill several slower threats, like Infernape, Celebi, and Chandelure. Heat Wave covers some Steel-types that could otherwise come in on Hurricane, such as Klefki, Mega Steelix, and Mega Aggron. It also more reliably KOes Scizor and Cobalion. Superpower hits most other conventional Flying-type switch-ins, dealing heavy damage to Empoleon and Stakataka. It also heavily damages Blissey and Snorlax, two Pokemon that could otherwise tank hits from Tornadus, on the switch. Grass Knot is an option for OHKOing Terrakion and Swampert, more heavily and reliably damaging Hippowdon than Hurricane, and taking out Rhyperior, which could otherwise tank the rest of Tornadus's attacks. It also reliably powers through Swampert and Seismitoad in one hit. Defog allows Tornadus to exploit the switches it forces to remove entry hazards from the field. Tailwind is an option if entry hazard removal is being provided by another teammate, allowing Tornadus to support its teammates before fainting by briefly doubling their Speed. A Hasty nature allows Tornadus to increase its Speed while refraining from decreasing Superpower's damage output. Life Orb puts considerable power behind Tornadus's attacks, allowing it to apply heavy offensive pressure to the majority of the metagame and achieve a potentially crucial guaranteed OHKO on Terrakion with Grass Knot. Defiant can be run to boost Superpower's damage output by switching in on the Defog users Tornadus beats to boost its Attack. However, Prankster can be used if running Defog or Tailwind to give them priority. This set is aimed to function as more of a wallbreaker on offensive teams, due to Tornadus's great coverage and attacking stats allowing it to threaten a large portion of the metagame. Because of its lacking defensive utility, Tornadus should be brought into play via pivot support or after a teammate has fainted so it doesn't compromise its already limited longevity. Hurricane should be spammed against teams due to its impressive general coverage, tough Tornadus should try predicting a switch-in to the attack, such as Klefki or Blissey, if they're on the opposing team and healthy and nailing them with super effective coverage on the switch. Defog is best to use on forced switches when entry hazards are on Tornadus's side of the field. Thanks to its ability to force out several Stealth Rock setters like Hippowdon and Swampert, it can also often successfully attempt to switch in on them as they set Stealth Rock. Defog can also be used when Tornadus is weakened in a last-ditch effort to keep entry hazards off its side of the field. Tailwind should be used when Tornadus is weakened into range of a KO from the next attack to hit it, as this can generate momentum for its teammates while also providing them with a boost in Speed. Tornadus's Speed tier should be utilized to revenge kill various threats, such as Terrakion, Cobalion, and Hydreigon, once they've been weakened a bit. This set works best on offensive teams that appreciate Tornadus's ability to break past several defensive foes while weakening opposing offensive builds. Setup sweepers like Latias, Mega Altaria, and Lucario appreciate Tornadus's ability to muscle past opposing teams for them to clean up late-game. Powerful offensive threats like Mamoswine, Primarina, and Nidoking appreciate Tornadus's Tailwind support, as their offensive presences will become even harder to combat without opposing foes capable of outrunning them. Tornadus often favors pivoting support from the likes of Hydreigon, Scizor, and Rotom-H due to its poor typing and frailty preventing it from getting in easily. Entry hazard removal from a teammate like Tsareena, Starmie, or Hydreigon is also important to support Tornadus with if it isn't running Defog itself, due to its Stealth Rock weakness. Electric-type checks, like Hydreigon and Mega Sceptile, can pivot in on the likes of Rotom-H and Mega Manectric, which can hit Tornadus super effectively while tanking a hit or two. Hurricane is a fairly powerful STAB attack that offers good neutral coverage. It can also be useful for revenge killing some of the tier's several Fighting-types, such as Infernape and Heracross. When Flyinium Z is activated, it turns into Supersonic Skystrike, which patches up Hurricane's imperfect accuracy while powering through bulkier foes like Swampert, Hippowdon, and Togekiss after Stealth Rock damage. U-turn pivots Tornadus out of undesirable situations, such as a predicted switch into a foe that checks it, such as Mega Aggron. Superpower deals heavy damage to Blissey, a common switch-in to the majority of special attackers, while also dealing adequate damage to Flying-type switch-ins, such as Nihilego, Stakataka, and Empoleon. Heat Wave is an option over Superpower for punishing Steel-type switch-ins like Bronzong, Mega Aggron, and Klefki, though being unable to power through Blissey, Stakataka, or Empoleon as reliably is a notable drawback. Defog is boosted by Prankster and allows Tornadus to remove all entry hazards on the field. It can both be used as Tornadus forces switches and, thanks to Prankster, in a last-ditch effort when it's weakened. If entry hazard removal is not needed or is being provided by another teammate, Tailwind is an option for allowing Tornadus to double the Speed of its teammates before fainting. A Hasty nature are preferred for preventing Superpower's damage output from being decreased while keeping Tornadus's decent natural Special Defense intact. However, if Superpower is not being run, a Timid nature is preferred to not unnecessarily lower Tornadus's already poor Defense stat. Flyinium Z grants access to Supersonic Skystrike, which is useful for powering through bulkier foes or guaranteeing a perfectly accurate Flying-type attack. Prankster gives Tornadus's status attacks priority, allowing it to almost always move first when using Defog or Tailwind. Prankster also allows it to move before priority users like Scizor, Crawdaunt, and Mamoswine in last-ditch efforts. This set's main goal is to act as an offensive pivot, meaning Tornadus will often be brought into play either to weaken the opposing team with its attacks or to use Defog before generating momentum with U-turn. Due to its poor defensive utility, Tornadus is best to bring into play through the support of a pivot or after a teammate has fainted. It can come in on predicted Ground-type attacks from the likes of Gligar and Hippowdon, however. When Tornadus is weakened and entry hazards are on its side of the field, it should attempt using Defog as a last-ditch effort to remove them before fainting. If Tailwind is being run, it should be used late-game to allow a teammate to clean up with an enhanced Speed tier. It's also best used when Tornadus is weakened, as it will give a teammate a free switch into play upon Tornadus fainting after using the move. U-turn should be used to pivot out of Pokemon that Tornadus won't be able to muscle past before losing to, such as Mega Aggron and Nihilego. Due to its nature as an offensive pivot, this set fits best on teams that are very offensively inclined more often than not. Pokemon that enjoy the removal or weakening of Grass-types like Zeraora and Suicune appreciate Tornadus as a partner thanks to its ability to apply pressure to the likes of Amoonguss and Celebi. Frailer offensive Pokemon, such as Infernape, Starmie, and Nidoking, like Tornadus's ability to safely bring them into play with U-turn. Ground-types such as Gligar and Krookodile make good partners thanks to their ability to check most Rock- and Electric-types for Tornadus. If Tornadus is running Tailwind, powerful offensive forces like Terrakion, Heracross, and Volcanion will appreciate having their Speed increased thanks to it. Tornadus's frailty and odd defensive typing mean oftentimes it will require the support of a pivot to get into play, making Pokemon like Scizor, Mega Manectric, and Rotom-H good options as teammates. It also often enjoys Pokemon capable of weakening Steel-types for it, such as Heracross, Mega Houndoom, and Infernape, as teammates. Entry hazard control from the likes of Latias, Starmie, and Hydreigon can allow Tornadus to forgo running Defog for Tailwind while also alleviating its Stealth Rock weakness. Tornadus's good Attack and physical coverage options can allow it to viably run Defiant-based or Bulk Up sets that utilize Acrobatics as its Flying-type STAB move, though these are often more situational than mixed wallbreaking and pivoting sets due to its worse overall physical coverage and its frailty preventing it from finding too many setup opportunities. It would also be unable to run an item due to its reliance on Acrobatics as its STAB attack. Full-on special attacking sets are also options due to Tornadus's equally diverse special movepool, though it still struggles to break past the metagame as easily as with its mixed sets. Knock Off can be run for its ability to burden switch-ins with the removal of their items, providing more overall utility to Tornadus's team. However, it is often too hard to find room for.
Tornadus (SS competitive strategy): Tornadus is a niche offensive pivot able to threaten a wide variety of Pokemon with its strong Acrobatics and coverage moves in Knock Off and Heat Wave. It outspeeds common Pokemon like Keldeo, Zarude, and Cobalion, and it can pivot out on them effectively or inconvenience switch-ins like Salamence and Rotom-W with Knock Off. With Defiant, it can punish Defog attempts from the likes of Salamence and Mandibuzz, as well as Intimidate from the former, exerting offensive pressure with ease and finding a strong place on entry hazard-stacking teams. Choice Specs Tornadus is also an incredibly dangerous wallbreaker on rain teams, getting a near-guaranteed teamslot on them with its 100% accurate Hurricane, which blows past most walls. Neither Tornadus set can afford to run Heavy-Duty Boots, however, meaning that it requires solid entry hazard removal to function decently. The physical set also struggles to break through Pokemon like Celesteela and Rotom-W early-game, meaning Tornadus's wallbreaking can be heavily limited, as it struggles to freely use Acrobatics on top of struggling to switch in due to its frailty. Tornadus's extreme frailty means that it is often forced out by faster threats like Azelf and Zygarde-10%, priority users like Scizor and Mamoswine, and bulky foes like Slowking and Celesteela that can take a hit and do massive damage in return. Acrobatics becomes very powerful without an item, hitting Pokemon like Amoonguss, Keldeo, and Conkeldurr for huge damage. It also provides solid neutral coverage against defensive Pokemon like Salamence, Slowking, and Hatterene, with the former being heavily threatened due to Intimidate activating Defiant. U-turn lets Tornadus pivot out from unfavorable matchups like Rotom-W and Nihilego, bringing in wallbreakers or defensive checks to take advantage of them. It also wears down the aforementioned Pokemon and the likes of Excadrill and Celesteela, letting Tornadus pick them off later. Knock Off is crucial in making steady progress against Pokemon like Rotom-H, Primarina, and Nihilego, which rely on their items to maintain longevity, as well as removing Rocky Helmet from users like Hippowdon and Cobalion, preventing them from wearing down Tornadus as easily. Heat Wave allows Tornadus to dispatch the likes of Excadrill, Scizor, Cobalion, and Skarmory, which would otherwise check it well. Defiant is the preferred ability, as it allows Tornadus to heavily threaten Defoggers like Salamence and Mandibuzz, as well as punishing the former's Intimidate. This dissuades the use of Defog or the latter coming in against it. A Naive nature over Jolly keeps Heat Wave strong enough against threats like Excadrill. Also, Tornadus's bulk is poor enough that reducing it doesn't directly affect how it plays. Tornadus fits well on bulky offense and entry hazard-stacking teams in need of a fast, threatening pivot that can effectively deny entry hazard removal, as well as exerting the pressure needed to bring in wallbreakers safely. Consistent entry hazard removers like Rotom-W and Excadrill are greatly appreciated, as Tornadus needs Stealth Rock off the field. Late-game cleaners like Scizor and Nihilego can break through foes like Rotom-W, Slowking, and Hippowdon after Tornadus has sufficiently weakened them. Both also benefit from Tornadus baiting in the likes of Scizor, Excadrill, and Celesteela and weakening them via Heat Wave. Wallbreakers like Keldeo, Hydreigon, and Zygarde-10% can pressure the opposing team incredibly well; all of them also appreciate Tornadus threatening Tangrowth and Zarude, love Tornadus bringing them in safely via U-turn against Rotom-W and Celesteela, and appreciate its Knock Off support against foes like Tangrowth, Salamence, and Primarina. Rotom-W forms a potent VoltTurn core with Tornadus, as it pivots out on Pokemon like Zarude, Tangrowth, Amoonguss, and Chansey, all of which Tornadus can threaten or cripple with Knock Off. Zarude is another dangerous, complementary pivot and can check Nihilego, Rotom-W, and Hippowdon for Tornadus. Entry hazard setters like Cobalion, Nihilego, and Skarmory are often too good to pass up, since Tornadus often removes Heavy-Duty Boots from opposing Pokemon like Salamence, Rotom-H, and Slowking, letting hazards and its U-turn rack up chip damage. Tornadus is also amazing at dissuading Defog attempts. Cobalion is able to check Scizor for Tornadus, and Nihilego can further pressure Celesteela and check Thundurus-T and Rotom-H. Skarmory is notable in that it provides Spikes, which bolsters Tornadus's damage output significantly. It can also pivot in on Mamoswine, which otherwise revenge kills Tornadus with ease. Defensive Pokemon like Tangrowth, Primarina, and Amoonguss can switch in on other common revenge killers like Raikou, Noivern, Choice Scarf Hydreigon, and Zygarde-10%. Under rain, Hurricane becomes an immensely difficult move to switch into, swiftly 2HKOing common Pokemon like Slowking, Hippowdon, and Primarina with ease when backed by Choice Specs. Knock Off cripples switch-ins such as Chansey, Celesteela, and Nihilego, though it is undesirable to lock into because of how weak it is. U-turn allows Tornadus to pivot against switch-ins like Rotom-W, Celesteela, and Chansey. Focus Blast nails Flying-resists such as Rotom-W and Nihilego. It can even 2HKO Chansey if Eviolite is removed. Weather Ball is an option for super effective damage on Rotom-H and Nihilego in the rain. Choice Specs is required to obtain the aforementioned 2HKOes and maximizes Tornadus's wallbreaking potential. Choice Specs Tornadus primarily excels on rain teams. As such, Politoed is a mandatory teammate, being able to set rain and potentially punish Pokemon such as Rotom-W with a Scald burn. Secondary benefactors of rain are important in helping Tornadus wallbreak. Keldeo and Kingdra are excellent at overwhelming defensive cores with their overwhelming power and scaring out foes such as Nihilego and Rotom-H, with the latter being able to keep faster threats to Tornadus such as Zygarde-10%, Azelf, and Choice Scarf Hydreigon in line thanks to Swift Swim. Azumarill and Gyarados are able to break past specially defensive Pokemon like Chansey and Celesteela and enjoy Tornadus wiping out Grass-types like Tangrowth and Zarude. They also work with Tornadus to overwhelm Rotom-W. Excadrill provides entry hazard support and removal, being able to provide Stealth Rock to enhance Tornadus's wallbreaking while keeping it from getting worn down by Stealth Rock with Rapid Spin. Excadrill also checks Nihilego, Rotom-W, and Chansey for Tornadus. Amoonguss can provide defensive support to the rain team, checking foes that can take a hit like Primarina as well as faster checks to Tornadus like Raikou. On rain and non-rain teams, Tornadus can use a Nasty Plot set featuring Hurricane, Focus Blast, and Heat Wave or Weather Ball depending on the team to act as a dangerous setup sweeper with powerful attacks. However, Tornadus's fraility means it relies on setting up Nasty Plot against forced switches, making the immediate power of the Choice Specs set preferred on rain teams. Outside of rain teams, Tornadus can be rather inconsistent relying on Hurricane and Focus Blast as its primary attacks, making other special attackers like Azelf more appealing. Tornadus can use utility moves like Defog and Taunt with Prankster to help its teammates, but it has very little bulk and longevity to consistently pull off these moves.
Tornadus (SV competitive strategy): Tornadus's high-Base Power STAB and coverage moves, which are both further bolstered by its gargantuan offenses, and access to amazing utility options like Knock Off and Taunt make it a versatile threat in NU. Its Speed is also enormous, letting it blow past common fast Pokemon like Alolan Ninetales, Munkidori, and Paldean Tauros-W. On top of that, it has access to two amazing abilities that allow it to either be more supportive by getting off a fast Taunt and setting up Rain Dance freely with Prankster or offensive by letting it take advantage of common stat-dropping moves and abilities like Altaria's Defog, Brambleghast's Strength Sap, and both Paldean Tauros-W's and Incineroar's Intimidate. While some Tornadus sets run Heavy-Duty Boots, a fair amount don't, since other items can provide more support at times. Tornadus's weakness to Stealth Rock is further exacerbated on non-Heavy-Duty Boots sets by how much it loves to repeatedly come in, though. As a trade-off for its great offensive prowess, Tornadus has low bulk, which really starts to show when combined with its Stealth Rock weakness, and because of it, Tornadus's useful resistances and immunities are rendered moot, meaning it can be overpowered by Flamigo's Close Combat or KOed by a secondary STAB move like Flygon's Outrage. Tornadus also has to deal with either using unreliable moves like Hurricane and Bleakwind Storm or dealing with adverse contact effects such as paralysis from Bellibolt's Static. Not only that, but Amoonguss, Galarian Slowbro, and Bellibolt often carry Rocky Helmet, worsening Tornadus's situation. Bleakwind Storm is preferred due to its higher accuracy; however, Hurricane is a stronger STAB move to fire off. Knock Off cripples common switch-ins like Bronzong, Brambleghast, and Diancie. Heat Wave lets Tornadus nail Steel-types like Copperajah, Bronzong, and Registeel, while Grass Knot allows Tornadus to hit Ground- and Water-types like Gastrodon and Milotic. On the other hand, Taunt lets Tornadus stop walls like Bronzong, Gligar, and Gastrodon from setting up, getting their entry hazards up, or healing. An alternative EV spread of 116 HP / 140 SpA / 252 Spe can be used to survive common Choice Scarf users' attacks like Chandelure's Overheat and Hisuian Typhlosion's Eruption. Tera Steel allows Tornadus to tank a variety of hits like Cinccino's Tail Slap, Munkidori's Sludge Wave, and Sylveon's Hyper Voice. Alternatively, Tera Ground lets Tornadus take an Electric- or Rock-type attack from Kilowattrel and Diancie. Tornadus excels at firing off Knock Off and pivoting out, so entry hazard setters like Gastrodon, Bronzong, Orthworm, and Diancie can help capitalize on this trait. Tornadus can take one or two Fighting-type attacks, but it can't switch in consistently. Because of this, Fighting-resistant partners like Galarian Slowbro, Scream Tail, and Sylveon pair well with it. Pivots like Inteleon, Milotic, and Flygon enjoy Tornadus's presence, as it can easily dismantle common Grass-type switch-ins like Decidueye, Amoonguss, and Breloom. Ground- and Steel-types such as Gligar, Gastrodon, Bronzong, and Orthworm can help take on Electric- and Rock-types like Kilowattrel and Diancie that threaten Tornadus. As Tornadus typically lures in Rock-, Electric-, and Steel-types like Diancie, Bellibolt, and Registeel, wallbreakers like Basculegion-M, Choice Band Flygon, Guts Heracross, and Swords Dance Incineroar that capitalize on these Pokemon as entry points synergize extremely well; on top of that, they can also get rid of any neutral special walls trying to check Tornadus like Alolan Muk, Milotic, and Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro. U-turn allows Tornadus to bring in a rain sweeper, and it can help create mind games with opposing leads like Galvantula and Cinccino; however, Taunt stops setup sweepers and entry hazard setters from taking advantage of Tornadus. Under rain, Weather Ball is a powerful move that hits Flying-resistant Pokemon like Diancie super effectively while providing strong neutral coverage for others like Copperajah, but Knock Off allows Tornadus to provide more utility, removing important items like Leftovers and Heavy-Duty Boots while hitting Bronzong and Wind Rider Brambleghast super effectively. Tera Steel provides a strong defensive typing that can let Tornadus have an easier time both setting up rain and pivoting. On the other hand, Tera Ground can turn the tables against Electric- and Rock-types like Kilowattrel and Diancie, which would threaten Tornadus otherwise. Hammer Arm is the preferred option to take out Steel-types like Copperajah, Registeel, and Tera Steel Sylveon due to its high Base Power, but because of how it drops Tornadus's Speed, Brick Break can be used for a less punishing but weaker alternative. Notably, at +1, Tornadus's Hammer Arm OHKOes Copperajah after one layer of Spikes and 2HKOes both Registeel and Orthworm. Tera Blast Ground gives Tornadus a more reliable way to take out the aforementioned Steel-types, barring Orthworm, along with Rock-types like Diancie. Tera Ground also allows Tornadus to surprise and take hits from Kilowattrel and Diancie. Alternatively, Knock Off can be used so that Tornadus neither has to Terastallize nor drop its Speed if it wishes to hit or take out Steel-types on low health, and it gives Tornadus a way to easily deal with Bronzong. Sitrus Berry provides some recovery to Tornadus and, when consumed, allows Acrobatics to be at full power. However, no item can be run to automatically have Tornadus at its fullest potential. Defiant lets Tornadus take advantage of common stat-dropping abilities and moves like Overqwil's and Incineroar's Intimidate as well as Vileplume's Strength Sap. Tera Steel can be run to gift Tornadus with a typing that better handles common special attackers like Munkidori, Dragalge, and Sylveon that could easily break through it. Since Defiant is Bulk Up Tornadus's biggest draw, leads like Galvantula, Brambleghast, and Froslass that set entry hazards pair naturally, as they help pressure the opponent's team to use Defog. Ghost-types like Hisuian Typhlosion, Chandelure, and Decidueye make for good partners, as they can create a hazard removal-punishing duo because any of them can spinblock, and Tornadus can punish Defoggers. Tornadus can have issues with KOing Steel-types like Registeel, Bronzong, and Orthworm, meaning teammates like Munkidori, Diancie, Cinccino, and Minior have great synergy, since they can work alongside Tornadus to overwhelm these shared checks. Cinccino is especially good thanks to its Tidy Up clearing Stealth Rock for Tornadus. Fighting- and Ground-types such as Breloom, Toxicroak, Torterra, Paldean Tauros-W, and Flygon work well to take out the aforementioned Steel-types as well as Rock-types like Diancie. The former three can also help take care of pesky defensive Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Swampert. Bulk Up Tornadus struggles with OHKOing Alolan Ninetales and breaking through Ice-types like Avalugg, meaning teammates that can switch in and beat them such as Chandelure and Diancie are greatly appreciated. Hurricane provides Tornadus with more power, but Bleakwind Storm has higher accuracy. Focus Blast allows Tornadus to better hit Rock-types like Diancie as well as Dark-types like Incineroar, but Heat Wave gives it a more reliable way of taking out Steel-types such as Copperajah and Registeel. Dark Pulse lets Tornadus hit Wind Rider Brambleghast and the Fighting-neutral Bronzong super effectively, which could potentially wall Tornadus otherwise. Alternatively, Tera Blast Steel can be run to super effectively hit Diancie, which would wall Tornadus pretty well otherwise, as well as letting Tornadus KO Brambleghast. Tera Steel also means Tornadus can take attacks like Inteleon's Ice Beam, Cinccino's Tail Slap, and Munkidori's Psychic, giving it an easier time setting up and firing off attacks. Tera Ground, on the other hand, allows Tornadus to better take on Rock- and Electric-types like Diancie and Kilowattrel. Tera Dark can also potentially be used, as it boosts Dark Pulse and allows Tornadus to have an easier time breaking through Uxie and Bronzong. Tornadus enjoys partners like Diancie, Munkidori, Uxie, Calm Mind Scream Tail, and Porygon-Z, as they can help to overwhelm shared Steel-type checks like Bronzong, Copperajah, and Registeel. Cinccino is also quite good at this, and it can remove entry hazards for Tornadus, letting it comfortably run a different item. Pokemon like Diancie, Toxtricity, and Weakness Policy Incineroar help bring in Fighting- and Ground-types like Breloom, Flygon, and Swampert, which all give Tornadus free setup opportunities. Since Tornadus will most likely thud into and faint to a Steel- or Rock-type, a teammate like Chandelure, Breloom, Torterra, or Flygon works well to take advantage of the free entry they get afterwards. A dedicated lead like Booster Energy Scream Tail, Brambleghast, Eject Pack Flygon, or Focus Sash Infernape is also appreciated to help wear down Tornadus's checks like Diancie, Registeel, and Alolan Muk. Sludge Bomb allows Tornadus to threaten Fairy-types like Sylveon, Florges, and Tera Fairy Galarian Slowbro, and it can usefully spread poison; however, Tornadus's other moves tend to provide more utility overall. Bulk Up sets can opt for Rest + Chesto Berry alongside Prankster so that they can set up many more times, but losing out on Defiant is quite detrimental with how common Intimidate is. A Choice Specs set with Hurricane / Focus Blast / Dark Pulse / U-turn can be run with Tornadus's enormous Special Attack and Speed as well as its access to pivoting, but its reliance on inaccurate moves can make it inconsistent at times. Tornadus can trade out Rain Dance and Damp Rock for Snowscape, Sunny Day, or Sandstorm and its respective weather-elongating item depending on what weather team it's being run on, but non-rain weather teams aren't as consistent overall.
Kartana (SM competitive strategy): Just like the rest of the Ultra Beasts, Kartana hails from a distant universe where balanced stats aren't a thing. Its flagship Choice Band set warps the match around its virtually unmatched immediate wallbreaking power, often forcing hard reads to limit progress. That raw power is supplemented by a superb natural Speed stat and well above-average physical bulk to give it significantly more entry opportunities than other wallbreakers and plenty of targets to revenge kill. If that wasn't enough, Kartana has Beast Boost to naturally punish sacrifices and efficiently clean games with a Choice Scarf. Its Swords Dance variant shapes the metagame’s Speed tiers, as there are very few defensive counters to all of its Z-Crystal options at once, requiring faster revenge killers as counterplay. Additionally, its physical bulk isn't just useful for switching directly into attacks; with access to Synthesis + Defog, Kartana is a strong Defog option on sun teams to counter Stealth Rock Garchomp and Landorus-T. While it looks perfect from the front, its bulk is as two-dimensional as the paper it's modeled on; Kartana has the worst special bulk of a fully evolved Pokemon not named Shedinja. Additionally, there's generally very little that's good about Grass as an offensive type due to the litany of common Grass-resistant Pokemon and unimpressive spread of super effective targets; Steel does little to help either, forcing Kartana to rely on its non-STAB moves. There are also plenty of set-dependent checks to Kartana, with options like Skarmory, Zapdos, Tornadus-T, and Mega Scizor answering several Kartana variants. Leaf Blade is the preferred STAB attack and allows Kartana to break through Pokemon like Rotom-W, Toxapex, and Garchomp without wasting its Z-Move. Sacred Sword provides valuable coverage against Steel-type Pokemon such as Heatran and Ferrothorn, which would otherwise wall this set. Giga Impact allows Kartana to break past some of its most common checks in Tornadus-T, Zapdos, Tangrowth, and Volcarona when used with Normalium Z. Smart Strike is an option that hits Fairy-types like Clefable and Magearna hard without having to utilize Kartana's Z-Move, while Knock Off can remove items from checks like Zapdos to make breaking through them easier. A Jolly nature is used over Adamant to outspeed all Pokemon with a base 108 Speed or lower, such as Garchomp, Tapu Lele, and Mega Medicham. Steelium Z is an option if Kartana is running Smart Strike. Be cautious about wasting Kartana's Z-Move, as without it, Kartana cannot break through its typical checks and is easily walled by Tornadus-T and Zapdos. Kartana's offensive prowess usually gives it at least one opportunity to set up on a foe that it threatens out during a match; thus, try to set up a Swords Dance against Pokemon that it can beat, such as Rotom-W, Ferrothorn, and Gliscor. Bulkier teams tend to have Pokemon faster than Kartana, such as Mega Latias and Mega Alakazam, that can easily revenge kill it. If your ultimate goal is to sweep, make it your primary task to eliminate these faster Pokemon before setting up; with these threats gone, Kartana can easily punch holes in these teams and pave the way for other teammates to sweep. Offensive teams tend to struggle switching into Kartana with the exception of glue Pokemon like Tornadus-T, but they can easily revenge kill it with faster Pokemon like Mega Alakazam, Greninja, and Tapu Koko, so try to weaken the opposing team as much as possible to allow a teammate to sweep easier late-game. It is important to note that even without a Swords Dance Attack boost, Kartana can OHKO Tornadus-T if it tries to pivot into Kartana to scout for a Choice set. Use this to your advantage, as removing Tornadus-T from opposing teams can open up a big hole for Kartana to do some serious damage. Pursuit from Tyranitar is extremely useful for Kartana because it eliminates this set's biggest revenge killers on bulky offense and balance builds: Mega Latias, Mega Latios, Mega Alakazam, and Tornadus-T. Offensive Pokemon that can simultaneously pressure Kartana's checks like Tangrowth and Zapdos, such as Ash-Greninja, Mega Lopunny, and Mega Alakazam, make for good partners. These Pokemon also have an easier time sweeping late-game after Kartana has weakened the opposing team. Pokemon like Heatran, Volcarona, and Magnezone can not only handle Celesteela and Mega Scizor, two of Kartana's best counters, but also draw in Pokemon that Kartana can potentially set up on such as Rotom-W, Toxapex, and Gliscor. Kartana is very frail and outsped by faster offensive Pokemon like Ash-Greninja, Mega Alakazam, and Tornadus-T, so having a Pokemon in the back to check these Pokemon is key; some good examples include Assault Vest Magearna and Tapu Koko. Volt Switch and U-turn users such as Rotom-W, Landorus-T, and Assault Vest Magearna can bring Kartana into play safely without it having to risk taking big hits due to its poor bulk. Leaf Blade is the Grass-type STAB move that hits quite hard for a move on a Choice Scarf user thanks to Kartana's high Attack stat, and Sacred Sword is the best complementary coverage move, hitting opposing Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Heatran. Another potential move can be Smart Strike, which is a secondary STAB move that can knock out Fairy-types such as Clefable. Knock Off is a great utility move to cripple Pokemon that wall Choice Scarf Kartana such as Celesteela and Zapdos, ridding them of their Leftovers. On the utility front, Defog can be used in the final slot if you want a quick, convenient form of entry hazard removal to slap onto more offensively oriented teams. Finally, Giga Impact is viable to remove Volcarona, as teams with Choice Scarf Kartana often are more offensive, lack another revenge killer, and struggle to defensively check Volcarona to the necessary extent, giving Kartana an emergency button to remove it at the cost of Kartana giving up a free turn after use to recharge. The EV spread allows Kartana to have a high damage output and Speed stat, as it is meant to be threatening and quick. Jolly is also used in order to maximize Kartana's Speed, as many Pokemon have similar base Speed stats. Choice Scarf is present to let Kartana clean opposing teams and act as a revenge killer, letting it outrun everything that is unboosted and most setup sweepers at +1. In addition, Defog can let it act as an entry hazard remover for a team that is in need of one, essentially letting you have an emergency button in case of a situation that is getting out of hand due to the presence of entry hazards on the field. Choice Scarf Kartana is meant to clean teams later on in games with the assistance of its ability, Beast Boost. Beast Boost lets it snowball Attack boosts and run through weakened teams. In addition, Choice Scarf Kartana functions as a revenge killer earlier on in games, outrunning and defeating or forcing out most common offensive threats in the metagame such as Greninja, Mega Lopunny, and Choice Scarf Tapu Lele. While locking into Defog is not particularly ideal, as Kartana has to switch out afterwards or become fodder, it is still convenient in some situations and should be used when entry hazards are proving to be problematic to your team during the early- to mid-game. Due to the fact that Swords Dance Kartana is the more common and threatening of the two sets, there are many occasions where you are facing an offensive team that lacks a true Kartana counter and you can take advantage of this via strategic utilization of this Kartana variant. Essentially, the opponent will often try to pivot to their faster, offensive checks that resist a certain move or predict you to use Swords Dance to break through a defensive pivot and Kartana can take advantage of this by hitting them with a strong attack right off the bat, making prediction easier to make, as you know it has to lock into a move. Choice Scarf Kartana is primarily used to clean up later on in games, so it should be paired with an early-game wallbreaker that can poke holes and do significant damage to opposing defensive cores, such as Choice Band Tyranitar or Mega Medicham. Also, Spikes support is appreciated by Choice Scarf Kartana, as the residual damage does rack up on opposing teams over time, but it is worth noting that there is some awkward overlap with the fact that Kartana itself could have to use Defog to clear away its own Spikes depending upon the situation. Pursuit support is appreciated by this variant of Kartana as well, as Mega Latios and Mega Latias can get in the way of Kartana trying to sweep with Leaf Blade or Sacred Sword, which are its two most commonly used moves. Tapu Bulu is a great teammate, as Grassy Terrain lets you clean up late-game with Leaf Blade fairly often, and it also provides Kartana with a bit of recovery each turn. Finally, offensive teams often appreciate the presence of Choice Scarf Kartana much more than other archetypes, as it gives them a quick Defog user and compresses roles while also posing as a very valuable offensive Steel-type that happens to have a plethora of resistances. Leaf Blade is Kartana's most powerful option, often strong enough to spam even against Pokemon that 2x resist it. Smart Strike OHKOes Clefable and Kyurem-B from full HP, OHKOes Tornadus-T after Stealth Rock, is Kartana's strongest option for beating down Magearna and Mega Mawile, and can bypass some 4x Grass-resistant Pokemon for a very safe option against chipped foes. Knock Off is Kartana's go-to move for guaranteeing progress, as it both hits would-be counters like Zapdos and Mega Charizard Y for big damage and removes items like Skarmory's Rocky Helmet and Celesteela's Leftovers to set itself up for later. Sacred Sword is a clean option against Steel-types, immediately threatening Heatran and Ferrothorn and also breaking down the best Kartana checks like Mega Scizor and Skarmory after preparation. Jolly is the preferred nature due to certain crucial Speed tiers, such as Garchomp and Mega Medicham, that would be lost out on with Adamant. It's not like Choice Band Kartana needs extra power anyway. Choice Band Kartana is in a unique spot as a wallbreaker, where it has the OHKO rolls, bulk, and Speed to switch directly into so many things that it would be nonsense not to use it aggressively. Early-game, it's fine to just hard switch Kartana in against physical attackers like Garchomp and Landorus-T and throw off Leaf Blade and Knock Off, though against slower wallbreakers where it takes on more of a revenge killer role, it's important to play it safer and not sacrifice it. In a lot of matchups, Kartana can make progress every time it enters the field just by spamming attacks, though for matchups against sturdier checks like Skarmory, it needs to set itself up. Removing any Rocky Helmets with Knock Off and chipping Regenerator pivots like Toxapex and Tornadus-T with Leaf Blade and Smart Strike, respectively, are conducive to muscling through opposing teams. Having Stealth Rock up is a big part of this plan, as it deals chip damage to Regenerator pivots, invalidates certain Flying-type checks like Zapdos, and creates some 2HKO opportunities such as Sacred Sword against Mega Scizor. The only cases where you want to hold off on using Kartana are when facing contact ability users like Zapdos and Volcarona, though this can be remedied by Misty Terrain support. Choice Band Kartana fits on a wide variety of teams; it can slot onto typical offense and bulky offense teams interchangeably with its other sets, but it really excels on more balanced teams, including sand teams as well as more traditional defensive teams. Tapu Fini is one of the best partners for Kartana, supporting it defensively by handling Fire- and Fighting-types as well as special revenge killers like Greninja; most importantly, though, its Misty Terrain allows Kartana to safely take Scald from defensive Pokemon and removes the risk of Static from Zapdos and Flame Body from Volcarona. Bulky pivots like Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Magearna are great support for maximizing Kartana's effectiveness. Kartana works incredibly well on sand teams, working as a crucial revenge killer to alleviate their generally poor Speed control outside of sand. Mega Tyranitar's Pursuit support can force progress against checks like Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Mega Latias, while Excadrill shares plenty of checks with Kartana, which it can either dent with boosted Corkscrew Crash or clean up after Kartana's wallbreaking. Kartana utilizes its outstanding physical bulk and powerful offensive presence to act as a good Defogger against several common entry hazard setters in the tier, including Landorus-T, Garchomp, Gliscor, Ferrothorn, and Chansey. Notably, it's the only Defogger in the tier that can reliably switch into and challenge Z-Move Garchomp. It can also switch into and Defog on Ferrothorn, as it takes negligible damage from Knock Off and is immune to Leech Seed while whittling Ferrothorn down with its own Knock Off. However, its sky-high Attack stat and strong Bloom Doom make it an offensive threat in its own right. Grassium Z, alongside Leaf Blade, gives Kartana a powerful nuke against Ground-types while also helping it revenge kill weakened, slower threats like Reuniclus and Mega Mawile. Knock Off cripples Pokemon like Ferrothorn, Celesteela, and Heatran by removing their Leftovers and punishing any attempts to pivot into Kartana. Synthesis gives Kartana the longevity to switch into Stealth Rock setters over the course of a game, as well as miscellaneous offensive Pokemon like Choice-locked Tapu Lele or Kartana, Tyranitar, or Mega Medicham's Ice Punch. Beast Boost can let it snowball late-game, giving it potential as a win condition. 128 Attack EVs let Kartana OHKO Z-Move Garchomp with Bloom Doom. HP investment lets Kartana play more freely as a Defogger and pivot into physical or resisted special hits more easily. Notably, the added bulk guarantees that Kartana will survive Jolly Mega Swampert's Superpower after Stealth Rock from full health. Kartana can use its numerous resistances and decent physical bulk to aggressively pivot into moves like Tapu Fini's Moonblast, Mega Medicham's Fake Out, and Tapu Lele's Psyshock and exert immediate pressure with the threat of its Z-Move and Knock Off crippling any switch-in. Overall, Kartana is usually played reactively in matchups where it needs to Defog against an opponent's entry hazard setter, but it can serve as a dangerous offensive threat in its own right when played aggressively and free of this restriction. Defog Kartana can be used on any team needing a check to Stealth Rock-setting Ground-types like Garchomp and Landorus-T. This makes it an ideal fit on Mega Charizard Y sun teams, where it can cover Mega Charizard Y's Stealth Rock weakness while getting a boost to its Synthesis healing. It is also able to switch into or force damage on some of Mega Charizard Y's common checks, including Chansey and Tyranitar. Some stall teams also appreciate its ability to reliably stop Garchomp from setting Stealth Rock, as well as its Speed tier and strength that help it double as a revenge killer against threats to stall like Mega Medicham and Manaphy. Swords Dance + Synthesis can be used as a semi-bulky wincon, though with only two attacks it has trouble covering defensive checks. Choice Band Kartana can drop Smart Strike for Frustration to break Zapdos and bulky Volcarona better, though it is a downgrade outside of specific matchups and can make Kartana more clunky late-game by removing a main cleaning tool. Darkinium Z can hit neutral targets hard while not requiring an otherwise-useless move in Giga Impact, though it has quite a low Base Power compared to other options and can miss OHKOs. Life Orb has seen usage on hyper offense teams to give it some better KO ranges alongside Swords Dance, leaving the Z-Move slot for a teammate.
Kartana (SS competitive strategy): Kartana is one of the tier's most potent wallbreakers thanks to its titanic Attack and a Speed tier that allows it to outspeed a significant portion of the unboosted metagame. Beast Boost compounds Kartana's offensive capabilities, letting it take advantage of weakened foes to get Attack boosts and tear through opposing teams. Swords Dance and Choice Band sets let it threaten even switch-ins like Zapdos and Corviknight, while Choice Scarf sets utilize its already-high Speed to make it a threatening revenge killer and late-game sweeper. Despite its huge offensive presence, Kartana is extremely frail, especially specially, making finding opportunities to set up a potential challenge and requiring pivot support, since it shouldn't be switching into attacks. Additionally, Choice Band and Choice Scarf sets are vulnerable to being punished by contact-based abilities like Ferrothorn's Iron Barbs, Heatran's Flame Body, and Zapdos's Static, all of which have the ability to severely hinder Kartana's wallbreaking capabilities. Swords Dance in conjunction with excellent coverage, a solid Speed tier, and Protective Pads keeping it from getting damaged, burned, or paralyzed by contact abilities make Kartana a terrifying wallbreaker. Leaf Blade can OHKO a number of defensive staples like Gastrodon, Rotom-W, and Tapu Fini, as well as offensive Pokemon such as Urshifu-R and Tapu Lele, threatening them and forcing them out. Knock Off can cripple common switch-ins like Zapdos and Tornadus-T by removing their Heavy-Duty Boots, making them easier to wear down, as well as hitting Ghost-types like Dragapult and Aegislash that would otherwise resist Kartana's attacks. Sacred Sword threatens Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Heatran, and Melmetal that would otherwise wall Kartana, potentially OHKOing all of them after a Swords Dance. Swords Dance Kartana fits well on bulky offense and balance teams thanks to its massive wallbreaking power helping against bulkier teams, in turn benefitting from the presence of slow pivots to get it in safely. Kartana provides potent Knock Off support for its team, as it can easily force repeated switches and gradually wear down checks that are required to be as healthy as possible to handle it. Due to this, it pairs well with entry hazard setters like Landorus-T and Heatran, the former helping weaken Zapdos and Tornadus-T and the latter easily keeping up Stealth Rock against them to maintain pressure after Kartana removes their Heavy-Duty Boots. Due to its frailty, Kartana also benefits from slow pivots like Landorus-T and Slowbro that can safely bring it in. With a Choice Scarf, Kartana efficiently zeroes in on its role as a revenge killer and cleaner; its great natural Speed makes it one of the fastest Choice Scarf users, which allows it to outspeed and revenge kill opposing Choice Scarf users like Urshifu-R, Tapu Lele, and Blacephalon. It can force out Dragapult by threatening it with a super effective Knock Off, as well as pick off other lightning-fast offensive Pokemon like Tapu Koko, Weavile, Zeraora, and +1 Garchomp with Leaf Blade. Kartana can also punish incoming Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Melmetal, Heatran, and opposing Kartana with Sacred Sword. Smart Strike is a useful late-game move, as it can hit Grass-, Fighting-, and Dark-resistant foes like Dragapult, Buzzwole, Weavile, and Clefable in the same slot. This is important because Kartana wants to lock itself into a move and clean without switching out, due to the nature of Beast Boost. Kartana excels at cleaning up weakened teams late-game, as it only needs one opportunity for a free KO to start snowballing out of control. A wide variety of offensive teamstyles can appreciate Kartana's revenge killing capabilities and provide wallbreaking support that paves a way for Kartana to clean up. Future Sight support from the likes of Galarian Slowking and Slowbro allows Kartana to bust through checks like Zapdos and Buzzwole, and Slowbro can provide free entry for Kartana with Teleport. Kartana synergizes well with physical wallbreakers like Swords Dance variants of Weavile, Landorus-T, Bisharp, and Garchomp; physical Dragapult; and Melmetal, which can help wear down or break past checks like Zapdos, Tornadus-T, and Corviknight; these teammates are potentially assisted by Kartana removing items from the aforementioned foes. Pivots like Landorus-T and Rotom-W generate momentum and attacking opportunities for both Kartana and the wallbreakers it is paired with. Magnezone can remove Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Corviknight to make Kartana a bigger threat. Tapu Lele can provide wallbreaking support for Kartana by helping to overwhelm shared checks like Ferrothorn and Corviknight, luring in the latter and hitting it with Thunderbolt while also protecting Kartana from priority moves like Weavile’s Ice Shard with Psychic Terrain. Rillaboom can work in tandem with Kartana to overwhelm shared checks and provide pivoting support while boosting the power of Leaf Blade with Grassy Terrain. With Choice Band, Kartana becomes much more of an immediate threat, giving it absurd instant breaking power with its STAB Leaf Blade slicing through Water-types like Slowbro and Tapu Fini in one hit and threatening neutral targets like Landorus-T, Toxapex, and Garchomp with a 2HKO. Smart Strike mows down Fairy-types, being able to OHKO Clefable, and is a solid midground that hits all of Tornadus-T, Dragapult, and Rillaboom in the same slot, finishing off the last after minor chip damage. Knock Off smacks Aegislash and Dragapult trying to switch in, but more importantly, it removes Heavy-Duty Boots from checks like Zapdos and Buzzwole, opening them up to entry hazard damage that will give Kartana and its team an easier time breaking through them. Sacred Sword puts the hurt on the likes of Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Melmetal, 2HKOing them without any issue. Choice Band Kartana is a great pick for offense teams, using its unmatched immediate power to break holes for fast cleaners like Choice Scarf Tapu Lele, Dragapult, and Weavile to take advantage of and leveraging its solid physical bulk to take strong physical hits like Zeraora’s Close Combat and Choice Band Weavile’s Triple Axel in a pinch. Future Sight from the likes of Slowbro, Galarian Slowking, and Tapu Lele is incredibly beneficial to Kartana, blowing past Buzzwole and removing defensive counterplay from the opponent by easing prediction. The way to get the most mileage out of Kartana is by pairing it with pivots that can get it in safely against its ideal targets; offensive pivots like Dragapult, Tornadus-T, and Tapu Koko can force switches with their offensive presence to get Kartana in against easy marks like Clefable and Blissey, and slow pivots like Landorus-T and Slowbro can take a hit first before bringing in Kartana safely. Additionally, Tapu Koko can remove Flying-types like Corviknight and Tornadus-T and threaten out Buzzwole while appreciating Kartana's removal of Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gastrodon. Entry hazard setters like Landorus-T, Heatran, and Garchomp synergize well with Kartana's strong Knock Off, as it opens up switch-ins like Zapdos and Tornadus-T to Stealth Rock damage by removing their Heavy-Duty Boots. Heatran is a notable option, as it has the additional benefit of threatening Defoggers like Corviknight and Tornadus-T that can switch into Kartana, with Kartana being able to help against Defoggers like Tapu Fini and Rotom-W that can force out Heatran. On more offensively oriented teams, Swords Dance Kartana sets can opt to run Life Orb instead of Protective Pads to further enhance its offensive potency, allowing it to OHKO Clefable and Toxapex after Stealth Rock, though this runs the risk of triggering Static or Flame Body. It can also run a Timid nature with 19 Attack IVs and no Attack investment to get Speed boosts from Beast Boost, letting it outspeed Pokemon like Dragapult and Tapu Koko that might otherwise revenge kill it, though this comes at the cost of a huge part of its power. Adrenaline Orb is also a niche option on offensive teams to receive a one-time Speed boost without sacrificing any of Kartana's power. Aerial Ace can be run on Swords Dance variants to hit Kartana's most common check in Buzzwole, which otherwise resists Kartana's commonly run moves. Defog can be run, most commonly on Choice Scarf sets, to allow Kartana to provide entry hazard removal support, though Kartana's general frailty can make this difficult to pull off.
Kartana (SV competitive strategy): Kartana functions as a deadly wallbreaker, capable of devastating defensive cores such as Gliscor, Toxapex, and Ferrothorn by virtue of its incredibly high Attack stat as well as access to Swords Dance. Furthermore, its Speed enables it to outspeed Pokemon such as Garchomp, allowing it to revenge kill them at +2. Sacred Sword hits Steel-types such as Melmetal, Ferrothorn, and Kingambit, securing a 2HKO on Melmetal at +2. +2 Breakneck Blitz can be used in order to OHKO defensive pivots such as Zapdos and Moltres as well as other defensive Pokemon such as Mega Venusaur. Knock Off allows Kartana to hit bulky Ghost-types such as Pecharunt and Gholdengo hard, securing OHKOs on both at +2. +2 All-Out Pummeling lets it pick up OHKOs on other defensive pivots such as Corviknight and Skarmory after Stealth Rock. Kartana fits best on balance and bulky offense teams where it functions as a strong wallbreaker, capable of ravaging stall and bulkier teams. Pokemon such as Gholdengo and Zamazenta make for excellent teammates offensively, as they benefit from Kartana's ability to break through special and physical walls such as Ting-Lu and Toxapex, respectively. In return, Gholdengo aids Kartana by breaking through physical walls that it may struggle with such as Corviknight and Skarmory, while Zamazenta threatens most bulky Steel-types such as Melmetal. However, Kartana's poor special bulk leaves it weak to almost every special attacker in the format such as Raging Bolt, Mega Diancie, and Mega Latios, while its typing leaves it vulnerable to Fighting-types such as Zamazenta and Mega Lopunny as well as Fire-types such as Cinderace and Iron Moth. Hence, Kartana appreciates Pokemon such as Ting-Lu and Gliscor that can sponge most special hits with ease. Pecharunt, Toxapex, and Galarian Slowking make for excellent teammates by virtue of checking most Pokemon that Kartana may struggle with or face the threat of being revenge killed by such as Fighting-types like Choice Scarf Urshifu-R and Mega Lopunny as well as special attackers like Iron Valiant and Iron Moth. Moreover, Galarian Slowking is capable of checking offensive structures comprising of Tapu Koko and special Iron Valiant variants that may trouble Kartana while also providing valuable Future Sight support, aiding Kartana in wallbreaking and acting as a strong defensive pivot. Despite Kartana's Speed being nothing short of average, access to a Choice Scarf allows it to outspeed most threats and gain momentum with Beast Boost after a KO, enabling it to act as a strong revenge killer and late-game sweeper. Knock Off enables Kartana to 2HKO bulky Ghost-types such as Gholdengo after some chip damage from entry hazards, whereas Sacred Sword allows it to hit Steel-types such as Melmetal. Defog can be used over Smart Strike in order to remove hazards. Choice Scarf Kartana fits best on balance and bulky offense teams, where its teammates appreciate its ability to revenge kill Pokemon such as Mega Diancie and Iron Valiant. However, due to Kartana's poor STAB combination and coverage, it effectively becomes a highly exploitable Choice-locked Pokemon that many foes can freely set up on such as Dragonite and Volcarona. As a result, Kartana appreciates having teammates in Ting-Lu, Toxapex, and Zapdos, all of which are able to check most of the aformentioned threats. Kartana's poor special bulk leaves it weak to a majority of the format's special attackers such as Mega Latios and Mega Charizard Y, both of which Kartana is unable to KO without significant chip damage or if it's locked into the wrong move. Moreover, its typing leaves it vulnerable to Fire- and Fighting-types such as Zamazenta or Cinderace. Hence, Kartana appreciates teammates such as Pecharunt, Moltres, and Heatran to switch into its numerous threats. Kartana functions as a unique offensive Defogger. It uses its good defensive typing and access to reliable recovery in Synthesis to offensively check threatening Ground-types while removing the entry hazards that they set. Its ability to threaten common hazard setters such as Gliscor, Ting-Lu, Great Tusk, and Hisuian Samurott makes it a decent Defogger even in spite of its relatively mediocre matchup versus Gholdengo. Knock Off is the preferred coverage move, as it applies some pressure to Gholdengo. It also removes items from Pokemon such as Zapdos, Moltres, and Dragonite that this Kartana set cannot pressure much otherwise, although Dragonite and bulky Gholdengo can still set up on it. Sacred Sword is an alternative that allows Kartana to check Kingambit and pressure Ferrothorn and Melmetal more appreciably than Knock Off, although being a Defogger that cannot pressure Gholdengo at all is not preferable. Grassium Z alongside 120 EVs in Attack allows Kartana to OHKO offensive Garchomp with Bloom Doom. 136 EVs are put into HP to allow Kartana to take a couple more hits and notably allow it to take a Ogerpon-W Superpower from full health. Kartana fits well on certain offensive teams that value its ability to offensively check Ground-types such as Great Tusk, Garchomp, and Ting-Lu. It does this while removing entry hazards and remaining fairly threatening on its own terms. It is an especially good fit on sun teams anchored by Mega Charizard Y, as they require multiple forms of hazard removal and tend to dislike facing many of the tier's Ground-types, especially Garchomp. Kartana's Synthesis also gains a boost when under sun. Kartana's inability to break bulky Gholdengo without significant support is a major hinderance, so teams utilizing it must have other ways to pressure it. Strong Ground- and Fire-types such as Great Tusk, Garchomp, Mega Charizard Y, and Heatran can assist Kartana in taking down Gholdengo and can take advantage of Kartana often forcing Gholdengo to use Recover. They can also pressure Mega Scizor, which is another problematic matchup. Kartana also synergizes well with hazard setters on its own team, as it can potentially beat Gholdengo with Spikes support and force a Knock Off onto foes reliant on Heavy-Duty Boots. Spikes setters such as Gliscor or Stealth Rock setters such as Great Tusk, Garchomp, and Kommo-o are therefore good partners. Kartana's horrible Special Defense prevents it from switching into virtually any special attacker, so teammates such as Galarian Slowking, Gliscor, and Moltres are good teammates. These three are also capable of slotting in pivoting moves, which allows them to keep up momentum for Kartana's offensive teammates. Kartana also often appreciates a second Steel-type, as it defensively functions very differently from other Steel-types due to its inability to check threats such as Tapu Lele, Mega Latios, and Mega Diancie. Gholdengo, Heatran, and Melmetal are good teammates as a result.
Glastrier (SV competitive strategy): Glastrier's defining role is that of a bulky physical wallbreaker. It has outstanding bulk for ZU; furthermore, its stellar base 145 Attack, Icicle Crash, and all the coverage it needs including Close Combat and High Horsepower make it extremely difficult to switch into. Lastly, Glastrier can boost its Attack even further with Swords Dance, allowing it to potentially OHKO or 2HKO almost the entire metagame. Defensive staples like Snorlax and Dipplin are often forced to Terastallize or switch out versus it. This means that Glastrier's most reliable defensive counterplay is somewhat specific, being limited to almost exclusively Regirock and Orthworm, none of which have reliable recovery, and the latter two of which often require Terastallization to fully check Glastrier. Swords Dance Glastrier acts as a fearsome wallbreaker, leveraging its outstanding bulk and the threat of its attacks to create setup opportunities for itself. Close Combat takes on bulky Pokemon that resist Icicle Crash like Orthworm and Thick Fat Snorlax. High Horsepower serves as effective coverage for Fire-types. Tera Ground gives Glastrier a resistance to Rock while boosting the power of High Horsepower, while Tera Water and Fairy flip Glastrier's weaknesses to common offensive types like Fire and Fighting. 252 Speed EVs allows it to outspeed slower walls like Regirock, while the bulk investment lets it take on powerful attacks from various threats in the tier. Glastrier greatly appreciates teammates that can help bring it in safely like Jolteon and Mesprit, since it often has to take a hit after switching in due to its poor Speed. Glastrier also works well alongside other wallbreakers like Choice Specs Jolteon, Charizard, Hisuian Sneasel, as they are able to break down checks like Snorlax and Regirock for each other. Due to its many weaknesses as an Ice-type, Glastrier loves teammates it can fall back on to support it; some of these teammates include Snorlax and Regirock. As a wallbreaker, Glastrier does exceedingly well alongside Pokemon like Oricorio-F and Typhlosion that can often take advantage of the holes that Glastrier makes in defensive cores through removal of foes like Snorlax and Regirock. Glastrier can opt to run Heavy Slam alongside Tera Steel over High Horsepower to hit light foes like Mesprit and Steel-weak foes like Tera Fairy Dipplin and Malamar. However, trading out High Horsepower for Heavy Slam tends to be overkill, as Glastrier's standard three-move coverage sufficiently hits all relevant foes. Glastrier can also consider running Substitute to ease prediction, but all of its coverage moves are near mandatory, and without Swords Dance, Glastrier can struggle to threaten the walls it needs to.
Ribombee (SM competitive strategy): Ribombee can be a passable option as a fast special attacker thanks to its high Speed tier and good coverage. It can revenge kill an assortment of offensive threats, including Choice Band Zygarde-10%, Nasty Plot Salazzle, Noivern, and Virizion, and has Quiver Dance to beat Choice Scarf users that would otherwise revenge kill it. Ribombee also has a few appealing support options in Sticky Web, Tailwind, and Defog, which could potentially fill holes in a team. Unfortunately, several large weaknesses prevent Ribombee from being very common in the metagame. While Bug / Fairy isn't a terrible defensive typing, Ribombee's absurd frailty means it can only switch into passive walls and weak resisted hits. Anything remotely strong, even resisted, will likely 2HKO it. While fast, it still is outsped by every relevant Choice Scarf user when unboosted, and most of them will OHKO it as long as Stealth Rock is up. Priority users such as Machamp and Zygarde-10% can also prove troublesome. Having average Special Attack for a sweeper forces Ribombee to use its Z-Move to revenge kill prominent threats like Virizion, leaving it depleted for potential future sweeps. Finally, common special tanks on bulky teams like Registeel, Snorlax, and Bronzong can weather even boosted attacks, making Ribombee struggle to successfully dent holes in such teams. U-turn is great for pivoting out of some sturdier Fairy-type answers such as Registeel. Although Sticky Web on a Choice Specs set may seem odd, it's great for slowing down opposing teams, and Ribombee's offensive presence yields plenty of opportunities to set it up. Psychic improves Ribombee's ability to act as a revenge killer, letting it remove Pokemon like Salazzle. It also lets Ribombee hit Pokemon like Nidoqueen and Roserade. Sticky Web or Psychic can be dropped for Hidden Power Fire, which allows Ribombee to remove weakened Steel-types. However, Bug Buzz already hits Steel-types such as Bronzong and Metagross, so Hidden Power Fire is commonly inefficient. A Timid nature allows Ribombee to outpace Pokemon like Noivern, Zygarde-10%, and Raikou. Shield Dust lets Ribombee avoid secondary effects such as burn from Scald. Utilize Ribombee's defensive typing to pivot into and check attackers such as Synthesis Virizion, Zygarde-10%, Shaymin, and weakened Mega Blastoise. However, give such threats as few turns as possible, as Ribombee's lackluster bulk prevents it from switching in more than one or two times. Ribombee's somewhat lackluster Special Attack prevents it from being able to make headway against Pokemon such as Registeel, Milotic, and Porygon2. So, instead of attacking them, use U-turn on the switch in to gain momentum and give free turns to teammates. Set up Sticky Web on forced switches to support slower teammates. For example, if up against a Pokemon such as Virizion or Tsareena, take advantage of the free turn by setting up Sticky Web. However, use Sticky Web with caution to avoid giving opposing setup sweepers like Barbaracle free turns. Choice Specs Ribombee is best used on bulky offense teams that really appreciate its defensive typing allowing it to be a one- or two-time switch-in to some of the tier's bigger threats, mainly Zygarde-10%, Virizion lacking Stone Edge, and Shaymin. Slow, powerful wallbreakers such as Guts Machamp, Choice Band Tyrantrum, and Pangoro appreciate Ribombee's ability to give them free turns through U-turn and, especially, Sticky Web, which lets them outpace checks such as Mega Blastoise. They also break down many of Ribombee's checks and counters, making it much easier to clean up late-game with Ribombee. Sticky Web is also fantastic support for setup sweepers, as it allows teammates like Virizion to beat Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Gardevoir and Shaymin and Rock Polish Tyrantrum to outpace Choice Scarf Salazzle. Tyrantrum also makes use of Ribombee's weakness to Fire- and Poison-types to set up. Quiver Dance allows Ribombee to boost its Special Attack and Speed to high levels and buff its Special Defense to something respectable. Moonblast is Ribombee's strongest STAB move, possessing strong neutral coverage. Psychic prevents common Poison-types such as Nidoqueen and Salazzle from walling Ribombee. Bug Buzz is used as a strong STAB option and to hit threats like Shaymin, Cresselia, Metagross, and Bronzong harder. Hidden Power Fire can be used instead to hits the numerous Steel-types in RU that resist Bug Buzz, including Escavalier, Klinklang, and Forretress. 252 Special Attack EVs let Ribombee hit as hard as possible. 252 Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow unboosted Ribombee to outspeed threats like Noivern and Zygarde-10%, and even the fastest Choice Scarf users like Salazzle after a boost. Fairium Z lets Ribombee break through some naturally bulky Fairy-neutral checks like Gardevoir and Diancie. Shield Dust prevents secondary effects from attacks that Ribombee might tank while boosting like Milotic's Scald. Remove priority users such as Arcanine, Zygarde-10%, Golisopod, Medicham, and Mega Glalie before attempting to boost, as they can quickly cut a sweep short. Try to preserve Ribombee's health early-game so that it has a better chance to survive a hit when it needs to boost. You should avoid bringing it in with direct switches, but you can still use this set to revenge kill if necessary. Weakening Ribombee's checks and counters to the point where Twinkle Tackle can KO them will allow you to sweep more easily. Keeping entry hazards away for Ribombee allows it to revenge kill early- and mid-game without removing its ability to sweep late-game. Ground-types such as Nidoqueen, Seismitoad, and Rhyperior can both threaten Steel-types and keep Stealth Rock on the field to increase Ribombee's chance of sweeping. Fighting-types such as Medicham, Virizion, and Bewear can break holes in special tanks like Snorlax, Registeel, and Porygon2, creating chances for Ribombee to sweep the rest of your opponent's team. Roserade and Gardevoir are interesting teammate options on hyper offense teams, as with Sleep Powder and Memento they can give Ribombee chances to set up freely. Mega Blastoise synergizes very well with Ribombee, providing both good coverage and hazard removal. Pursuit trappers like Drapion and Sneasel can remove troublesome Ribombee checks like Bronzong and Alolan Marowak. A Sticky Web lead set with Focus Sash is usable, but Sticky Web offense is too unreliable for this set to warrant much attention. Tailwind can give wallbreakers a couple turns to wreak havoc. Defog can be used if you desperately need hazard removal and can't fit it anywhere else, but Ribombee is horrible at removing because of its Stealth Rock weakness and inability to adequately threaten most hazard users.
Ribombee (SS competitive strategy): Ribombee makes for an incredibly versatile threat due to its blistering Speed, good typing, and solid movepool. These traits render it capable of fulfilling multiple roles, ranging from an offensive pivot able to support its teammates with Sticky Web to a capable wallbreaker and cleaner with Choice Specs and Quiver Dance, respectively. It can also revenge kill various threats like Sneasel and Archeops. However, Ribombee struggles a lot against Steel- and Fire-types as well as specially defensive walls like Aggron, Magmortar, and Gigalith due to its average Special Attack and relative lack of coverage options. Thanks to its decent coverage and great Speed, Ribombee makes for a fairly threatening setup sweeper. Roost allows Ribombee to use walls like non-Toxic Quagsire as setup fodder and helps Ribombee stay around if it loses its Heavy-Duty Boots. Aromatherapy lets Ribombee support its team and prevents it from being deterred or shut down by status. Psychic is an alternative that nails Poison-types like Weezing and Garbodor. U-turn gives Ribombee more utility early- and mid-game when its checks are still healthy. Bug Buzz can be used to hit Psychic- and Grass-types like Mesprit and Eldegoss without needing a boost, though the move has little use otherwise. Wallbreakers like Mesprit and Trevenant are vital partners; they soften up Pokemon like Gigalith, Aggron, and Charizard, making Ribombee much more of a nuisance. Due to its poor bulk, teammates that can bring Ribombee in safely like Lanturn and Togedemaru make for stellar partners; the former can also switch into Fire-types such as Charizard. Lastly, other cleaners like Doublade can set up on Ribombee's answers, and vice versa. Ribombee's coverage and Speed make it a potent wallbreaker and revenge killer when wielding a Choice Specs. Sticky Web is an option over U-turn for Ribombee to support its teammates, while Switcheroo lets it cripple answers like Gigalith and Togedemaru. However, U-turn is the preferred option due to it easing prediction. Cleaners like Sneasel and Gourgeist-S appreciate Ribombee weakening walls like Weezing and Aggron for them. Doublade is another great teammate, as it can also take advantage of some of the various walls that Ribombee finds itself unable to break, such as specially defensive Togedemaru. Stealth Rock and other entry hazards are a huge nuisance to this particular set; they heavily dent Ribombee and make it easier to pick off with a priority move, meaning it has a harder time revenge killing Pokemon like Sneasel and Absol. This makes entry hazard control absolutely vital, with Charizard and Sandslash standing out as great options because they also deal with threats Ribombee struggles against. This set makes Ribombee a capable offensive pivot capable of supporting its teammates with Sticky Web. Stun Spore allows Ribombee to cripple threats it struggles against, like Charizard, while Psychic allows it to hit Poison-types, notably Weezing. U-turn takes advantage of the switches Ribombee forces and allows it to bring it teammates against the Pokemon it invites in. Pokemon like Perrserker, Magmortar, and Aggron make for fantastic partners; not only do they greatly appreciate Ribombee's Sticky Web, but they can also easily take on threats Ribombee has a hard time against such as Togedemaru and Gigalith. Due to Ribombee's unimpressive damage output, it appreciates Spikes from partners like Froslass, which can pressure Steel-types for Ribombee and also enjoys Ribombee being able to revenge kill or cripple faster threats like Sneasel. Froslass can also switch into Rapid Spin users like Eldegoss trying to get rid of Ribombee's Sticky Web.
Ribombee (SV competitive strategy): Ribombee flutters its way into RU as a powerful Sticky Web setter that can use its access to Stun Spore to hinder foes that threaten to clear its Sticky Web, such as Talonflame and Noivern. Ribombee's ability to outspeed Pokemon such as Cyclizar, Noivern, and Maushold is invaluable, as it can threaten them with either Moonblast or Stun Spore, which cripples them immensely. It is able to leverage its high Speed in order to reliably get up Sticky Web, which can support slow wallbreakers such as Gallade, Armarouge, and Feraligatr in order to sweep effectively. Ribombee can also utilize a wide variety of support moves in order to cripple the opposing team such as Trick and Stun Spore, which is incredibly useful due to its ability to outspeed Pokemon such as Noivern, Maushold and Gengar. Ribombee is mainly held back by its inability to damage Steel-types like Registeel and Empoleon and its difficulty dealing with Talonflame. Ribombee is an effective Sticky Web lead, enabling slower setup sweepers such as Armarouge, Gallade, and Porygon-Z. Stun Spore can cripple foes that want to set up against Ribombee, such as Bisharp and Gyarados. Psychic Noise deals with Poison-types such as Amoonguss very effectively while also making sure that Ribombee cannot be used as setup fodder by bulky Pokemon such as Calm Mind Reuniclus and Calm Mind Slowbro. Focus Sash ensures Ribombee can get off Sticky Web and lets it have a chance to use a second move in order to further cripple the foe. Shield Dust ensures that Ribombee isn't affected by the secondary effects of moves such as Iron Head from Choice Scarf Jirachi in order to reliably get up Sticky Web. Tera Ghost allows Ribombee to act as a temporary spinblocker if needed against Cyclizar and Forretress. Ribombee fits best on hyper offense teams, where it can lead off games in order to get off Sticky Webs. Ghost-type partners such as Basculegion-F and Mimikyu pair well with Ribombee, as they can spinblock for it and stop Sticky Web from being removed. Defiant Pokemon such as Bisharp and Galarian Zapdos also pair well with Ribombee, as they can punish Defog attempts from Noivern and Talonflame, though they do have to be careful of the Will-O-Wisp that Talonflame usually uses. Slow, strong wallbreakers such as Gallade, Armarouge, and Breloom love Ribombee's Sticky Web, as they can use it to outspeed faster foes they might otherwise struggle with such as Maushold and Krookodile. Quiver Dance can make Ribombee much more threatening, as not only can it allow it to outspeed Talonflame to ensure it can get off a Sticky Web, it can also be kept around until late game once Steel-types such as Registeel and Empoleon have been dealt with to clean up a team. Tera Blast Ground can be used to deal big damage to the Steel-types that commonly wall it such as Hisuian Goodra and Magnezone. Choice Specs is an option alongside Trick in order to cripple foes such as Talonflame and Empoleon while dealing impressive damage against neutral targets. Choice Scarf can be used alongside a Modest nature to make Ribombee an effective revenge killing option against Galarian Zapdos.
Carbink (XY competitive strategy): Carbink is one of the tier's premier physical walls due to its great role compression, ability to check Normal- and Fire-types and Scraggy, and access to Stealth Rock. STAB Moonblast does notably well against the likes of Vibrava, Scraggy, and Krokorok while also hitting the majority of the tier neutrally. Calm Mind is used as a win condition and to minimize damage from many weaker special threats like Electabuzz and defensive Ivysaur, which would take advantage of it otherwise. Carbink can switch in on a plethora of Pokemon like Scraggy, Pignite, and Persian, so Rest is important to let it consistently check them. Rocky Helmet is the item of choice to further help chip down the aforementioned Pokemon and punish U-turn and Knock Off users, on top of the Stealth Rock damage they take upon entry. Balance and stall teams look to Carbink as an option for a Stealth Rock setter and physical wall. Carbink struggles to perform well against Steel- and Grass-types like Klang and Servine, so Pignite, Swalot, and Magmar all make good partners to help alleviate this. Other defensive walls like Bronzor and Duosion appreciate Carbink's ability to take on Scraggy. Bronzor, as well as Grass-types like Ivysaur and Gogoat, also appreciates Carbink's ability to take hits from Pignite and Magmar. Carbink pairs well with offensive Pokemon like Simipour, Sawsbuck, and Murkrow because it switches into and chips down faster pivots like Persian and Furfrou with Rocky Helmet. Carbink also greatly benefits from clerics like Meganium and Wigglytuff, since they give Carbink an easier time using Rest. Carbink can opt to run an offensive Stealth Rock set that can threaten entry hazard removers like Vibrava and Dustox with its STAB moves. Earth Power is great coverage to surprise Pokemon that can normally switch in on its defensive set, OHKOing Lairon and 3HKOing Swalot and offensive Klang. Power Gem can safely 2HKO Whirlipede and Dustox after Stealth Rock, which is especially helpful when the former would otherwise set up a full set of Spikes. Rocky Helmet is to help chip down physical threats that Carbink can switch in on like Pignite and Persian. Without a Modest nature, Carbink can't safely hit any of the damage ranges above; it doesn't need more Speed to perform its job regardless. Carbink does best on balance teams looking for a threatening Stealth Rock user that can keep its entry hazards up. Carbink is completely walled by Bronzor, so teammates like Scraggy and Krokorok are appreciated to help force it out. Frailer teammates like Simisage and Murkrow appreciate Carbink's ability to switch in safely against Normal-types like Persian and Furfrou. Water-types like Simipour and Frogadier greatly threaten Carbink, so teammates like Politoed, Servine, and Ivysaur can help alleviate this issue. These same Grass-types appreciate Carbink switching into Magmar and Pignite's STAB moves. Opposing Servine, Ivysaur, and the like also threaten Carbink and hardly take any damage in return, so Swalot and Klang make for good partners to handle them. Swalot and Klang also do well at absorbing status for Carbink, since poison and burn can quickly wear it down. Although Carbink can greatly damage it on its switch in with Earth Power, Klang can still destroy Carbink the following turn unless Carbink has teammates like Pignite, Magmar, and Electabuzz to come in and take the hit for it. Bronzor and Duosion are completely helpless against Scraggy, so they appreciate having Carbink as a partner to counter it. Klang, Huntail, and Scraggy appreciate the Stealth Rock support that Carbink provides, helping them reach easier KO ranges against Electabuzz, Sawsbuck, and Dusclops, respectively. If paired with a Stealth Rock user like Bronzor or Hippopotas, Carbink can opt for Iron Defense instead of Stealth Rock to become a threatening setup sweeper that is hard to take down when it starts boosting. Carbink can use Earth Power over Calm Mind on its physical wall set to catch the likes of Lairon, Magmar, and Swalot off guard, even if it does middling damage. It can also choose to run Power Gem instead of Calm Mind to better hit Jumpluff and Dustox. However, Carbink is incredibly passive without Calm Mind, so that's the preferred option.
Carbink (SM competitive strategy): Carbink is the very definition of a fantastic Trick Room lead. With access to Stealth Rock, Magic Coat, and Sturdy, Carbink nearly guarantees Trick Room's setup. In particular, Explosion allows the conservation of limited Trick Room turns for its offensive teammates to exploit, which keeps offensive momentum. However, Carbink is also incredibly passive, with even Explosion doing relatively little due to its meager, uninvested base 50 Attack. Trick Room Carbink is also a one-trick pony, and because the opponent knows Carbink is mandatorily used as lead on Trick Room teams, it becomes incredibly evident which strategy is being used, making it easier for opponents to select their most appropriate anti-lead. Nevertheless, Carbink stands out as the most reliable Trick Room setter in the metagame due to its outstanding bulk, access to several useful utility options, and ability to conserve Trick Room turns for its teammates. Trick Room allows naturally slower Pokemon, particularly Carbink's teammates such as Rampardos and Beheeyem, to outspeed faster foes. Magic Coat bounces back certain non-attacking moves such as Crustle's Spikes and Floatzel's Taunt after Carbink's Mental Herb has already nullified it once. Explosion provides Carbink with a means to sacrifice itself, conserving limited turns of Trick Room for offensive teammates such as Toucannon and Wishiwashi and breaking Sturdy and Focus Sash from users such as Crustle and Smeargle. Mental Herb lifts the effects of Taunt and Encore once, ensuring Carbink sets up Trick Room reliably. Sturdy prevents Carbink from being OHKOed by strong, super effective attacks such as Choice Specs Floatzel's Hydro Pump. Carbink's physically defensive spread and Relaxed nature allow it to take on a myriad of physical attackers such as Pinsir and Electivire with relative ease while decreasing Carbink's Speed even further to ensure it can outspeed as many foes as possible under Trick Room and pull off its Explosion. Trick Room variants of Carbink should almost always be selected to lead, as guaranteeing Sturdy is intact ensures Carbink sets up Trick Room safely for its teammates. An important question to ask after seeing what the opponent has chosen for their lead is if it commonly carries Taunt or if it can 2HKO Carbink. Additionally, the Carbink user should determine if switching out is more beneficial than using Explosion, such as when facing the risk of being locked into Trick Room after Mental Herb has been removed by a Prankster Encore user such as Volbeat. Carbink should avoid its passivity being used against itself to burn its own turns of Trick Room. Being aware of the likelihood of this will help determine whether or not Carbink can set Stealth Rock in addition to Trick Room against foes such as Bronzor and Crustle. Carbink should also consider when to use Magic Coat against non-attacking moves such as Smeargle's Spore, and it should always immediately use Explosion after setting Trick Room, so as to conserve as many turns of Trick Room as possible for its more offensively inclined teammates. This includes situations where Carbink faces a foe that resists or is immune to Explosion such as Bronzor or Gourgeist-XL. Strong, slow wallbreakers such as Toucannon, Marowak, Camerupt, Wishiwashi, and Rampardos can make use of the Trick Room support Carbink provides. Due to Trick Room's short duration, additional Trick Room setters are also mandatory. Other options include Dusknoir, which can provide healing support with Z-Memento, and Gourgeist-XL, which, similarly to Carbink, can preserve turns of Trick Room with Explosion. Beheeyem is a great example of an offensive Trick Room user that can not only reliably set up Trick Room but also fire off Analytic-boosted attacks. Pokemon that can provide fast offense outside of Trick Room such as Floatzel and Choice Scarf Electivire are also helpful for cleaning up late-game. A specially defensive set utilizing Stealth Rock, Toxic, Rest, and either Rock Slide or Moonblast can be utilized on more defensively inclined teams. However, Carbink doesn't have that great of a matchup versus opposing entry hazard removers, and even for stall teams Carbink is incredibly passive due to the lack of a fixed damage output move in its movepool such as Seismic Toss or Night Shade. Power Gem has more PP than Rock Slide as well as a slightly greater damage output; however, most Power Gem targets are more specially defensive, making it a worse option than Rock Slide against foes such as Choice Scarf Rapidash. Carbink can utilize a mono-attacking set with Calm Mind and RestTalk to slowly but surely set up and act as a bulky sweeper. However, Carbink has a plethora of weaknesses, and its overall passivity, exacerbated by Rest's mandatory sleep turns, leaves it easily taken advantage of. Carbink can also attempt to pull off a Reflect and Light Screen set, which may at first sound appealing due its abysmal Speed in combination with its access to a self-sacrifice move to differentiate itself from other Reflect and Light Screen setters such as Electrode and Meowstic and bring in a frail offensive teammate such as Swoobat for free. However, because Carbink would then have to opt for Light Clay over Mental Herb, it becomes even more susceptible to Taunt and Encore. Heat Rock variants of Carbink may seem like an interesting alternative to Golem as a dedicated Stealth Rock + Sunny Day lead with Sturdy. However, despite Carbink's much better typing and bulk to pull it off, Golem performs this role better to its much greater offensive presence and stronger Explosion. Sun hyper offense also isn't very notable of a playstyle.
Carbink (SS competitive strategy): Despite Carbink's good bulk, it is heavily outclassed by Cofagrigus, which has a greater utility movepool with Toxic Spikes and Will-O-Wisp and better offenses to circumvent its passivity. Carbink's multiple defensive weaknesses cause it to have a harder time setting up than one might expect, and it is too passive to threaten foes that are resistant or immune to Body Press such as Qwilfish and Galarian Rapidash. This set takes advantage of Carbink's good bulk with the combination of Iron Defense and Body Press. However, it is outclassed by Cofagrigus due to its inferior typing and passivity outside of Body Press. Cofagrigus's additional utility, with options like Knock Off and Will-O-Wisp, makes it more useful throughout the game outside of sweeping.
Carbink (SV competitive strategy): Carbink is not a fantastic Tera Captain. Regardless of this, it is frequently paired with high-tier Tera Captains as a cheap secondary Capitan that is able to Terastallize into a better defensive typing such as Water, Steel, or Fairy, allowing it to check certain foes. With such a typing or a boost to Body Press with Tera Fighting, Carbink can also somewhat effectively utilize Iron Defense sets. Carbink is a common final choice for drafts that are not lacking major parts. It is an emergency check to certain offensive threats along with having access to Spikes, Stealth Rock, and dual screens, making it appreciated by nearly all partners and able to fit on most fully rounded drafts.
Tapu Fini (SM competitive strategy): With its wonderful defensive typing and incredible ability, Tapu Fini is an immense support presence in the tier, being able to check threats like Ash-Greninja and Kommo-o and give its offensive teammates a layer of protection against opposing status. Its great utility movepool includes Defog, letting it clear entry hazards from the likes of Heatran and Ash-Greninja as it threatens them out, and Taunt, which allows Tapu Fini to pester defensive Pokemon like Chansey and Toxapex and further help it in preventing hazards. It can also give hyper offense teams a headache with an offensive Calm Mind set, forcing through the likes of Volcarona one-on-one with boosts. However, Tapu Fini's fatal flaw is its complete lack of consistent recovery, giving it a total reliance on its item for healing and subsequently a vulnerability to Knock Off, meaning it doesn't want to be tasked with handling the otherwise-walled Weavile. Additionally, being a grounded user of Defog has the downside of needing to take, upon switch-in, Stealth Rock, Spikes, and, worst of all, Toxic Spikes, which activate before Misty Terrain and ruin Tapu Fini permanently. Lastly, Tapu Fini isn't entirely safe to switch into Greninja and Kommo-o without prior scouting, as it can be nastily surprised by a Protean set wielding Gunk Shot from the former and Electrium Z or Poisonium Z sets of the latter. Surf is the best Water-type STAB for consistently chipping targets like Heatran and Victini, though Scald is a less consistent option that can be used to fish for burn against Pokemon that aren't protected by or interrupt Misty Terrain, such as Landorus-T and Tapu Bulu. Moonblast is crucial to threaten Ash-Greninja as well as others like Kommo-o and Weavile. Defog can be used on Tapu Fini when it can't be fit elsewhere on the team, allowing it to negate progress with entry hazards from Ash-Greninja and Heatran. Taunt has a wide variety of uses, such as blocking recovery and entry hazards from Chansey, Clefable, and Toxapex. Nature's Madness is another option that can be slotted on instead of Scald or Defog, brutally punishing a variety of targets including Ferrothorn and Assault Vest Magearna as they switch in. Nature's Madness pairs well with Taunt, as it then becomes massively threatening against the likes of Chansey and Clefable when Taunt can block their method of healing the damage off. Knock Off is a safe punishing option that can hurt the longevity of the likes of Celesteela, Ferrothorn, and opposing Tapu Fini by removing their Leftovers. 92 Defense EVs allow Tapu Fini to always survive +2 Acrobatics from Hawlucha after Stealth Rock, and 32 Special Attack EVs ensure that Moonblast OHKOes it after Stealth Rock. 16 Speed EVs are used to outpace Adamant Crawdaunt. The remaining EVs are put into Special Defense to best take on the likes of Ash-Greninja and Heatran. If Tapu Fini is paired with another Hawlucha answer, such as Zapdos, then it's free to shift its EVs around to hit 192 Speed, outspeeding Modest Heatran. Another option for an EV spread is a physically defensive set consisting of 248 HP / 156 Def / 40 SpD / 64 Spe with a Bold nature, suiting Tapu Fini to better handle physical threats like Mega Charizard X and Mega Lopunny, with the Defense EVs letting it survive two Zen Headbutts from Mega Medicham from full health with Leftovers recovery. 64 Speed EVs let Tapu Fini outspeed Adamant non-Mega Tyranitar. The biggest priority when using Tapu Fini is dodging Knock Off, as without a way to heal, it's virtually finished without Leftovers. The exceptions to this are if Tapu Fini is required to handle Weavile in a pinch or in certain situations where it's favorable enough to trade chip damage against the likes of Landorus-T. Greninja isn't easy at all; if you are unable to deduce whether the foe is Battle Bond or Protean Greninja from team preview and guess wrong, Tapu Fini will be severely damaged by Gunk Shot as it switches in. Grassium Z Heatran is equally as threatening, though once Heatran takes entry hazards and it's revealed to not have Leftovers, you know to be suspicious of it. Tapu Fini should be switched in frequently to set Misty Terrain to neuter opposing Scald and block Will-O-Wisp from the likes of Toxapex, Slowbro, and Rotom-W, providing safer entry for physical attackers like Weavile, Kartana, and Kyurem-B and assisting teammates that use contact moves like Mega Charizard X and the aforementioned Kartana by protecting them from Static from Zapdos and Flame Body from Volcarona. If Tapu Fini is your team's only Hawlucha check, you should generally not use it until it is needed, if possible, considering the small margin for chip damage afforded against +2 Acrobatics. When facing a Toxic Spikes setter with Tapu Fini as your team's Defogger, take note of the amount of turns of Misty Terrain remaining; you have to get Tapu Fini in to clear the Toxic Spikes before the Misty Terrain runs out, or it'll never be able to remove them without braving poison again. Tapu Fini primarily finds its home on fast-paced offense teams, which appreciate its immense short-term defensive prowess and especially the Misty Terrain it brings to the field. Physical attackers, including Weavile, Kyurem-B, Kartana, and Mega Scizor, are vitalized by a temporary immunity to burn as well as other effects like Toxic poison and paralysis, giving them bold entry opportunities against the likes of Toxapex, Seismitoad, Rotom-W, and Slowbro. Mega Charizard X is another attacker that appreciates Misty Terrain, as it can freely set up on Toxapex and Slowbro without fear of Toxic while it's active. Secondary or alternative Defoggers like Landorus-T and Kartana can either lift the pressure off of Tapu Fini in the face of Toxic Spikes Toxapex or free up a moveslot for it entirely. Fire-types like Heatran and either Mega Charizard forme can take care of Ferrothorn and other annoying Grass-types like Serperior and Choice-locked Kartana for Tapu Fini, with Tapu Fini providing them a safe switch into Ash-Greninja. Tapu Fini fits well on Mega Charizard Y teams as it's a Water-type that doesn't necessarily require a Water-type STAB move, which would be weakened, as well as its proficiency at weakening Toxapex and Chansey for Mega Charizard Y with its combination of Nature's Madness and Taunt. Holding onto its defensive utility that comes with its great typing and bulk, Tapu Fini's threat as a Calm Mind sweeper lies in how difficult it is to cleanly revenge kill, giving it a great matchup into offensive teams. Calm Mind allows Tapu Fini to boost up alongside and beat Volcarona and, combined with Taunt, turn Toxapex into setup fodder. The Special Defense boosts are great for blunting weaker special attacks like Volt Switch from Rotom-W and Magearna and Moonblast from Clefable. Surf is chosen over Scald due to the Base Power difference becoming more significant with boosts, with one notable advantage being that it cleanly OHKOes Swords Dance Gliscor after a Calm Mind boost and has much better odds to OHKO specially defensive Heatran at +2. Defog can be used over Taunt if Tapu Fini's team really can't fit it anywhere else, still maintaining a threat level without Taunt. 96 Speed EVs allow Tapu Fini to outspeed Jolly Crawdaunt and Modest Magearna. 216 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature ensure the 2HKO on Mega Scizor with +1 Surf after Stealth Rock. Wiki Berry synergizes great with this set's main strategy, allowing it to trade damage with the likes of Tapu Koko and Magearna and recoup health immediately. Leftovers is another viable option that sacrifices this to have more consistent early- and mid-game usage. Pokemon like Ash-Greninja and Heatran that Tapu Fini checks and threatens out make for a perfect opportunity to set up a free Calm Mind boost. A lot of offensive teams have to rely on Pokemon that can't safely switch directly into Tapu Fini, like Kartana and Tapu Koko, in order to threaten out Tapu Fini after it grabs an early Calm Mind boost, giving it an opportunity to take chunks out of slower pivots like Rotom-W and Magearna as they attempt to bring the revenge killers in. Although Toxapex seems like a straightforward matchup, Toxapex still holds the threat of burning Tapu Fini with Scald after the Terrain runs dry, so this interaction is not something you should charge headfirst into at the start of a match; a better idea is to wait until Toxapex's teammates are too weakened to safely take a hit once Toxapex is forced out by boosted attacks and Taunt. Although Tapu Fini is adept at trading off HP and spreading chip damage, it's best to avoid taking unnecessary hits like Rotom-W's Volt Switch if Tapu Fini's health needs to be preserved to defensively check Ash-Greninja or pose a late-game threat. This set fits well onto bulky offensive structures to give them some defensive solidity while also being a threat itself, improving their matchup against opposing offensive teams. Wallbreakers like Mega Charizard X and Kyurem-B can soften up the opposing team to give Tapu Fini an easier time making progress and vice versa, with both of these examples appreciating the temporary status immunity from Misty Terrain when dealing with the likes of Toxapex. Offensive Magearna sets, such as offensive Trick Room, make for interesting partners, as they appreciate Tapu Fini taking the heat off of them defensively against the likes of Greninja and Kommo-o, and they can work away at Fairy-type checks like opposing defensive Magearna, Celesteela, and Toxapex. Cresselia is a great teammate, as it can provide Lunar Dance support, instantly recouping Tapu Fini's HP and giving it more free reign for defensive usage and to trade HP early- to mid-game. Mega Heracross synergizes well with both Tapu Fini and the aforementioned Cresselia, appreciating Misty Terrain preventing Scald burns and Toxic from the likes of Toxapex and Chansey as it switches in as well as Trick Room from Cresselia. Whirlpool allows Tapu Fini to lock a passive Pokemon, like Toxapex or Chansey, into a one-on-one, forcibly removing them from the game when used in conjunction with Taunt and Nature's Madness. Taunt prevents healing attempts from Toxapex, Chansey, and Clefable and is essential to their removal. Nature's Madness is the main driving force of Tapu Fini's trapping operation, chipping down its targets with its repeated use. Moonblast is the finishing move in this sequence while giving this set more viability when its targets are not present and allowing Tapu Fini to check Choice Specs Greninja, Kommo-o, and Hawlucha. 64 Speed EVs allow Tapu Fini to outspeed Adamant non-Mega Tyranitar. 156 Defense EVs let Tapu Fini avoid the 2HKO from Mega Medicham's Zen Headbutt after Leftovers recovery. The remaining EVs are pooled into Special Defense, helping out Tapu Fini with special attackers like Ash-Greninja. Though a physically defensive spread is great for the likes of Mega Charizard X and Mega Lopunny, a specially defensive spread of 248 HP / 92 Def / 32 SpA / 120 SpD / 16 Spe with a Calm nature can be used instead, with the physical bulk letting Tapu Fini dodge the OHKO from +2 Acrobatics from Hawlucha after Stealth Rock, 32 Special Attack EVs ensuring Moonblast OHKOes Hawlucha after Stealth Rock, and 16 Speed EVs to outpace Adamant Crawdaunt. The remaining EVs are put into Special Defense to best take on the likes of Ash-Greninja and Heatran. Tapu Fini has lots of opportunity to switch in during a game using its stellar defensive typing to come in on resisted attacks from the likes of Greninja and Heatran, as well as using Misty Terrain to avoid status from Toxapex or Chansey to switch in unscathed. You should refrain from using Whirlpool until you are faced with one of the aforementioned targets, as revealing Whirlpool too early can dissuade them from switching in. Once Tapu Fini has imprisoned them with Whirlpool, use Taunt immediately, as any time wasted by the opponent being able to heal could result in Whirlpool running out of turns and setting the opposing Pokemon free. Use Nature's Madness until the opposing Pokemon is drained low enough to be finished off by Moonblast. It's important to note that Tapu Fini is essentially trading itself for Chansey due to the high amount of damage it can rack up in response with repeated Seismic Tosses, so consider whether you need Tapu Fini to check an opposing threat before trapping a target. Other than trapping, it supports its teammates with Misty Terrain and uses its defensive typing to handle the likes of Ash-Greninja. This variant is a great addition to offense and bulky offense teams, as Tapu Fini wants strong wallbreakers and efficient cleaners to take advantage of the holes it leaves with its forcible removal. Among the Pokemon that take advantage of a team missing Toxapex and Chansey are Mega Charizard Y and Volcarona; the former becomes a much more threatening wallbreaking presence and the latter is often left with little to stand up to its sweep. Kartana is a nice idea for a Defogger teammate, as it benefits greatly from Misty Terrain removing the threat of weak Scalds from the likes of Toxapex and Slowbro and adverse contact effects like Zapdos's Static and Volcarona's Flame Body. Heatran can handle Grass-types like Ferrothorn and Serperior for Tapu Fini and appreciates having Chansey and Toxapex handled by something else so that it can drop Taunt with less downsides. Tapu Fini can run a Choice Scarf set utilizing maximum Special Attack and Speed investment and Trick, using its Speed to either revenge kill or pick up surprise KOs against weakened threats like Tapu Koko and Mega Alakazam, with the extra option of crippling walls like Ferrothorn and Chansey with Trick. Surf is often the Water-type STAB move of choice for this set, giving Tapu Fini the extra power it wants to pick off the aforementioned offensive threats and hit the likes of Heatran and Gliscor harder. Icium Z in conjunction with Haze gives Tapu Fini a one-time burst of healing that can't be spoiled by item removal, though removing Tapu Fini's passive recovery puts it on an exploitable and often short timer.
Tapu Fini (SS competitive strategy): With a good typing and solid defenses, Tapu Fini is a strong defensive Pokemon that can check many of the metagame's offensive threats, such as Urshifu-R, Buzzwole, and Weavile, while supporting its own team with Misty Terrain, keeping them safe from status. Tapu Fini further supports its team with access to a handful of powerful utility moves, like Trick, allowing it to cripple opposing defensive Pokemon with a Choice Scarf set, and Taunt, which lets it take advantage of more passive foes to set up and shut down opposing setup sweepers. However, Tapu Fini lacks reliable recovery, only learning Draining Kiss, which is a significant Base Power downgrade from Moonblast, and Rest, which is blocked by Misty Terrain. This makes it reliant on Leftovers and susceptible to being chipped down if it loses them or opts for a Choice Scarf set, which can eventually lead to it being overwhelmed by the Pokemon that it is supposed to check, like Weavile and Urshifu-R. Additionally, many prominent metagame threats like Rillaboom, Kartana, and Tapu Koko pose a serious threat to Tapu Fini. With Calm Mind, Tapu Fini bolsters its already high Special Defense, helping it better check Pokemon like Tapu Lele and Dragapult after a couple of boosts. Scald can deter Rillaboom and Kartana from switching in with the threat of a burn. Draining Kiss helps keep Tapu Fini from being worn down, especially if it has lost its Leftovers. Taunt blocks the likes of Blissey and Toxapex from using healing moves in front of Tapu Fini, letting it use these Pokemon as setup fodder, while preventing Pokemon like Volcarona and Clefable from setting up in front of it. 64 Speed EVs allow Tapu Fini to outspeed Tyranitar, with the rest invested to maximize Tapu Fini's physical bulk. Tapu Fini fits well on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate its ability to check a variety of offensive threats. Ground-types like Garchomp and Landorus-T are necessary to check Electric-types like Zeraora and Tapu Koko, while Zapdos and Tornadus-T are appreciated to help against Rillaboom and Kartana. All of these in turn benefit from Tapu Fini being able to handle Weavile. Tapu Fini also struggles against Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Melmetal, so teammates like Magnezone and Heatran that can take care of them are needed. Additionally, Tapu Fini does not appreciate taking Knock Off because it relies on the weak Draining Kiss for recovery, so teammates that are less reliant on their items like Skarmory and Corviknight can be considered. Choice Scarf Tapu Fini acts as speed control that can also switch into threats like Urshifu-R and Barraskewda in the short-term. Trick has wonderful disruptive potential against passive switch-ins like Ferrothorn, Toxapex, and Gastrodon by limiting their move choices if the speed control of Choice Scarf is not needed. The final moveslot has a number of options. Taunt is the move of choice, as it prevents the likes of Ferrothorn and Blissey from setting up entry hazards or inflicting status with Thunder Wave or Toxic once Misty Terrain is inactive. This also amplifies the power of Trick, as Pokemon will be forced to Struggle if they are Taunted when Choice-locked. Calm Mind is a viable alternative that turns Tapu Fini into a bulky setup sweeper after using Trick. 252 Special Attack EVs allow Tapu Fini to OHKO Dragapult and Weavile, two of the main Pokemon that this set seeks to revenge kill. 216 Speed EVs are used to outspeed Jolly Dragonite at +1, while the remaining EVs are invested into HP to maximize bulk. Choice Scarf Tapu Fini fits well on teams that desire speed control that can also provide defensive utility. Wallbreakers that appreciate it forcing out the likes of Dragapult and Weavile make for good teammates, such as Blacephalon and Kartana. Kartana particularly appreciates Tapu Fini's Misty Terrain warding off status like burn from Scald and paralysis from Static. As Choice Scarf Tapu Fini does not have the bulk of its defensive sets, it requires a defensive backbone behind it to stave off opposing threats. Ferrothorn is a fantastic partner, as it can act as a Knock Off absorber against the dangerous Weavile as well as be the first line of defense against threats like Barraskewda and Crawdaunt. It can also wear down Tapu Fini's switch-ins, such as Gastrodon and opposing Ferrothorn, with Spikes. Ground-types like Landorus-T and Garchomp can check Electric-types like Zapdos and Zeraora, and they reduce pressure on Tapu Fini to switch into Heatran. Much like Kartana, Garchomp enjoys Misty Terrain preventing it from being statused by moves like Scald, Will-O-Wisp, and Toxic. Finally, switch-ins to faster Choice Scarf users that can threaten Tapu Fini are necessary due to Tapu Fini's middling Speed tier. Tornadus-T and Zapdos can stave off Grass-types like Rillaboom and Kartana while providing Defog support, which is important, as Choice Scarf Tapu Fini lacks any form of recovery. Heatran is a sturdy Tapu Lele and Blacephalon check that can also annoy Weavile if running Flame Body. Moreover, it can wear down Gastrodon with Toxic and threaten out Ferrothorn, helping Tapu Fini break through these checks. Attackers that benefit from Trick disrupting shared checks also make for good teammates, with Zapdos appreciating Gastrodon being locked into moves other than Toxic and Weavile enjoying setup opportunities afforded by Toxapex and Ferrothorn being locked into Recover and Spikes, respectively. By utilizing the combination of Whirlpool, Nature's Madness, and Taunt, Tapu Fini becomes an incredibly dangerous stallbreaker that can trap bulky Pokemon like Toxapex, Blissey, Clefable, Slowbro, and Slowking; stop them from healing; and force their removal from the game. Nature's Madness also has the benefit of punishing checks like Melmetal and Ferrothorn with heavy chip damage should they attempt to come in and force Tapu Fini out. Moonblast rounds out the moveset, allowing Tapu Fini to finish off these bulky Pokemon after putting them within KO range and check Dragapult, Garchomp, and Urshifu-R. The given EV spread allows Tapu Fini to avoid a 2HKO from Modest Choice Specs Dragapult's Shadow Ball after Stealth Rock and outpace Adamant Tyranitar, while the rest of its EVs are dumped into HP and Defense. Leftovers is necessary to extend Tapu Fini's longevity, allowing it to continue sticking around to handle the aforementioned targets. Tapu Fini is a valuable asset on offense and bulky offense teams, where it is tasked with breaking holes open and forcibly removing bulky targets for the benefit of its wallbreaking and sweeping teammates. Blacephalon and Volcarona greatly benefit from the removal of Blissey and Toxapex and Dragapult and Urshifu-R being forced out; the former becomes a much more menacing wallbreaker, while the latter sweeps through and cleans up the opposition without much standing in its way. A multitude of grounded physical attackers like Blaziken, Kartana, Weavile, and Garchomp synergize very well with Tapu Fini's Misty Terrain support, protecting them from status ailments like paralysis from Zapdos's Static and burns from Heatran's Flame Body and Toxapex and Slowbro's Scald. Much like Volcarona, they, except for Kartana, are also protected from Toxic from all of these Pokemon. Additionally, they can set up on targets weakened by Nature's Madness, such as Swords Dance Kartana taking advantage of the setup opportunities provided against a weakened Ferrothorn that cannot do much back in return. These physical attackers also benefit from Tapu Fini pressuring and removing their answers like Slowbro and Toxapex for Blaziken; Fire-types for Kartana; Buzzwole and Urshifu-R for Weavile; and Corviknight and Weavile for Garchomp. Weavile appreciates Tapu Fini weakening shared checks like Melmetal and Ferrothorn for it to clean up later in the game. In return, Blaziken takes on Grass-types that give Tapu Fini major trouble, like Rillaboom and Kartana, while Garchomp handles Electric-types like Zapdos and Tapu Koko. Dragonite also forms a strong partnership with Tapu Fini; while it can't take advantage of Misty Terrain due to its Flying typing, it makes up for this by easily handling the likes of Rillaboom and Kartana, and in return, Tapu Fini takes on Corviknight, Weavile, and Dragapult. Tapu Fini handling the latter also allows Dragonite to more easily run an Adamant nature over Jolly. Pivots like Tornadus-T, Landorus-T, Zeraora, and Zapdos are also beneficial, as they grant Tapu Fini free entry with U-turn and Volt Switch. Additionally, Tornadus-T and Zapdos check Rillaboom and Kartana and keep entry hazards off the field with Defog, while Landorus-T and Zeraora handle Electric-types like Tapu Koko and Zapdos and block Volt Switch thanks to their Electric immunity. Heatran sets up Stealth Rock, utilizes its solid special bulk to check Tapu Koko and Tapu Lele and make progress against them, aids Tapu Fini in pressuring Blissey and Toxapex, and benefits from Tapu Fini handling offensive Water-types like Urshifu-R, Barraskewda, and Crawdaunt. Tapu Fini can serve as an entry hazard remover with Defog, but it lacks recovery and doesn't run Heavy-Duty Boots, so other Defoggers like Corviknight are preferred. Tapu Fini can also opt to run Knock Off as a way to hinder opponents, but it tends to get more utility out of Taunt, as many of its common teammates, like Kartana and Weavile, already run Knock Off. Surf or Hydro Pump can be used over Scald for more power, but they trade off the potential to burn incoming Rillaboom, and, in the case of Hydro Pump, very reduced accuracy. Substitute is a niche option on Calm Mind sets to allow Tapu Fini to set up safely but comes at the cost of Taunt's utility. Ice Beam is another niche choice that can let Tapu Fini take Zapdos and Rillaboom switching in by surprise, but both of these Pokemon still outspeed and threaten Tapu Fini while recovering off damage through Roost or Grassy Terrain.
Tapu Fini (SV competitive strategy): Calm Mind Tapu Fini acts as a threatening wincon and defensive piece, answering common offensive threats such as Zamazenta, Urshifu-R, and Weavile with ease. Misty Surge allows it and its teammates to set up and pivot without fearing status. Draining Kiss, when coupled with Calm Mind, can turn Tapu Fini into a dangerous wincon that can damage and recover health against foes such as Alomomola and Slowbro. Taunt is used to deny recovery from foes such as Toxapex, pivoting from Galarian Slowking and Slowbro, and status such as Ferrothorn's Leech Seed as well as Toxapex's and Alomomola's Toxic after Misty Terrain has ended. 192 Speed EVs are used in order for Tapu Fini to outspeed maximum Speed Modest Heatran. Leftovers improves Tapu Fini's longevity across a game, making up for its lack of reliable recovery. Calm Mind Tapu Fini fits primarily on bulky offense teams, where its role as a bulky wincon and switch-in to Dark- and Fighting-types is appreciated. Teammates such as Gholdengo and Pecharunt that struggle with Dark-types like Weavile and Hisuian Samurott therefore appreciate Tapu Fini's defensive capabilities, with both in return providing a switch-in to Grass-types such as Rillaboom and Serperior. Other good partners include Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Heatran, both of which provide another Grass-type resistance, with the former being able to answer Ogerpon-W decently well; they also offer a Steel-type resistance against opposing Mega Scizor and Melmetal. In return, Tapu Fini provides a Fighting-type resistance to moves from foes such as Zamazenta and Urshifu-R. Tapu Fini also often finds breaking down Steel-types difficult, meaning teammates such as Zamazenta and Fire-types such as Volcarona are greatly appreciated. In exchange, Tapu Fini can switch in on and find setup opportunities against Water-types such as Toxapex and Slowbro that could otherwise prove troublesome. Tapu Fini struggles to break through Assault Vest Alomomola, making Ogerpon-W which can prevent it from gaining momentum and immediately threaten it with Power Whip, an excellent partner. In exchange, Tapu Fini can threaten Dragon-types like Dragonite that would otherwise be able to set up on Ogerpon-W. Another problem Tapu Fini can have is against Electric-types such as Tapu Koko and Raging Bolt, meaning Ground-types such as Ting-Lu and specially defensive Gliscor are excellent partners; in return, Tapu Fini provides an excellent Water-type resistance that helps against Urshifu-R and Scald Toxapex, neither of which the aforementioned Ground-types would want to stay in against. Tapu Fini is able to break through common Fighting-types such as Zamazenta and Great Tusk as well as Dark-types like Hisuian Samurott, meaning Dark-types such as Hisuian Samurott and Kingambit enjoy Tapu Fini's presence. Additionally, Tapu Fini's Misty Terrain makes them less vulnerable to burns from foes such as Toxapex and Moltres as well as Static from Zapdos. In exchange, these Dark-types can muscle their way through Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking and Slowbro, which Tapu Fini can otherwise struggle with. Fighting-types like Zamazenta, Urshifu-R, and Mega Lopunny that can break through Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Kartana also make good teammates, with Tapu Fini in return providing a soft check against foes such as Dragonite.
Basculegion (SV competitive strategy): Basculegion-M's solid Attack stat, supported by two amazing abilities and high-Base Power STAB moves, makes it one of the most potent wallbreakers available in the tier. An Adaptability-boosted Wave Crash is capable of doing immense damage to bulky walls like Registeel and Swampert and even gets good chip on bulky Water-resistant Pokemon like Milotic and Tsareena. Alternatively, Basculegion-M can opt for Swift Swim on rain teams, becoming an extremely menacing Pokemon that can outspeed and power through bulky and offensive teams alike. While not having much in terms of type coverage, Basculegion-M has access to a solid movepool. Most notably, access to Aqua Jet lets it act as a revenge killer, picking off faster Pokemon such as Cinccino, Infernape, and Munkidori with ease. However, the lack of a reliable physical Ghost-type STAB move hurts Basculegion-M greatly, making it susceptible to Pokemon that it otherwise would have a chance against, namely bulky Water-types such as Vaporeon and Gastrodon. Additionally, Basculegion-M's Speed is rather average, leaving it susceptible to being revenge killed by common Pokemon such as Kilowattrel and Brambleghast as well as Choice Scarf users like Infernape, Rotom-C, and Munkidori as well. Basculegion-M can opt for either a physical or special set, and they both come with their benefits and drawbacks. A physical set is more easily walled, but its Liquidation gets to come off its higher Attack. Additionally, Phantom Force being a two-turn attack means it may not always hit Basculegion-M's desired target, though it always gets a free turn of healing from Leftovers. On the other hand, a specially oriented Substitute Basculegion-M has access to reliable moves for both of its STAB types, isn't as held back by four-moveslot syndrome as physical sets are, and can surprise physical walls. However, this comes at a price of its noticeably lower Special Attack. Aqua Jet lets Basculegion-M safely pick off foes like Cinccino, Munkidori, and Infernape at low health, ensuring neither it nor its Substitute takes damage. Endeavor capitalizes on Substitute lowering Basculegion-M's HP, letting it cut down the HP of walls that it can struggle with like Vaporeon, Avalugg, and Amoonguss. On the other hand, Pain Split lets Basculegion-M simply recover some HP while simultaneously dealing damage. Leftovers is preferred, since it provides passive healing, mitigating Substitute's impact on Basculegion-M's HP. However, Metronome can capitalize on Substitute giving Basculegion-M free turns, letting it continually attack and more easily beat Vaporeon and Gastrodon, and Heavy-Duty Boots means Basculegion-M doesn't need to worry about constant chip damage from entry hazards, though this forces Basculegion-M to run Pain Split if it wishes to have any form of recovery. Jolly and Timid natures can also be used so that Basculegion-M outspeeds Tsareena, Breloom, and Toxicroak, but the wallbreaking power of Adamant and Modest is typically better. Tera Water increases the power of both Liquidation and Surf, letting Basculegion-M break through walls more easily, while Tera Dark allows it to take Ghost-type attacks from Chandelure and opposing Basculegion-M as well as Dark-type moves like Incineroar's Knock Off if necessary. Gastrodon and Roar Vaporeon are the main roadblocks for Basculegion-M, so partners that can help pressure them like Breloom, Toxicroak, and Freeze-Dry Alolan Ninetales make for good pairings. In return, Basculegion-M can whittle down Amoonguss for Breloom as well as take care of Galarian Slowbro and Bronzong for Toxicroak and Alolan Ninetales. Pivots like Munkidori, Flygon, and Whimsicott that draw in Pokemon that Basculegion-M can set Substitute on and take advantage of, like Bronzong, Vaporeon, and Toxicroak, are greatly appreciated, though Basculegion-M must be cautious of Toxicroak's Knock Off sets. Substitute Basculegion-M sets excel at weakening defensive Water-resistant Pokemon like Amoonguss, Milotic, and Tentacruel, meaning it can pave the way for partners like Flygon, Incineroar, and Paldean Tauros-F. Avalugg is often a hard check to get past for Basculegion-M, but specially oriented sets are good at luring it in and dealing great damage. This can be capitalized on by physical attackers like Overqwil, Scyther, and Flygon. Faster Ghost-types such as Hisuian Typhlosion, Chandelure, and Brambleghast can be problematic for Basculegion-M, causing Ghost-resistant and -immune teammates like Incineroar, Scrafty, Porygon2, and Dudunsparce to be necessary. Powerful Grass-, Electric-, and Dark-type Pokemon like Breloom, Kilowattrel, and Incineroar can stop Basculegion-M from keeping up its Substitute, so checks to these Pokemon such as Amoonguss, Bellibolt, and Diancie make for good partners. Liquidation acts as a recoil-free alternative to Wave Crash at the cost of lower power. This is especially useful late-game, where Basculegion-M can wreck through weakened foes while still maintaining some health as to not be too vulnerable to revenge killers. Alternatively, Aqua Jet has more use outside of rain, being a useful priority tool to revenge kill faster Pokemon like Infernape, Munkidori, and Cinccino. For Basculegion-M's last move, it tends to opt for Tera Blast alongside Tera Ghost, as it gifts Basculegion-M a powerful and reliable physical Ghost-type STAB move to hit Water-resistant and -immune Pokemon like Vaporeon, Toxicroak, Milotic, and Tsareena. However, it forces Basculegion-M to Terastallize, so it can be off-putting at times as an option. Because of this, Psychic Fangs can be used as alternative to hit Vaporeon neutrally while also hitting checks like Toxicroak and Amoonguss super effectively. Ice Fang is another option that hits Dragon- and Grass-types like Dragalge, Tsareena, and Amoonguss attempting to switch into Basculegion-M's Water-type attacks. If not running Tera Blast, Tera Water can further boost Basculegion-M's already monstrous offensive profile, letting it 2HKO bulky Water-resistant Pokemon such as Dragalge, Amoonguss, and Tsareena with Wave Crash. Choice Band Basculegion-M is a premier threat on rain teams thanks to its immense power and Swift Swim boosting its Speed. As a result, rain setters such as Klefki and Tornadus are necessary picks. In addition to setting rain, the former has access to a vast array of utility moves such as Thunder Wave, which cripples Choice Scarf users like Infernape and Inteleon, and Spikes, while the latter can use rain itself to break through Grass-types like Amoonguss, Wo-Chien, and Tsareena. Other Swift Swim Pokemon such as Kingdra, Overqwil, and Ludicolo have solid synergy with Basculegion-M. Kingdra can overwhelm Vaporeon, Toxicroak, and Dragalge, making it less needed for Basculegion-M to Terastallize to hit these Pokemon. Overqwil can function as a late-game cleaner that appreciates Basculegion-M's insane wallbreaking letting it finish off games more easily, as it's able to finish off weakened foes. Ludicolo's Grass-type STAB moves and Ice-type coverage can be monumental in turning the tides against bulky Water-, Grass-, and Dragon- types like Gastrodon, Vaporeon, Amoonguss, and Dragalge. Other entry hazard setters such as Gligar, Flygon, and Swampert make for good teammates, further bolstering Basculegion-M's wallbreaking capabilities. Aqua Jet gives Mystic Water sets a way to pick off faster Pokemon like Chandelure, Cinccino, and Munkidori, while Liquidation helps out Choice Scarf sets by providing a less risky version of Wave Crash with more PP and no recoil. Aqua Jet can even find use on Choice Scarf variants as a means to combat faster Choice Scarf users like Munkidori. Psychic Fangs provides solid coverage, hitting Poison-types that can take Water-type moves like Dragalge, Toxicroak, and Amoonguss. Ice Fang instead targets Grass- and Dragon-types like Tsareena, Amoonguss, Flygon, and Dragalge, albeit being weaker into the aforementioned Poison-type Pokemon. Mystic Water in tandem with Adaptability makes Basculegion-M's Water-type STAB moves extremely menacing while allowing it to switch its moves. This is further boosted by Tera Water, which makes Basculegion-M's Water-type attacks monstrously strong, doing immense damage to even the bulkiest of physically defensive Pokemon like Avalugg. Alternatively, Choice Scarf patches up Basculegion-M's otherwise average Speed and makes it a formidable revenge killer in its own right. Despite this, Basculegion-M's average Speed stat prevents it from being consistent as a revenge killer, as other Choice Scarf users such as Flygon, Infernape, Munkidori, and Porygon-Z can effectively outspeed and threaten it. All-out attacker Basculegion-M benefits many balance, bulky offense, and offense teams thanks to its ability to easily wallbreak and, if carrying Choice Scarf, its surprise factor as well. Entry hazard setters like Flygon, Swampert, and Diancie can set up Stealth Rock and Spikes, whittling down foes for Basculegion-M to more easily overwhelm. Hazard removal from the likes of Cinccino, Avalugg, and Tsareena is heavily appreciated, increasing Basculegion-M's longevity and making it more capable offensively late-game. Basculegion-M tends to draw in bulky Water- and Grass-types like Vaporeon, Amoonguss, Gastrodon, and Tsareena. As a result, offensive Pokemon that can capitalize on these foes, namely Toxicroak, Incineroar, Rotom-C, and Staraptor, can form potent wallbreaking cores with Basculegion-M. Additionally, the last three Pokemon can reliably bring Basculegion-M in with their pivot moves, giving Basculegion-M an easier time entering battle. Dark-types like Incineroar, Alolan Muk, Scrafty, and Bombirdier can counteract opposing Dark- and Ghost-types and use their presence as an opportunity to generate offensive momentum through pivoting, wearing down foes over time with Knock Off, and, in the case of the first two, status. Setup Pokemon that can boost Speed such as Dragon Dance Flygon and Tidy Up Cinccino, as well as those that increase their physical bulk like Iron Defense Registeel and Bulk Up Scrafty, can pose a problem to Choice Scarf Basculegion-M, as either Basculegion-M's average Speed stat or the lack of an additional power boost can let it down against these threats. Thus, Pokemon that can check these foes such as Orthworm, Chandelure, and Sylveon are appreciated, providing some solid defensive backbone for Basculegion-M to fall back upon. In return, these Pokemon heavily appreciate Basculegion-M's strong offensive presence. A mixed attacking Assault Vest set can function as a decent bulky offensive pivot, leveraging Basculegion-M's solid special bulk against common special attackers like Munkidori. However, Basculegion-M's typing leaves it vulnerable to common special attackers such as Chandelure, Kilowattrel, and Rotom-C, making its defensive use somewhat inconsistent. Additionally, the lack of reliable recovery makes it prone to being chipped down over time, forcing it to be paired with a Wish user and making it much less efficient into common threats. Choice Specs Basculegion-M is a decent option, with its stronger coverage options in Shadow Ball and Ice Beam, alongside Adaptability, compensating for its otherwise middling Special Attack stat. This set can threaten typical counterplay to physical Basculegion-M sets such as Vaporeon, Toxicroak, Dragalge, and Amoonguss with either Shadow Ball or Ice Beam.
Iron Boulder (SV competitive strategy): Swords Dance Iron Boulder is a usable setup sweeper and speed control in the current metagame, outspeeding already fast and common threats like Booster Energy Iron Valiant and Iron Moth. Earthquake lets it hit Gholdengo, Pecharunt, and Kingambit. Zen Headbutt can be used to improve the matchup against Great Tusk and Zamazenta while hitting Pecharunt harder as well as provide a reliable means of revenge killing Iron Valiant. Close Combat targets Ting-Lu and Kingambit much harder. Tera Blast Fairy is also an option to nail Great Tusk and Zamazenta while giving it a crucial defensive typing for easier setups and take on Kingambit's Sucker Punch. Substitute is also a viable option to ease Iron Boulder's matchup versus Sucker Punch from Kingambit, with the added benefit of letting it avoid status like Thunder Wave from Galarian Slowking and Will-O-Wisp from Galarian Weezing as it sets up. However, its main use case is with Tera Flying, as the combination allows Iron Boulder to circumvent Gliscor—which otherwise would be a solid check—and turn it into setup fodder by avoiding both Toxic and Earthquake. Running Taunt over Substitute is also an option; aside from still beating Gliscor one-on-one with Tera Flying, it also allows Iron Boulder to overwhelm Skarmory by preventing its Iron Defense and Roost attempts. Tera Fighting boosts the power of Close Combat, notably helping Iron Boulder brute force its way past Skarmory, while also allowing it to OHKO Ting-Lu after a Swords Dance. It also provides a Sucker Punch resistance, which helps versus Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott. Tera Ground can be used to boost the power of Earthquake, guaranteeing the OHKO on bulkier variants of Gholdengo at +2 as well as helping Iron Boulder avoid being picked off by Raging Bolt's Thunderclap. Iron Boulder's power and its top-tier speed, alongside its good coverage and access to Swords Dance, make it very suitable for hyper offense teams. Teammates such as Kingambit appreciate the weakening of shared checks such as Landorus-T and Skarmory. The same goes for Iron Moth but with Ting-Lu and Gliscor. Iron Valiant also appreciates Gliscor being weakened and can whittle down shared checks such as Gholdengo to make it easier for Iron Boulder to sweep later. Iron Boulder struggles with entry hazard damage putting it in KO range of priority moves such as Kingambit’s Sucker Punch and Rillaboom’s Grassy Glide after Tera. Teammates that are effective at keeping hazards off your side such as Taunt Deoxys-S, Glimmora, Hatterene, or Great Tusk are good partners. The first two also provide their own hazards, facilitating the weakening of Iron Boulder's checks. Iron Boulder also has difficulty overcoming Dondozo. Partners that can weaken it or take advantage of it, such as Kingambit or Ogerpon-W, respectively, are good partners.
Iron Moth (SV competitive strategy): With its great Special Attack, good Speed augmented by Booster Energy, and a long list of coverage moves to pick from, Iron Moth becomes one of OU's premier offensive threats. Iron Moth not only acts as a revenge killer but also can quickly snowball as a sweeper with Fiery Dance's boosts, plus it offers defensive utility for its team by absorbing Toxic Spikes and checking the likes of Iron Valiant, Enamorus, Rillaboom, and Gholdengo. Dazzling Gleam may be used to hit the likes of Dragapult, Hisuian Samurott, and Dragonite; its power may be augmented by Tera Fairy to score OHKOs against Dragapult and Hisuian Samurott. Tera Fairy also provides Iron Moth a resistance to revenge kill attempts via Kingambit's and Hisuian Samurott's Sucker Punch and an immunity to Dragon-type moves such as Dragapult's Dragon Darts and Raging Bolt's Draco Meteor. Tera Blast Ground may be used to target the likes of Ceruledge, Heatran, and Galarian Slowking, with Tera Ground denying crippling attempts from Thunder Wave Galarian Slowking and revenge killing from Thunderclap Raging Bolt. Tera Blast Water is an alternative that targets the aforementioned Fire-types as well as Moltres and Gliscor, and Tera Water turns Iron Moth's Water weakness into a resistance, denying revenge killing attempts from the likes of Primarina's Surf and Walking Wake's Hydro Steam. Energy Ball is another option to hit the likes of Alomomola, Dondozo, and Garganacl, with Tera Grass providing the extra power to OHKO Great Tusk; furthermore, Tera Grass's resistance to Earthquake greatly improves Iron Moth's matchup against Ting-Lu, which it can 2HKO with Energy Ball after one Fiery Dance Boost. Psychic is an option to hit Glimmora, Toxapex, Clodsire, and opposing Iron Moth. Substitute may be used to leverage the switches that Iron Moth usually forces; deny revenge killing attempts from Kingambit's Sucker Punch and Raging Bolt's Thunderclap; block status moves such as Galarian Slowking's Thunder Wave; and take advantage of Garganacl's Salt Cure, which does not break Substitute after Iron Moth Terastallizes. Similarly, Toxic Spikes may be used to let Iron Moth take advantage of a free turn, further aiding its teammates and crippling foes that would usually try to take it on such as Ting-Lu, Assault Vest Alomomola, and Tyranitar. Whirlwind may also be used alongside Toxic Spikes to more easily force poison on these Pokemon and to phaze slower foes that may try to phaze Iron Moth itself, such as Roar Zamazenta and Whirlwind Ting-Lu. On sun teams, Iron Moth may run Solar Beam to further pressure the likes of Ting-Lu and Garganacl or Morning Sun to remain healthy. Tera Ghost grants Iron Moth an immunity to Dragonite's Extreme Speed and Blissey's Seismic Toss, denying revenge killing attempts from the former while potentially letting it wall the latter; when running Tera Ghost, Tera Blast may be considered to hit Dragapult, Galarian Slowking, and Ceruledge. Maximum Speed and only 132 Special Attack EVs allow Iron Moth to attain a Speed boost with Booster Energy, getting the jump on otherwise faster foes such as Deoxys-S and Dragapult; the remaining 124 EVs are allocated in Defense to make up for Iron Moth's poor physical bulk. Maximum Special Attack and Speed may also be considered, as Booster Energy will now augment Iron Moth's sky-high Special Attack, which is particularly appreciated on teams that don't need the extra Speed, such as Sticky Web teams. Iron Moth is usually found on offense teams, with their fast-paced style reducing the negative effect of Booster Energy's one-time use. Physical attackers such as Dragonite and Zamazenta appreciate Iron Moth's good matchup against physical walls such as Pecharunt, Galarian Weezing, Clefable, and even Iron Defense Zamazenta to an extent, as Iron Moth outspeeds it and resists its Body Press; in turn, they can take on Heatran and Ting-Lu, which trouble Iron Moth. Similarly, Great Tusk, Ting-Lu, and Landorus-T can check Heatran, Glimmora, and Galarian Slowking while benefiting from Iron Moth's good matchup against Corviknight, RIllaboom, and Ogerpon; these Pokemon also provide entry hazards to soften foes for Iron Moth, with Great Tusk and Landorus-T removing hazards that chip Iron Moth or preventing setup of such with Rapid Spin and Taunt, respectively. Ogerpon-W and Rillaboom appreciate Iron Moth checking Galarian Weezing, Pecharunt, and Hydrapple for them,and they may chip at the likes of Dragonite so that Iron Moth has an easier time cleaning late-game. Special attackers like Gholdengo and Deoxys-S may be paired with Iron Moth to weaken shared checks such as Ting-Lu and Assault Vest Hisuian Samurott. Similarly, Iron Valiant can pressure shared checks in Assault Vest Primarina and Galarian Slowking, while Iron Moth handles Gholdengo, Clefable, and Scizor, which may trouble Iron Valiant. Iron Moth often finds itself on sun and Sticky Web teams, where Raging Bolt also shines; not only does Raging Bolt weaken shared checks such as Ting-Lu and Clodsire, but it also takes on Assault Vest Alomomola and Hisuian Samurott. Walking Wake and Slither Wing also often find themselves on sun teams and appreciate Iron Moth's ability to take on Fairy-types such as Iron Valiant and Enamorus, while they are able to threaten Iron Moth checks such as Heatran and Ting-Lu, as well as Blissey in Slither Wing's case.
Wishiwashi (SS competitive strategy): Wishiwashi's amazing bulk and low Speed make it the best pivot in PU and a great glue option for many teams. It can switch into attacks from many common threats such as Doublade and Sandslash and either threaten them out with its high offensive stats or safely bring in a frailer teammate. Furthermore, Wishiwashi's ability to maintain momentum makes it much easier to fit onto teams than other bulky Water-types such as Jellicent and Quagsire, though it loses out on their better defensive typing, reliable recovery, and utility options. Schooling can be a large issue for Wishiwashi, especially since it's reliant on Rest for recovery and the gamble that is Sleep Talk. Lastly, despite Wishiwashi's high bulk, common Electric- and Grass-types like Magneton and Trevenant can easily threaten it out. Scald can hit decently hard and can be used to stop Wishiwashi from being setup fodder for Pokemon like Swords Dance Sneasel and Doublade. Rest is important to minimize the chance of the Schooling deactivating while also increasing Wishiwashi's longevity. The set can alternatively be run with maximum Special Defense and Sassy nature or a mixed spread, giving it a better matchup against special Pokemon like Charizard and Meteor Beam Archeops. The 4 Speed EVs allow Wishiwashi to creep uninvested Gigalith despite the Speed-negating nature, although 0 Speed IVs are also an option to make Wishiwashi an even slower pivot. Wishiwashi is a great check against many offensive and defensive Pokemon like Sandslash and Weezing, so it can be brought in to endure their hits while weakening and potentially crippling them with a burn before pivoting to a teammate like Trevenant or Gallade to give them a chance to KO or set up. Wishiwashi can also be paired with other pivot users like Archeops and Magneton to maintain momentum while wearing down the foes. Because of Wishiwashi's weaknesses to Electric- and Grass-types such as Vikavolt and offensive Eldegoss, their respective checks like Gigalith and Charizard make for good teammates.
Garganacl (SV competitive strategy): Garganacl is an exceptional Stealth Rock setter and wall thanks to its great bulk, amazing ability in Purifying Salt, and access to Salt Cure. As a setter, Garganacl is very good at outlasting and pressuring common removal options like non-Leftovers Great Tusk, Corviknight, and Iron Treads with Salt Cure. Protect also stalls turns, which works well in conjunction with Salt Cure and allows Garganacl to chip its foes as much as possible; it's also useful at scouting moves from foes such as Choice Band Dragapult, Lokix, and Meowscarada and maximizing passive recovery from Leftovers. However, Ice Punch is a niche option to immediately nail Hydrapple and Gliscor, as they can be huge threats in the balance mirrors in general and shrug off Salt Cure's passive damage with Regenerator and Poison Heal. Additionally, the move also lets Garganacl chunk foes like Meowscarada, Dragapult, and Latios immediately. Heavy-Duty Boots is an option on teams with little to no hazard removal at the cost of crucial Leftovers recovery. 52 Defense EVs allow Garganacl to survive Ogerpon-W's Power Whip, and the rest of the EVs are invested in HP and Special Defense to maximize its special bulk to help it take on threats such as Dragapult in a better fashion. Tera Fairy enables it to handle threats such as Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Dragapult better; in addition, the Grass neutrality helps it against foes like Rillaboom, Ogerpon-W, and Meowscarada. Tera Water helps it against foes like Gholdengo and Water-types like Barraskewda and Hisuian Samurott. Both of these Tera types are useful at handling non-Swords Dance Gliscor as well, as Garganacl also acts as a Toxic absorber. Garganacl fits well on bulky offense and balance teams that need a bulky entry hazard setter; Salt Cure is great at making progress for its teammates to capitalize on. Setup sweepers such as Kingambit, Weavile, and Nasty Plot Gholdengo appreciate Garganacl's ability to chip and force damage on the opposing team with Stealth Rock and Salt Cure, especially against threats such as Skarmory and Primarina. In return, they offensively pressure Garganacl's switch-ins such as Galarian Slowking, Rillaboom, and Clefable, as it's reliant on Salt Cure for damage and is thus very passive. Gholdengo also deserves a special mention because of its ability to block hazard removal attempts from foes like Great Tusk and Corviknight. Garganacl also forms amazing cores with Spikes setters such as Gliscor, Hisuian Samurott, and Skarmory, further helping its offensive teammates by dominating the hazard game. Moreover, Gliscor and Skarmory also help it in checking Ground- and Fighting-types like Landorus-T and Zamazenta. Knock Off users such as Clefable and the aforementioned Weavile are also good teammates due to removing Heavy-Duty Boots from foes such as Galarian Slowking and Dondozo; removing Leftovers from foes like Zamazenta and Ting-Lu is also useful so that they take maximum damage from Salt Cure and Stealth Rock. In addition, Clefable and the aforementioned Gliscor also support Garganacl by acting as Knock Off absorbers, as Garganacl likes to keep its Leftovers intact—Protect and Leftovers form a strong combination that makes Garganacl very tough to break down. Galarian Slowking also makes a great partner that supports Garganacl with Future Sight, punishing Fighting-types such as Zamazenta and Iron Valiant, as well as providing pivoting support with Chilly Reception. Garganacl also appreciates hazard removal support, as its foes such as Gliscor, Clefable, and Ting-Lu may use it as fodder for setting up hazards, especially Spikes; as such, Pokemon like Great Tusk make nice teammates. Due to its relatively poor base typing, Garganacl is weak to a variety of threats including Great Tusk, Iron Valiant, Kingambit, and Ogerpon-W; thus, partners such as Ogerpon-W, Skeledirge, Zamazenta, and Dragapult, respectively, are appreciated. Rillaboom also synergizes well with Garganacl, as its Grassy Terrain can weaken Earthquake from foes like Great Tusk, Ting-Lu, and Gliscor for Garganacl as well as helping it deal with Pokemon like Ogerpon-W and Barraskewda; in return, Garganacl supports Rillaboom with hazard and deals with foes like Iron Moth for it. Garganacl's incredible defensive stats and access to Salt Cure make it a potent Curse user, letting it beat threatening physical attackers such as Weavile and Dragon Dance Dragonite while acting as a pseudo-sweeper. Earthquake lets Garganacl hit threats such as Gholdengo, Raging Bolt, and Galarian Slowking, with its high-Base Power giving Garganacl offensive presence so it doesn't have to rely solely on Salt Cure for damage, which is especially useful since Raging Bolt commonly runs Leftovers and Galarian Slowking's Regenerator can mitigate Salt Cure damage as well. 52 Defense EVs lets Garganacl survive Ogerpon-W's Power Whip without the need for Curse boosts or Terastallization. Tera Water turns Garganacl's Water weakness into a resistance, letting it better handle Water-types such as Barraskewda and Hisuian Samurott. It also lets Garganacl check offensive Steel-types such as Gholdengo, with Purifying Salt letting it resist Shadow Ball. On the other hand, Tera Fairy gives Garganacl an immunity to Draco Meteor from Dragapult as well as Dragon Pulse from Raging Bolt. It also grants Garganacl a resistance to Fighting-type moves from Pokemon such as Zamazenta and Great Tusk and removes its Grass weakness, improving its matchup against Meowscarada. Both options remove Garganacl's weakness to Ground-type moves, letting it better handle foes that rely on Earthquake for coverage such as Dragonite. Garganacl fits well on bulky offense or balance teams. Due to not running Heavy-Duty Boots, Garganacl appreciates entry hazard removal from the likes of Great Tusk and Corviknight; Great Tusk in particular appreciates Garganacl checking spinblockers such as Dragapult and, with Tera Water, Gholdengo. Rillaboom makes for a great partner thanks to Garganacl appreciating the recovery from Grassy Terrain, which alleviates entry hazard chip damage, as well as the reduction in Earthquake's damage, letting it check Pokemon like Dragonite better. It should be noted that Garganacl's own Earthquake will deal less damage as a result of Grassy Terrain and Salt Cure's chip damage will be mitigated by Grassy Terrain's healing when combined with Leftovers, however. As Substitute blocks Salt Cure, Pokemon that can punish the use of the move, such as Encore Dragonite, Infiltrator Dragapult, and Whirlwind Ting-Lu, are appreciated teammates. Ogerpon-W makes for a great partner with Garganacl thanks to Water Absorb and its ability to force Ground-types like Gliscor out with Ivy Cudgel. It can also punish Substitute with Encore and remove items like Leftovers and Heavy-Duty Boots with Knock Off, accentuating the chip damage done by Salt Cure. In exchange, it appreciates Garganacl deterring defensive Pokemon like Skarmory with Salt Cure, as well as its ability to handle Dragon-types like Dragonite and Dragapult. Unaware Clefable forms a good defensive core with Garganacl, denying other setup sweepers the opportunity to set up on Garganacl while also appreciating its ability to absorb status from Pokemon like Galarian Slowking, Dragapult and Skeledirge. Garganacl also benefits from Clefable's ability to check Ting-Lu. Opposing Clefable can check Garganacl with both of its abilities, so Pokemon that can dispatch it, like Gholdengo and Heatran, make for good partners. Garganacl also enjoys Knock Off and hazard support, as the removal of items like Heavy-Duty Boots and the additional chip from hazards makes it harder to play around due to the chip damage from Salt Cure having more of an impact on Pokemon like Galarian Slowking, Alomomola, and Ting-Lu. Gliscor has access to Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Knock Off while also resisting Ground-type moves; in exchange, Garganacl checks Hex Dragapult, one of Gliscor's best checks. Finally, specially defensive Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking and Clodsire appreciate Garganacl's physical walling capabilities while making up for its inability to consistently handle special attackers like Primarina and Enamorus. With fantastic bulk, Salt Cure, Purifying Salt's status immunity, the combination of Iron Defense and Body Press, and reliable recovery, Garganacl establishes itself as a potent win condition. Iron Defense lets Garganacl boost its Defense to nearly unbreakable levels. Body Press allows Garganacl to threaten the likes of Kingambit, Ting-Lu, and Weavile, and with Iron Defense boosts, Garganacl's Body Press becomes more threatening, 2HKOing the likes of Iron Treads and Kyurem after just one boost. In tandem with Salt Cure, Gliscor can eventually be beaten with enough Iron Defense boosts. Salt Cure pressures would-be switch-ins like Ogerpon-W, Gholdengo, and Dondozo. Leftovers adds even more to Garganacl's excellent survivability, allowing it to conserve valuable Recover PP, further complemented by Iron Defense boosts that enhance its ability to take physical attacks. Tera Water allows Garganacl to resist Steel- and Water-type moves that threaten it, such as Make It Rain, Tachyon Cutter, Razor Shell, and Ivy Cudgel from Gholdengo, Iron Crown, Hisuian Samurott, and Ogerpon-W, respectively. It also removes Garganacl's weakness to Ground-type moves, making it even harder for Great Tusk and Dragonite to break through it. Tera Electric grants a Steel resistance while lacking weaknesses, and the singular Ground weakness it has is offset by most Ground-type attacks being physical, which, with Iron Defense boosts, can be offset. However, Ground-type coverage from Enamorus and Kyurem still threatens Garganacl. Tera Fairy removes Garganacl's weakness to Fighting, though Pokemon that use Fighting-type attacks can hit it with other attacks, like Psycho Boost from Deoxys-S. Its main benefit comes from the fact that Fairy is a generally good defensive typing that doesn't give Garganacl many other weaknesses. It grants a Dark resistance, which is useful for Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott, and Dragon immunity, useful against Raging Bolt and Walking Wake. Garganacl fits on balance and bulky offense teams that can support its Iron Defense sweeps and cover its vulnerability to entry hazards. Hazards set by Ting-Lu, Ogerpon-W, and Clefable complement Garganacl's Salt Cure pressure and the switches it forces with Iron Defense boosting. Ogerpon-W in particular can pressure Great Tusk, Gliscor, and Ting-Lu, allowing Garganacl to preserve HP for other physical threats, and can function as a pivot by virtue of forcing out these Ground-types and using U-turn to bring Garganacl in safely or as a wallbreaker that threatens Hatterene and Calm Mind Clefable, both of which Garganacl struggles against. In return, Garganacl can take on Dragapult and, if Garganacl Terastallizes, Dragonite, both of which can check Ogerpon-W. Great Tusk and Iron Treads synergize nicely with Garganacl, as their Rapid Spin does not clear away hazards set by other teammates such as Ogerpon-W and Clefable. In return, Garganacl checks Dragapult and Zapdos for Great Tusk and Fire-types such as Cinderace and Ceruledge for Iron Treads. Gholdengo checks many of Garganacl's difficult matchups, such as Clefable, Hatterene, Galarian Slowking, and Galarian Weezing, which all threaten or cripple Garganacl. Defoggers such as Corviknight and Galarian Weezing are great partners as well, as both can compress the roles of hazard remover and check to Rillaboom, Ogerpon-W, and Zamazenta, which greatly threaten this Garganacl set without any Defense boosts. While they don't remove hazards, Moltres, Tornadus-T, and Dragapult can all similarly function as checks to some of the aforementioned Pokemon as well as to other Grass-types such as Hydrapple and Sinistcha, while Garganacl checks Zapdos for the first two and Choice Scarf Enamorus for the latter. While this Garganacl set fully invests in Special Defense, special walls such as Galarian Slowking and Ting-Lu can cover for special attackers such as Raging Bolt, Iron Crown, and Gholdengo that would greatly weaken Garganacl otherwise.
Mr Rime (SS competitive strategy): Mr. Rime is listed as unviable because of its lack of support moves coupled with its mediocre Speed tier making it entirely outclassed by bulkier entry hazard removers such as Cryogonal and Articuno, which have Knock Off and U-turn, respectively, unlike Mr. Rime. Offensively, Jynx does everything better than it as a special attacker on top of having access to Nasty Plot and Lovely Kiss. Mr. Rime is an offensive entry hazard remover with reliable recovery and Future Sight to support its teammates. However, Jynx is preferred offensively because it has the Speed and power to work around its lackluster typing, while Articuno and Cryogonal are preferred defensively because of their better overall stats and support movepools.
Sawk (BW competitive strategy): does not allow it to outpace out other common offensive threats, such as Tauros and Charizard. Bullet Punch from Metang won't take it out alone. Finally, Swellow can KO Sawk easily, though it cannot outspeed Choice
Sawk (XY competitive strategy): Sawk is a fantastic wallbreaker in RU thanks to its great STAB in Close Combat and wide array of coverage moves that make it extremely threatening against defensive teams. Furthermore, it has a decent Speed stat, allowing it to outspeed all defensive Pokemon in the tier such as Uxie and Venusaur, as well as some offensive ones such as Medicham and Meloetta. Sawk also has a good ability in Sturdy, allowing Sawk to take any one hit and retaliate, making it especially dangerous for offensive teams and a great revenge killer too. However, Sawk faces stiff competition from other offensive Fighting-types such as Hitmonlee. It is also relatively frail and, as a result, it is susceptible to being revenge killed, which is compounded by its less than stellar Speed stat that leaves it outsped by offensive Pokemon such as Flygon, Rotom, and Delphox. Close Combat is Sawk's main STAB move and severely dents even Pokemon neutral to it. Knock Off deals with Psychic- and Ghost-types such as Uxie and Jellicent, which resist or are immune to Close Combat, in addition to providing useful utility in depriving the foe of its item. Poison Jab targets Fairy-types such as Granbull, Togetic, and Aromatisse, which resist both Close Combat and Knock Off. Zen Headbutt hits Poison-types such as Weezing, Venusaur, and Qwilfish. Choice Band greatly improves Sawk's damage output, making it a fearsome wallbreaker. An Adamant nature in tandem with maximum Attack investment makes Sawk extremely powerful, as it needs all the power it can get, while 252 Speed EVs make Sawk as fast as possible. Sturdy allows Sawk to take any one hit and retaliate. A Jolly nature is generally preferred as outspeeding Venusaur is extremely important. Close Combat is an extremely spammable move and, coupled with its high Base Power and Choice Band, it will severely dent even Pokemon neutral to it. As Sawk has quite underwhelming bulk, try to bring it in on a double switch or after a teammate has fainted to preserve Sturdy. Try to predict opposing Pokemon switching in—for example, use Knock Off as the opponent switches to Uxie—as Sawk does not have too many chances to attack and mispredicting means Sawk will get forced out. Entry hazards will break Sturdy, so it is advised to remove them. If Sturdy is intact, Sawk can function as a good emergency stop to opposing setup sweepers such as Drapion and offensive Trick Room Diancie. Entry hazard support from the likes of Qwilfish, Mesprit, and Rhyperior is helpful, as Sawk appreciates the extra damage on the ample switches it forces. Sawk does not like entry hazards breaking Sturdy, so entry hazard removers such as Flygon and Blastoise are appreciated; in particular, Flygon pressures hazard setters such as Qwilfish with its Ground-type coverage. Sawk is a great wallbreaker, so late-game cleaners such as Fletchinder, Jolteon, and Sneasel are good partners to take advantage of the large dents Sawk puts in the opponent's team. As Sawk has poor bulk and switches in and out a lot, pivots such as Magneton and Rotom-C can provide Sawk with free switches. Fast Fighting-types, such as Swords Dance Virizion and Choice Scarf Medicham, are good partners, as Sawk can punch holes in the opponent's team early on for them to clean up. Uxie is a great partner in general, providing momentum with U-turn, Stealth Rock support to whittle down switch-ins, and Thunder Wave to slow down faster threats such as Mega Glalie. Pursuit support from the likes of Drapion and Sneasel is also appreciated to deal with Psychic-types that take Close Combat relatively easy. Pokemon that resist Flying, such as Magnetons, Registeel, and Aerodactyl, are good partners to mitigate Sawk's weakness to Flying-types such as Fletchinder and Braviary. Mold Breaker in tandem with Earthquake can be used to bait in Weezing and KO it, but it is a predictable lure because the Mold Breaker message shows up; Mold Breaker also allows Sawk to guarantee the OHKO on Rhyperior, however. Life Orb can be used if you want Sawk to hit hard and have the possibility to switch moves, but it breaks Sturdy, so Mold Breaker will be the superior ability if you opt for this. Expert Belt can be used to bluff a Choice Band set and have the possibility of switching moves, too, but then Sawk loses power on its moves. A Jolly nature allows Sawk to outpace Shiftry, Medicham, and Mesprit, but it causes Sawk to lose significant power. Ice Punch is a catch-all move, allowing Sawk to hit Flygon and Druddigon for great damage, as well as Togetic. Choice Scarf allows Sawk to be a good revenge killer, but Hitmonlee is more adept at that. Stone Edge is an option to hit Flying- or Bug-types such as Pelipper and Scyther hard, but it is rather useless otherwise.
Sawk (SM competitive strategy): Sawk manages to carve a niche for itself among RU's Fighting-type Pokemon for a few reasons. It hits pretty hard and has solid coverage overall with moves like Knock Off and Poison Jab, and a solid Speed tier places it above common metagame threats like Mega Blastoise and Nidoqueen. Sawk's Sturdy ability gives it a huge niche in general as a catch-all answer to many offensive threats and also allows it to check setup sweepers like Barbaracle in a pinch. Due to its good Speed tier, Sawk can afford to run utility moves like Taunt that other Fighting-types in the tier cannot. However, Sawk is pretty frail and outpaced by many offensive threats such as Swellow, Roserade, and Zygarde-10%. Lastly, it faces competition with other Fighting-type wallbreakers like Flame Orb Machamp and Bewear. As a faster Fighting-type, it also faces competition with Virizion, Toxicroak, Medicham, and Passimian. Close Combat is Sawk's primary STAB move and is useful for both taking down numerous Steel- and Rock-types in the tier and for inflicting heavy damage when used as All-Out Pummeling. Knock Off is good for getting rid of items from Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Gardevoir and is also used to hit Psychic- and Ghost-types like Metagross, Bronzong, and Mismagius. Taunt cripples defensive Pokemon such as Mandibuzz and Bronzong, and Poison Jab rounds off the set, hitting Fairy-types like Gardevoir and Florges super effectively. Earthquake can be used to hit Poison-type Pokemon that otherwise resist Sawk's STAB move such as Toxicroak, Dragalge, and Salazzle, as well as to hit Fire-types such as Alolan Marowak and Arcanine. Sturdy is the ability of choice due to its utility against setup sweepers like Barbaracle and Nasty Plot Ninetales. A Jolly nature lets Sawk outspeed Pokemon such as non-Choice Scarf Goodra and, more importantly, Mega Blastoise. Fightinium Z turns Close Combat into an extremely powerful All-Out Pummeling, capable of KOing Mega Blastoise after Stealth Rock the majority of the time, while also making Sawk rely less on prediction due to the lack of Choice-locking. It's usually best not to directly switch Sawk in due to its frailty and the risk of breaking its Sturdy. It is especially not recommended to switch Sawk in when there are entry hazards or status users on the field or when a hail or sand setter such as Gigalith or Mega Abomasnow is present. Sawk's Sturdy ability can be utilized to safely get a hit in on any Pokemon, even Pokemon that hit it super effectively. Taunt is most effectively used when a defensive Pokemon such as Mandibuzz or Bronzong is on the field, preventing them from using moves like Toxic, Defog, or Stealth Rock in the case of the latter. Finally, All-Out Pummeling should be utilized when you want to unleash a powerful STAB attack against the opponent, but note that using it when a Pokemon that resists it is on the field is not recommended. Sawk fits wells on more offensive teams due to its frailty and lack of defensive presence. Sawk's Sturdy ability can most commonly be broken with entry hazards like Stealth Rock and Spikes. To combat this, hazard removers such as Mega Blastoise, Sigilyph, and Tsareena are a must. Pokemon such as Raikou, Mega Ampharos, and Noivern can easily pivot Sawk into play, giving it free turns to break down teams and keep Sturdy intact. Since Flying-types are a thorn in Sawk's side, checks to these Pokemon such as Tyrantrum, Barbaracle, and Raikou can be useful partners. Choice Band can be used over Fightinium Z on the main set, but the item makes Sawk rely more on prediction and doesn't allow it to run utility moves like Taunt. A Choice Scarf set can be utilized, but it is often outperformed by other Choice Scarf users like Gardevoir, and Passimian performs the role of a Fighting-type Choice Scarf user better due to its access to U-turn. Stone Edge can be utilized to hit Flying-types such as Noivern, Mantine, and Mandibuzz, as well as Bug-types like Golisopod and Ribombee.
Sawk (SS competitive strategy): With a solid Speed tier and its incredibly high attacking power, Sawk makes for an excellent revenge killer that fits well on offense and balance teams. Choice Scarf allows Sawk to threaten foes such as Alolan Persian, Kangaskhan, and Froslass. Knock Off targets Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Rotom, Gourgeist-S, and Uxie while also crippling common switch-ins such as Alcremie, Clefairy, and Tangela. Earthquake hits Poison-types such as Silvally-Poison, Qwilfish, and Skuntank. Stone Edge lets Sawk deal with Flying-types such as Rotom-S, Altaria, and Golbat. Mold Breaker allows Sawk to hit Levitate users such as Uxie and Rotom with Earthquake. Alternatively, Inner Focus allows Sawk to beat Qwilfish with Earthquake, as Inner Focus nullifies its Intimidate, and not flinch from Kangaskhan's Fake Out. However, don't expect to get free turns from Kangaskhan trying to flinch you, as the opponent should notice the absent Mold Breaker activation message. While Sawk has super effective coverage for Pokemon that resist or are immune to Close Combat, it still needs physical walls such as Uxie, Tangela, and Altaria to be weakened in order to KO them and successfully clean. Therefore, special attackers such as Skuntank, Rotom, and Jynx that can deal with them make for great partners. Entry hazard setters such as Rhydon, Piloswine, and Qwilfish help to wear down Sawk's common switch-ins, as most do not have access to reliable recovery. Pivots such as Uxie, Rotom-S, and Alolan Persian circumvent Sawk's mediocre bulk by safely bringing it onto the field, with the former also having access to Future Sight, which dissuades Poison-types from switching in. Choice Band Sawk forgoes Choice Scarf's increase in Speed for more wallbreaking power, letting Close Combat net 2HKOs on neutral physical walls like Pyukumuku and Gurdurr. Knock Off pressures Ghost- and Psychic-types like Rotom and Uxie while also crippling common switch-ins such as Tangela; Close Combat threatens a 2HKO on Tangela once its Eviolite has been removed. Earthquake punishes Poison-types like Qwilfish and Silvally-Poison, while Stone Edge nails Flying-types such as Rotom-S and Altaria. Choice Band Sawk is vulnerable to being revenge killed by faster Flying- and Psychic-types such as Rotom-S and Jynx, so switch-ins such as Rhydon and Articuno are appreciated. These Pokemon also have the added benefit of providing entry hazards to help wear down its switch-ins. Special setup sweepers such as Ninetales and Alcremie benefit greatly from Sawk's ability to break past specially defensive walls such as Coalossal and Miltank. Sawk also appreciates the removal of Ghost-types, so pairing it with Dark-types like Skuntank, Shiftry, and Alolan Persian is a good idea. Future Sight Uxie is a great partner, as it punishes the physical walls such as Tangela and Altaria that switch in on Sawk and can also pivot Sawk in safely with U-turn. Sawk can also weaken the aforementioned walls into the KO range of physical cleaners like Rapidash and Swords Dance Silvally formes. With its all-out attacker set, Sawk can bluff a Choice item and surprise its foe with a powerful Black Belt-boosted Close Combat or a super effective coverage move. Knock Off targets Ghost- and Psychic-types like Rotom, Froslass, and Exeggutor, while also crippling checks like Altaria and Tangela. Stone Edge handles Flying-types like Altaria, Rotom-S, and Articuno, whereas Poison Jab deals significant damage to Fairy-types like Alcremie, Clefairy, and Galarian Rapidash. Earthquake lets Sawk break Poison-types like Qwilfish and Silvally-Poison. Black Belt 2HKOes Tangela lacking Eviolite with Close Combat after Stealth Rock. Mold Breaker lets Sawk use Earthquake on Levitate users like Rotom and Uxie, while Inner Focus makes it immune to Qwilfish's Intimidate and prevents Kangaskhan from chipping it down with Fake Out. All-out attacking Sawk can cripple and weaken physical walls like Tangela, Poliwrath, and Altaria to open a way for physical sweepers like Swords Dance Lycanroc-N, Shift Gear Klinklang, and Thwackey. Pivots like Rotom, Clefairy, and Alolan Persian can bring Sawk safely on to the field. Entry hazard setters like Froslass, Piloswine, and Rhydon can force out Sawk's checks like Altaria, Alcremie, and Silvally-Poison and help Sawk wallbreak, while Sawk can remove Heavy-Duty Boots from its checks with Knock Off to make entry hazards more effective against them. An Adamant nature can be run on its non-Choice Scarf sets to have a better chance to 2HKO Tangela lacking its Eviolite, however a Jolly nature is usually preferred to outspeed the likes of Timid Skuntank and Modest Thievul. Poison Jab lets Sawk 2HKO Alcremie and Clefairy, but this requires giving up one of its other coverage moves, which generally isn't preferred because they target more Pokemon.
Primarina (SM competitive strategy): Primarina is a fearsome wallbreaker in the UU tier, possessing a high Special Attack stat that is complemented nicely by its fantastic offensive and defensive typing in Water / Fairy. Its typing along with its solid natural special bulk allows it to reliably handle Hydreigon as well as stomach hits from threats like Moltres, Chandelure, and Mega Pidgeot and KO in return. However, Primarina is ultimately held back by its lackluster Defense stat, worsening its one-on-one matchup against common Pokemon like Mega Aerodactyl, Scizor, and Dragon Dance Mega Altaria. Additionally, due to its low Speed stat, Primarina is often forced to take damage in order to get off attacks of its own, ultimately limiting its longevity in combination with its vulnerability to all entry hazards. Hydro Pump is Primarina's most powerful viable Water-type STAB move, only held back by its unreliable accuracy. Moonblast offers Primarina a more spammable STAB move, possessing no drawbacks and few sturdy Pokemon that resist it. Sparkling Aria makes for a more reliable Water-type STAB move, also hitting Pokemon like Terrakion and Chandelure through Substitute. Psychic provides great coverage alongside Primarina's STAB moves, nailing Pokemon like Tentacruel and Amoonguss. Maximum Special Attack investment, a Modest nature, and Choice Specs allow Primarina to hit as hard as possible at the cost of locking into a move. 216 Speed EVs let Primarina outspeed Adamant Crawdaunt along with other Pokemon like Gligar, though this stat is easily customizable to fit the team. The rest of Primarina's EVs are dumped into HP, improving its ability to tank hits and do huge damage in return. Torrent allows Primarina to do even more damage with its Water-type STAB moves when its HP is low. A Timid nature with maximum Speed can be used to outspeed and OHKO threats such as Bisharp and Scizor. Primarina is best used early- to mid-game to punch holes for teammates, ideally being brought in on double switches and free switches from U-turn or Volt Switch to preserve its health to handle hits better later on in the match. Primarina does a terrific job of threatening common Stealth Rock users such as Rhyperior and Hippowdon, and it should be used aggressively to take advantage of them early-game. If expecting a hard Primarina counter like Blissey or Empoleon to come in, it is often better to double switch to a teammate that threatens them in order to maintain momentum. Be wary of locking into Psychic, as though it can nab Tentacruel and Amoonguss on the switch, it is easily exploited by common threats like Scizor, Latias, and Krookodile. While Primarina's ability to often stomach a powerful hit and deal huge damage in return to foes is a valuable tool, determine when it is necessary to do so, as it often leaves Primarina too weak to perform its role defensively. Primarina is easily worn down and should be kept at a sufficient amount of HP to check Pokemon like Hydreigon and Infernape if necessary. Entry hazards play a major role in wearing down Primarina, and they should be cleared by teammates whenever needed. Primarina's offensive and defensive capabilities allow it to fit nicely on a wide variety of teams, ranging from balance to offense. Fighting-types like Terrakion, Infernape, and Cobalion provide great ways of breaking through Primarina's best answers in Blissey and Empoleon. Choice Scarf users like Hydreigon and Krookodile make for solid partners, dealing with Mega Manectric and helping to cover for Primarina's low Speed stat. U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Scizor, Mega Manectric, and the aforementioned Hydreigon allow Primarina to switch in for free, letting it effectively perform its role as a wallbreaker while staying healthy over time. Dragon-types as a whole possess great type synergy alongside Primarina, resisting Grass- and Electric-type moves and appreciating its ability to tank opposing Dragon- and Ice-type moves in return. Grass-types offer similar defensive synergy, and Tsareena can double down as a physical wallbreaker to beat Primarina's sturdier answers. Bulky Steel-types such as Mega Steelix, Scizor, and Doublade can absorb Poison-type moves aimed at Primarina while helping to combat many of the physical wallbreakers that threaten it. Entry hazard removers like Gligar, Hydreigon, and Rotom-H are also great options, helping to keep Primarina healthy throughout a match. Similarly, entry hazard setters such as Nihilego and the aforementioned Mega Steelix are essential in further pressuring Primarina's switch-ins, notably guaranteeing that Torrent-boosted Hydro Pump 2HKOes Blissey after Stealth Rock damage. Rest lets Primarina make up for its lack of reliable recovery and is mandatory to check threats like Crawdaunt and Infernape reliably throughout the match. Sleep Talk ensures Primarina is neither passive nor setup fodder while asleep, letting it potentially punish setup sweepers like Terrakion and Cobalion that can otherwise beat it if it is asleep. Thanks to Primarina's naturally good special bulk, it can already take on special attackers like Hydreigon and Lucario well, so 252 Defense EVs in conjunction with a Bold nature let Primarina be as physically bulky as possible to handle physical attackers like Mamoswine, Infernape, and Krookodile. Leftovers not only provides Primarina with passive recovery, which allows Primarina to remain healthy, but also lets it switch into U-turn users like Gligar and Hydreigon more reliably, as it potentially negates U-turn's damage. Torrent's power boost can come in handy against Pokemon like Terrakion and Infernape that Primarina can't reliably OHKO otherwise. Switch Primarina into Pokemon whose STAB moves it resists, including Crawdaunt, Mega Sharpedo, Hydreigon, Kyurem, and Infernape. Be wary of switching Primarina into Pokemon such as Volcanion and Haxorus, though; even though Primarina resists their STAB moves, they are likely to carry super effective coverage in Sludge Bomb and Poison Jab, respectively. However, in Dragon Dance Haxorus's case, a healthy Primarina can survive even a boosted hit and revenge kill it. Generally, scouting for super effective coverage moves on Pokemon Primarina may attempt to beat, such as Gunk Shot on Infernape, is ideal. Early-game, it is advised to use Scald, as it is very spammable and can potentially burn foes and wear them down. A burn from Scald helps Primarina beat Pokemon like Empoleon and Tentacruel that often rely on passive recovery to beat it and cripples other common switch-ins like Amoonguss. Moonblast should be used mid- to late-game, as it is slightly more powerful than Scald and OHKOes certain Pokemon Scald doesn't, such as Krookodile and Crawdaunt. Moonblast can also be used to pressure opposing Water-types like Alomomola and Slowbro, especially if they are burned. Because of its lack of reliable recovery, Primarina should be using Rest as often as it can to take on threats like Krookodile and Infernape throughout the match. Thanks to Rest, Primarina can also act as a status absorber, as it can come in on Toxic users such as Hippowdon and Empoleon and heal itself with Rest. Sleep Talk should almost always be used if Primarina is asleep and it is in its favor to stay in so it is not completely inactive and may still attempt to burn or hit an opposing Pokemon with a STAB move. However, in the rare cases when Primarina needs to save PP, it should not use Sleep Talk every turn it is asleep. Despite having super effective coverage for Latias, Primarina must be wary of staying in on it, as Calm Mind sets can set up on this variant of Primarina and heal off the damage taken with Roost. Furthermore, to avoid unnecessary risks, if Primarina is asleep, it shouldn't stay in on setup sweepers like Scizor and Cobalion. Primarina, generally, fits in on bulky offensive teams and balanced teams that appreciate its unique typing and mixed defensive capabilities. Because Primarina is susceptible to every form of entry hazard, hazard control from Pokemon like Hydreigon and Rotom-C is mandatory to help Primarina reach its full potential as a wall. Similarly, Poison-types like Nidoqueen and Nihilego can absorb Toxic Spikes, which Primarina dislikes. Rotom-H and Moltres deserve a special mention because not only are they able to Defog away hazards for Primarina, they also can check Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tsareena as well as Steel-types like Mega Aggron and Scizor that Primarina fails to beat. Ground-types like Krookodile and Hippowdon generally pair well with Primarina thanks to their ability to check Volt Switch users like Mega Manectric and Zeraora that threaten it out. Steel-types like Scizor, Mega Steelix, and Doublade make great partners as they are capable of beating strong wallbreakers like Celebi and Latias that can beat Primarina. Certain wallbreakers like Infernape and Hydreigon synergize well with Primarina because they are able to take advantage of Primarina forcing in Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tsareena as well as bulky Water-types like Empoleon and Tentacruel. Latias pairs exceptionally well here because it is able to reliably take advantage of Poison-types like Tentacruel and Amoonguss for Primarina, while Primarina can check Dark-types like Krookodile and Hydreigon for it. Because Primarina's typing allows it to serve as a check to Hydreigon, Pokemon like Mega Manectric and Krookodile that struggle to break through Hydreigon pair well with it. Primarina's typing also allows it to handle Fighting-types like Infernape, so Pokemon such as Krookodile, Scizor, and Hydreigon that appreciate Primarina taking them on pair well with it. Energy Ball further improves Primarina's one-on-one matchup against bulky Water-types like Suicune, Slowbro, and Swampert, but it is usually inferior to Psychic. Ice Beam hits Grass-types super effectively, but Moonblast is usually sufficient in damaging them, and Psychic already nails Amoonguss. Hidden Power Electric deals solid damage to Volcanion, Mantine, and Empoleon, but it, too, is hard to justify over Psychic.
Primarina (SS competitive strategy): Primarina is one of the most versatile Pokemon in UU, utilizing its excellent typing, amazing movepool, and solid stats to serve as an integral defensive glue or a potent offensive threat. Water / Fairy is a valuable typing both offensively and defensively, allowing Primarina to answer dangerous threats like Hydreigon, Keldeo, and Salamence while breaking past common walls like Hippowdon and Skarmory. Its RestTalk set counters the likes of Hydreigon and Keldeo, absorbs debilitating status moves from threats like Hippowdon and Swampert, and utilizes its potent STAB combination to threaten the enemy team. Meanwhile, Primarina's three attacks set hones in on its great offensive potential, using coverage moves like Ice Beam and Psychic to overcome foes like Amoonguss and Tentacruel and Substitute to ease prediction by taking advantage of the many switches it forces. This set retains valuable defensive utility against foes like Keldeo, so it is a huge help to bulky offense and balance teams looking for a wallbreaker that can patch up defensive holes. Its Choice Specs set is one of the most difficult wallbreakers to account for, since it has no safe switch-ins apart from Chansey; it tears apart teams relying on Amoonguss and Tangrowth to beat it with its STAB moves and coverage. However, this set does lack the defensive utility of Primarina's other sets, and the three attacks set typically outdoes it as a wallbreaker because it nets the same KOs and has more defensive utility. Primarina's fatal flaw is its Speed, leaving it very vulnerable to getting overwhelmed by faster foes like Thundurus-T, Nihilego, and Zarude that threaten it with super effective damage. Its Defense requires investment so Primarina can check threats like Mamoswine, Cobalion, and Excadrill. RestTalk sets are overly reliant on Rest to heal, meaning they can be taken advantage of if they fail to get the right move when using Sleep Talk. Primarina faces competition from Keldeo as an offensive Water-type due to Keldeo's higher Speed and comparable power, but Primarina's lack of counters outside of Chansey and defensive capabilities let it find a strong place in UU. Scald threatens Fairy-resistant foes like Scizor, Amoonguss, and Celesteela with a burn. Moonblast wipes out the likes of Zarude, Hydreigon, and Salamence and provides strong neutral coverage RestTalk lets Primarina continuously check foes like Keldeo, Crawdaunt, and Salamence; absorb status; and remain an active threat after recovering its health. Leftovers gives Primarina passive recovery to take hits better from Salamence and Cobalion without being forced to use Rest. Heavy-Duty Boots is an option to offset entry hazard damage on teams that lack entry hazard removal. However, the lack of Leftovers recovery limits Primarina's usefulness when asleep after using Rest, and it's only a better choice over Leftovers against Spikes teams. Maximum investment in Defense allows Primarina to check threats like Cobalion, Zygarde-10%, and Hippowdon more easily. Alternatively, heavy investment in Special Defense allows Primarina to more reliably beat Amoonguss one-on-one and better take on strong special attackers like Salamence and Azelf. This Primarina set best fits on bulky offense and balance teams as a reliable defensive glue that counters dangerous threats like Keldeo and Hydreigon. Grass-types like Zarude and Tangrowth are massive threats, so Amoonguss and Skarmory are great teammates to handle them. They both also help check Scizor, with the latter taking on foes like Mamoswine and Excadrill as well. Dhelmise and Assault Vest Tangrowth handle dangerous Electric-types like Thundurus-T and Raikou. Tangrowth is also a backup check to Keldeo and keeps Primarina from being overwhelmed by Zygarde-10% and Excadrill. Primarina is incredibly vulnerable to Spikes without Heavy-Duty Boots, so entry hazard removal from the likes of Salamence, Excadrill, and Dhelmise is appreciated. Hippowdon takes on Electric-types, and its Stealth Rock can slowly wear down threats like Celesteela and Rotom-W. In return, Primarina defeats offensive Water-types like Keldeo and Crawdaunt. Offensive Pokemon like Thundurus-T and Azelf appreciate Primarina countering Noivern and Choice Scarf Hydreigon; they take on Poison-types like Tentacruel and Amoonguss in return. Scizor can reliably switch into the likes of Chansey, Nihilego, and Tangrowth and force them out, and it enjoys Primarina's support against Moltres and Salamence. This Primarina set is a potent wallbreaker with passive recovery to help check threats like Keldeo. Primarina's usual STAB combination allows it to cover the vast majority of the tier and threaten common Pokemon like Hippowdon, Scizor, Salamence, and Cobalion. Ice Beam wipes out Tangrowth and Amoonguss attempting to switch into Primarina and also hits Thundurus-T and Togekiss super effectively. Alternatively, Psychic covers Amoonguss and deals heavy damage to Tentacruel for teams that need extra insurance against it. Substitute allows Primarina to take a hit from revenge killers like Thundurus-T and Zarude and threaten heavy damage back while easing prediction. It can get up Substitute as it forces switches against foes like Hippowdon. Protect allows Primarina to scout Choice-locked threats like Diggersby and Zarude and regain its health with Leftovers. Calm Mind is an option to turn Primarina into a dangerous setup sweeper that can break past unsuspecting Tangrowth and Amoonguss. Leftovers gives Primarina the longevity to take on Keldeo and Salamence more easily. Rindo Berry lets Primarina take a Power Whip from Zarude and Tangrowth and KO them in return, though Primarina misses the passive recovery Leftovers provides and should typically be run when using Protect or Calm Mind. 136 Speed EVs let Primarina outspeed Conkeldurr. 160 Special Attack EVs guarantee the 2HKO on Assault Vest Tangrowth with Ice Beam after Stealth Rock. The remaining EVs are in HP to check the likes of Hippowdon and Keldeo more easily. This Primarina set best fits on bulky offense teams that appreciate its firepower and defensive utility. Entry hazard support is essential in softening up switch-ins like Slowking and Tangrowth, making teammates like Nihilego, Nidoqueen, and Skarmory great. Beyond setting entry hazards, Nihilego can hinder Chansey and Celesteela with Knock Off and pressure Thundurus-T. Nidoqueen pressures Tangrowth and Amoonguss, while Skarmory can reliably take on Zarude and Scizor. Physical wallbreakers like Cobalion and Mamoswine break through specially defensive foes like Chansey. Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tangrowth work in tandem with Primarina to check Keldeo while beating threats like Rotom-W and Thundurus-T. Amoonguss also counters opposing Tangrowth. These Pokemon should be used as primary checks to Keldeo so Primarina can focus on wallbreaking more. Pivots like Hydreigon, Crobat, Azelf, and Rotom-H all create opportunities for Primarina to enter the field safely and wallbreak against foes like Hippowdon, Mandibuzz, and opposing Hydreigon. Choice Scarf Hydreigon can revenge kill faster threats like Thundurus-T and Rotom-W, while Azelf wears down Celesteela and wipes out Nidoqueen and Nihilego. Crobat and Rotom-H take on Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tangrowth. Ice Beam allows Primarina to destroy Amoonguss, Tapu Bulu, and Assault Vest Tangrowth with ease. Alternatively, Psychic retains coverage for Amoonguss and allows Primarina to break past Tentacruel. Scald is used as a reliable Water-type attack to nail foes like Scizor, Hippowdon, and Galarian Slowbro without risking a Hydro Pump miss. It also threatens a burn on switch-ins like Tentacruel and Amoonguss. With a Choice Specs and Modest nature, Primarina is able to 2HKO everything barring Chansey, easily wiping out specially defensive tanks like Celesteela, Slowking, and Assault Vest Tangrowth. Chansey itself is even at risk of being 2HKOed by Torrent-boosted Hydro Pump if it has taken a bit of chip damage. Choice Specs Primarina is at home on bulky offense and balance teams that provide it free switches to wallbreak while covering its limited defenses. Entry hazard support from Spikes setters like Skarmory and Stealth Rock setters like Nidoqueen amplifies Primarina's offensive presence, putting its already limited switch-ins like Amoonguss, Tentacruel, and Tangrowth in range of even resisted attacks. Nidoqueen also is useful in pressuring Cobalion and Assault Vest Tangrowth. Since Primarina lacks recovery and has low Defense, pivots are needed to bring it in safely to wallbreak. Chansey is a defensive pivot that can take on foes Primarina normally would, like Salamence, Moltres, and Hydreigon and bring in Primarina with Teleport against foes like Scizor. A Scizor of your own is useful in wearing down Celesteela with Knock Off as well as countering Chansey and Tangrowth. Defensive Grass-types like Tangrowth and Amoonguss check Grass- and Electric-types like Zarude, Thundurus-T, and Rotom-W. They also cover foes Primarina normally would, like Keldeo. Amoonguss's Stun Spore can be useful in offsetting Primarina's poor Speed. Rapid Spin Dhelmise also checks Thundurus-T and Keldeo while keeping it from getting worn down by entry hazards. Celesteela can scout Primarina's attack with Protect, so teammates that can threaten Celesteela, like Raikou, work well. Azelf and Nihilego can lure in Chansey and remove its Eviolite with Knock Off, making it easier to break through. If Primarina is in Torrent range, Chansey cannot switch in at all. Choice Scarf users like Diggersby and Hydreigon can also bring Primarina in safely against foes like Hippowdon, as well as revenge kill faster threats like Raikou, Thundurus-T, and Zarude. Physical wallbreakers like Zygarde-10% and Swords Dance Cobalion are great teammates, wiping out Chansey and Celesteela. They also revenge kill faster threats like Thundurus-T and Nihilego with ease. Energy Ball on an all-out attacker set with Leftovers lets Primarina 2HKO Slowking and threaten Rotom-W and opposing Primarina more. Custap Berry is an option with Calm Mind to surprise and KO a revenge killer like Thundurus-T, but it is unreliable. Primarina can utilize a variety of Calm Mind sets to turn into a dangerous setup sweeper with free turns. Substitute / Calm Mind / Draining Kiss / Scald is incredibly annoying for revenge killers, as Primarina's increased bulk, safety net in Substitute, extra recovery, and potential to spread burns make it hard for foes like Amoonguss, Zarude, and Thundurus-T to deal with it. Calm Mind + Rest allows Primarina to utilize a stronger Fairy-type STAB in Moonblast while having Rest to heal itself, letting it take on foes like Keldeo more easily. Snore in conjunction with Liquid Voice keeps Primarina from being too passive while asleep and lets it take down foes like Hippowdon and even Scizor with its flinch chance. This Primarina set is its only set that can beat Chansey one-on-one. However, Primarina's lack of a Water-type attack when awake can be exploited by Fairy-type checks like Scizor and Nihilego. Choice Scarf Primarina surprises and wipes out revenge killers like Thundurus-T and Zarude, but it is still slow and fails to revenge kill setup sweepers like Gyarados and Necrozma and doesn't reach the crucial base 115 Speed tier, which includes Azelf and Zygarde-10%.
Primarina (SV competitive strategy): Assault Vest Primarina is a great special tank while being a remarkable offensive threat itself, capable of trading hits against offensive teams. It can check threats like Walking Wake, Dragapult, Darkrai, and Iron Valiant and stomach even strong super effective hits from foes like Iron Moth and Raging Bolt, all while having a decent matchup against common physical attackers like Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Cinderace. Psychic Noise hits Toxapex super effectively and blocks healing from walls like Blissey, Clodsire, and Clefable, allowing Primarina to chip them down for itself and its partners. It also lets Primarina pick off Zamazenta and Iron Moth behind a Substitute. Flip Turn turns Primarina into a pivot, letting it bring in a teammate in safely, either after being attacked or on predicted switches to gain momentum. Whirlpool can be used to stallbreak by trapping the likes of Blissey and Toxapex that may otherwise outlast Primarina, especially in conjunction with Psychic Noise to keep them low. While Torrent is preferred, Liquid Voice can be used on sets that forgo Surf to still maintain a strong STAB move from Psychic Noise; this also allows Primarina shut down even Tera Dark Blissey. Tera Poison and Steel improves its matchup against Iron Valiant, provides a poison immunity from foes like Pecharunt and Clodsire, and flip Primarina's Poison and Grass weakness against moves like Rillaboom's Wood Hammer and Iron Moth's Sludge Wave. Tera Poison lets Primarina maintain its decent matchup against Zamazenta and is better against Iron Moth and Focus Blast Darkrai, while Tera Steel lets it check Deoxys-S, Hatterene, and Galarian Slowking better and pivot more freely in the face of Stealth Rock. Tera Grass aids Primarina's matchup into Ogerpon-W and can help it against Raging Bolt in a pinch too. 176 Speed EVs let Primarina outspeed Adamant Kingambit and Ursaluna, while the remaining HP EVs allow Primarina to reach feats such as surviving Protosynthesis Thunderbolt from Raging Bolt, +1 Speed Booster Energy Iron Moth's Sludge Wave, +2 Gliscor's Earthquake, and two Heavy Slams from Zamazenta. However, a bulkier EV spread of 252 HP / 208 SpA / 48 SpD is also an option to survive two Tera Water Choice Specs Walking Wake's Hydro Steam under sun. Assault Vest Primarina is best used on bulky offense teams that appreciate a Pokemon that has both offensive and defensive prowess, generally teams that are particularly weak to special attackers. Landorus-T provides Intimidate and checks the physical attackers that Primarina struggles with like Kingambit and Great Tusk. Great Tusk is another great teammate, as it provides entry hazard removal and checks Galarian Slowking, which tends to threaten Primarina. In return, Primarina can handle threats like Darkrai and Walking Wake. Kingambit and Weavile appreciate support from Primarina that can switch in on and threaten Pokemon like Iron Valiant and Zamazenta. Furthermore, both of these Pokemon help check Galarian Slowking for Primarina, along with resisting Grass-type attacks. Gholdengo appreciates Primarina's ability to check Fire-types like Cinderace and Heatran, as well as Walking Wake. Primarina struggles with Grass-types like Ogerpon-W, Meowscarada, and Rillaboom, so it's essential to have checks to these such as Rillaboom, Cinderace, and Kingambit. Cinderace, aside from resisting Grass-type attacks, can also help with hazard removal with Court Change, allowing Primarina to switch in more often. Dragapult and Cinderace can form a great pivoting core with Primarina, and they can also spread burn in order to help improve Primarina's matchup against physical attackers like Great Tusk. Primarina is a fierce sweeper that can use its STAB moves, combined with Calm Mind, to muscle through most enemies. Primarina can choose between Surf for perfect accuracy or Hydro Pump for greater power that lets it 2HKO Galarian Slowking at +1. Substitute lets Primarina grab more Calm Mind boosts while slower Pokemon try to cripple Primarina with a status effect, like Toxic from Clodsire, Thunder Wave from Galarian Slowking, or Salt Cure from Garganacl, as well as easing prediction. It can use Psychic Noise to block healing from defensive Pokemon, including Slack Off from Galarian Slowking, Recover from Clodsire, and Wish from Alomomola, thus making them easier to beat. Encore is a niche option that lets Primarina lock opposing Pokemon into moves they don't care for, which can be especially effective in shutting down Kingambit and walls like Clefable and Sinistcha, forcing switches that can give it more opportunities to boost or attack. As for items, Primarina has good choices as well; its item can be Leftovers to grab more healing, pairing well with Substitute, while Heavy-Duty Boots can be used on teams with no entry hazard removal. Custap Berry is an option that allows Primarina to get one last attack before fainting, compensating for its middling Speed tier to trade more reliably against offensive teams. 176 Speed EVs allow Primarina to outspeed Adamant Kingambit. Tera Steel lets Primarina stay in and tank attacks from Grass-, Poison-, and Steel-types and hit them back hard; examples of these moves include Wood Hammer from Rillaboom, Sludge Wave from Iron Moth, and Make It Rain from Gholdengo. Its biggest claim to fame is being able to resist Galarian Slowking's STAB moves, turning one of its worst matchups into a setup opportunity. Tera Ghost gives it an immunity to Blissey's Seismic Toss, Dragonite's Extreme Speed, and Zamazenta's Fighting-type moves. This Primarina set excels in hyper offensive structures as an early-game monster thanks to its good damage output and Calm Mind, which allow Primarina to destroy Kingambit, Heatran, Zamazenta, Clodsire, and many others. Kingambit loves the fact that Primarina can beat some of its counters like Skarmory, Corviknight, and Dondozo. Kingambit, in return, can beat Galarian Slowking and Blissey. The same applies to Iron Valiant, which appreciates Primarina's ability to counter Pokemon like Gholdengo and Skeledirge that can otherwise give it trouble. Thanks to Primarina's good matchup against defensive Ground-types like Clodsire and Ting-Lu, Pokemon like Gholdengo and Raging Bolt appreciate the help sweeping late-game. Primarina struggles against Pokemon that can either shut it down fast with super effective moves, like Ogerpon-W and Rillaboom, strong physical offense from the likes of offensive Great Tusk, or sturdy special walls such as Galarian Slowking and Blissey. Primarina loves the support from Landorus-T, which can scare away special walls with Earthquake, absorb Raging Bolt's Electric-type moves, support Primarina with Intimidate, allowing Primarina to take on strong physical offense, gain momentum from U-turn, which Landorus-T can easily obtain from common switch-ins like Gliscor, Alomomola, and Skarmory, and set up entry hazards to nab some good damage thresholds, like greatly improving the chance for Primarina to 2HKO bulky variants of Gholdengo and Kingambit with unboosted Surf. Iron Treads is another Ground-type that Primarina appreciates for its ability to check Galarian Slowking; it also provides Stealth Rock support, as well as Rapid Spin to clear the field of hazards. Another great partner is Rillaboom, since it also scares away the aforementioned Galarian Slowking and Blissey, as well as Great Tusk, and provides Primarina with extra healing from Grassy Surge. Dragapult is also a good teammate for Primarina because of its ability to check Ogerpon-W, spread status that can help Primarina either tank or outspeed opposing Pokemon more easily, and use U-turn to bring Primarina safely into the battle. Darkrai makes a good pairing due to its ability to beat Galarian Slowking and really appreciates Primarina's ability to beat both Clodsire and Iron Valiant. Offensive hazard setters like Glimmora, Hisuian Samurott, and Deoxys-S bring hazard pressure that can help Primarina break through walls more easily. Galarian Slowking provides pivoting with Chilly Reception and offensive pressure with Future Sight. Thanks to a great typing and solid overall bulk, Primarina is one of the most dangerous set up sweepers in OU, capable of checking and setting up on offensive Pokemon like Zamazenta, Weavile, and Walking Wake. Calm Mind makes Primarina able to threaten the opposing team while also making itself harder to KO for potential revenge killers like Iron Valiant and Enamorus. Psychic Noise can be used in combination with Liquid Voice to cripple defensive switch-ins that would be able to beat it one-on-one, such as Dondozo, Unaware Clefable, and Clodsire. Surf is also an option to put more pressure on offensive teams due to it's higher Base Power while being run with Torrent, which can power it up in a pinch. It notably is useful against Gholdengo as well as threatening the 2HKO on bulky Kingambit after a Calm Mind. Substitute prevents Primarina from being affected by status moves such as Thunder Wave from Clefable and Toxic from Clodsire. It also punishes switches that Primarina forces and allows it to scout opposing Pokemon. Substitute is also useful to avoid being revenge killed by Rillaboom and Meowscarada while blocking Trick from Pokemon like Choice Scarf Gholdengo. It is also a safe way to bring Primarina to Torrent range. The 8 Special Defense EVs allow Primarina to avoid the 2HKO from Protosynthesis-boosted Choice Specs Walking Wake's Hydro Steam under sun. Both Tera Poison and Steel flip the matchup against Grass-types like Meowscarada, Serperior, and Rillaboom while also turning the tables on Galarian Slowking. With Tera Steel, Primarina resists Gholdengo's Make it Rain and can beat it one-on-one. It can also absorb Galarian Slowking's Future Sight and set up on Hatterene and Clefable. Primarina fits best on bulky offense teams that appreciate the natural defensive utility that Primarina brings to the table while also being a threatening sweeper itself. Primarina can support teammates such as Weavile, Rillaboom, and Great Tusk by switching in on Zamazenta, Weavile, and Walking Wake. Rillaboom is particulary good, as Primarina covers threats to it like Cinderace, Dragonite, and Skeledirge while appreciating the extra healing of Grassy Terrain. Great Tusk, Rillaboom, and Weavile can threaten Pokemon that would otherwise be annoying for Primarina, such as Galarian Slowking, Ogerpon-W, and Serperior, respectively. Due to Primarina's lack of reliable recovery, it struggles against entry hazards, especially hazard stacking teams. The aforementioned Great Tusk helps it by removing them with Rapid Spin while also being a switch-in to Kingambit that can threaten a weakened Primarina out. Pokemon like Ogerpon-W, Rillaboom, and Serperior can safely switch into Primarina and threaten it with powerful attacks, forcing it to Terastallize or switch out; Pokemon that can switch in on these threats like Kingambit, Rillaboom, Skarmory, and Corviknight make for great teammates. Kingambit is also a huge help, as it beats one of the most common checks to Primarina in Galarian Slowking while appreciating Primarina's ability to safely switch in and beat Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Skarmory.
Melmetal (SM competitive strategy): Melmetal is a centralizing force in the LGPE OU metagame thanks to many unique attributes that let it fulfill an invaluable role on every team. As one of the only viable Steel-types in the tier, Melmetal can take on menacing threats such as Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Beedrill, Mega Alakazam, and Dragonite. This, coupled with its incredible HP, Attack, and Defense, enables it to perform as one of the best tanks in the tier. Melmetal's coverage options also let it hit the majority of the metagame for super effective damage, as BoltBeam and Earthquake coverage in tandem with Double Iron Bash threatens any potential switch-in. However, a lack of reliable recovery can significantly wear down Melmetal over the course of the match, especially when it repeatedly comes in against strong physical wallbreakers and entry hazards. Melmetal's low Speed also usually forces it to take a hit before doing any damage itself, meaning that it needs to be kept at a significant amount of health if it wants to counteract the opposing Pokemon it's facing. This, coupled with a subpar Special Defense stat, also makes specially offensive threats such as Mew and Mega Charizard X ever more dangerous. Even though its typing is amazing defensively, it still leaves Melmetal weak to common offensive coverage moves like Earthquake and Flamethrower, which can be seen on common threats like Dragonite and Mew, respectively, used specifically to take it on. Double Iron Bash is a powerful, spammable STAB move that has the added chance of causing flinch to Melmetal's foes, which may come in handy when combined with Thunder Wave support. Earthquake covers Fire- and Steel-type Pokemon that would likely want to switch into Melmetal's STAB attack. Thunder Punch lets Melmetal cover Water-type switch-ins such as Gyarados, Starmie, and Poliwrath. Superpower may be used instead as a more powerful option against Mega Gyarados and opposing Melmetal specifically, although the reduced stats after every use tend to force Melmetal out. Ice Punch works great in conjunction with Thunder Punch, forming solid BoltBeam coverage that may defeat common switch-ins such as Zapdos. Rest is a form of semi-reliable recovery, although it requires mandatory support via Eevee-S thanks to Sparkling Swirl, as Melmetal becomes too vulnerable otherwise. Facade can be used as a means to work around status moves that are commonly inflicted onto Melmetal, especially when facing common users such as Mew, Starmie, and Eevee-S. An Adamant nature enables Melmetal to dish out as much damage as possible, most notably having a better chance to 2HKO Poliwrath and Mega Gyarados with Thunder Punch. Impish can be used as an alternative to better take on threats such as Mega Beedrill and Mega Aerodactyl. Careful is another option as a nature to help improve Melmetal's poor special bulk; however, Melmetal still struggles to take on threats such as Gengar and Mew. Thanks to Melmetal's phenomenal physical bulk, it can often be brought in against the majority of physical attackers in the tier, with the best examples being Mega Beedrill, Mega Gyarados, and Snorlax. However, Melmetal must always be wary of coverage options such as Earthquake, Drill Run, and Fire Blast, which can threaten to wear it down significantly. Melmetal tends to spam Double Iron Bash the majority of the time due to its significant damage output against any foe that does not resist it; however, coverage moves such as Thunder Punch and Ice Punch should be used to dent common Pokemon that resist Steel, like Poliwrath and Zapdos. Rest should be reserved for when Melmetal gets low on health or inflicted by status, as otherwise the burden of bringing in Eevee-S in order to remove the sleep ailment becomes too much of a burden. Melmetal pairs well with offensive threats that appreciate its ability to take on physical hits in a pinch. Notable examples include Mega Alakazam, Mega Beedrill, and Dragonite, as they can help take on threats to Melmetal such as Starmie, Mew, and Alolan Dugtrio. Mew is also a solid partner for Melmetal, as it can take physical hits for Melmetal that may wear it down overtime if it is forced to come in too frequently. Mew can also provide support via slow U-turn pivoting, enabling Melmetal to come in without risking taking a hit. Defensive Water-types such as Mega Gyarados, Poliwrath, and Starmie can form a solid defensive core with Melmetal, as they can help check Fire- and Ground-types. Flying-types such as Mega Aerodactyl and Zapdos are also appreciated, as they can come in on Earthquake, a common coverage move carried by the majority of physical attackers in the tier, while Melmetal can switch in on Rock-type moves. Eevee-S is a mandatory partner if Melmetal is using Rest, as it becomes too passive otherwise. Thunder Wave is an option with Double Iron Bash's flinch chance, as it can help paraflinch through Melmetal's checks; however, Melmetal's low Speed prevents it from outspeeding the majority of offensive threats even after the Speed reduction from paralysis. Toxic is another utility option that can catch switch-ins such as Zapdos and Mew off guard, wearing them down periodically throughout the match. Self-Destruct can be utilized as a powerful last-ditch option when Melmetal is weakened; however, coverage moves are generally preferred.
Melmetal (SS competitive strategy): Making use of its excellent bulk, powerful attacking options, and strong defensive type, Melmetal is a dangerous threat that demands the respect of every serious team, capable of trading hits with almost the entire tier and coming out on top. Its obscenely powerful Double Iron Bash and coverage options combined with its amazing bulk make Melmetal capable of checking and forcing out threats such as Tapu Lele and more softly Weavile and Kartana, while taking the opportunity generated by switching in on these threats to dismantle the opposing defensive core cores with relative ease. Melmetal is also highly customizable, making great use of status moves like Toxic and Thunder Wave to facilitate not only itself but teammates as well. However, while it does not outright crumble to any stray special attack, Melmetal is still quite vulnerable to many super effective special attacks coming from the likes of Heatran, Blacephalon, Volcanion, and Volcarona and even common coverage options like Tapu Lele's Focus Blast and Dragapult's Flamethrower. This problem is further compounded by Double Iron Bash's limited PP and the common Water- and Steel-types that resist it, as well as the constant Spikes and Knock Off found within the tier. Furthermore, Double Iron Bash's nature as a multi-hit contact move also makes Melmetal quite exploitable by things such as Ferrothorn's Iron Barbs, Zapdos's Static, and Heatran's Flame Body if it is not running Protective Pads. However, despite these flaws, Melmetal is still one of the most powerful forces in the tier, ready to drive anyone foolish enough to underestimate its presence, for a lack of a better term, nuts. Taking advantage of its natural bulk and the extended longevity provided by Leftovers and Protect, Melmetal receives some much desired staying power, consistently switching into the likes of Tapu Lele, non-Choice Scarf Tapu Fini, Dragapult, and Galarian Slowking, and with proper scouting, it even helps handle the likes of Weavile, Tyranitar, and Kartana. Protect allows Melmetal to gain extra recovery from Leftovers, scout moves, and turn the tables on opposing Choice item users such as Dragapult and Volcanion that may try to force Melmetal out with the threat of a move it cannot hope to take. Earthquake is great coverage in tandem with Double Iron Bash, demolishing common Steel-resistant foes like Heatran, Toxapex, and opposing Melmetal, while Superpower is an option to hit Ferrothorn significantly harder while maintaining good coverage against Heatran and opposing Melmetal. Toxic is used in the last slot to cripple Pokemon that withstand the combination of Melmetal's coverage such as Rotom-W, Slowbro, and Zapdos, while Thunder Punch is an alternative option that can allow Melmetal to hit Corviknight and Skarmory very hard and still put meaningful pressure on Slowbro. Thunder Wave may also be considered over Toxic or Thunder Punch to allow Melmetal to slow down many Pokemon that would otherwise be faster and capitalize on slower targets with the nauseating combo of full paralysis alongside Double Iron Bash's extremely high flinch chance. High Horsepower is an option over Earthquake on teams making use of Rillaboom or Tapu Bulu; however, the loss in power, contact properties, and imperfect accuracy make it suboptimal outside of such teams. The listed EV spread allows Melmetal to outspeed everything up to Gastrodon and maximizes recovery from Leftovers, dumping the rest of the EVs into Attack and Special Defense to help it check Dragapult, Tapu Lele, and Galarian Slowking while letting it hit back as hard as possible. It is preferred to invest in Special Defense because Melmetal's HP and Defense stats are already naturally high. Melmetal fits best on bulky offense teams that appreciate its ability to check many Psychic- and Fairy-types such as Tapu Lele, Galarian Slowking, Tapu Fini, and Clefable while not letting up as much offensive pressure as other Steel-types. As such, Pokemon that enjoy having something to fall back on against these Fairy-types such as Dragapult, Garchomp, Hydreigon, Urshifu-R, and Weavile make for excellent teammates; Garchomp in particular is a strong defensive teammate that can check Heatran and scout Tapu Lele with Protect to bring Melmetal in with much less fear, also setting Stealth Rock to put even more pressure on the opposing team. Because Melmetal is so easily pressured by Spikes, it is also important to bring a Defogger such as Tornadus-T, Zapdos, or Landorus-T that keeps these entry hazards off the field to promote Melmetal's ability to play the long game. Rillaboom is another great teammate that takes advantage of Melmetal's ability to pressure shared checks such as Zapdos and Ferrothorn, while in return, Rillaboom makes Melmetal even more difficult to remove from the game thanks to Grassy Terrain halving the power of Earthquake and providing it even more passive recovery. On such teams, however, it is much preferred to run Superpower over Earthquake to avoid suffering the same power drop from Grassy Terrain. Swords Dance Weavile is notable as a deadly partner for Melmetal early- and late-game, absolutely loving Melmetal forcing massive damage on Ferrothorn and Toxapex so Weavile can sweep later on in the game. Melmetal's Protect can even help scout Shadow Ball from the likes of Dragapult and Blacephalon to allow Weavile to get a free switch opportunity to get a Swords Dance off. Urshifu-R and Dragapult both make for great offensive partners thanks to Melmetal reliably taking advantage of and breaking through shared checks like Slowbro and Toxapex in the case of Urshifu-R and Clefable and Blissey in the case of Dragapult, while in return, they put immense pressure on many of the Steel-types Melmetal struggles to make progress against. Magnezone is also a notable teammate, trapping troublesome Steel-types such as Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Corviknight for Melmetal and making it even scarier to deal with. Running Assault Vest on this set increases Melmetal's special bulk, making it better at switching into and checking special attackers like Tapu Lele, Tapu Koko, and Dragapult. Double Iron Bash is Melmetal's main wallbreaking move, and thanks to the boost from Iron Fist, it can 2HKO neutral targets barring Buzzwole. Earthquake hits the likes of opposing Melmetal, Heatran, Toxapex, and Victini, which resist Double Iron Bash. Superpower can be used instead to hit Ferrothorn and Kartana much more powerfully, with Ferrothorn otherwise checking Melmetal and Kartana threatening it off the field with Sacred Sword. Thunder Punch hits bulky Water- and Flying-types like Toxapex, Slowbro, and Corviknight. Ice Punch decimates Ground-types like Garchomp and Landorus-T and Flying-types that aren't hit super effectively by Thunder Punch, namely Zapdos and Dragonite. 92 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature let Melmetal OHKO Dragapult and Tapu Koko with Double Iron Bash, 12 Speed EVs let it outspeed Toxapex, and the rest is invested in HP and Special Defense to maximize special bulk, allowing Melmetal to survive two Flamethrowers from Choice Specs Dragapult. 176 HP EVs also allow Melmetal to survive V-create from Victini after Stealth Rock. It's worth running more Special Defense than HP, since its HP is naturally high. Melmetal fits best on bulky offense teams that appreciate the offensive and defensive utility it can compress into one slot. Landorus-T is a great teammate for it on these types of structures, since it's able to soft-check Fire-types like Heatran and Victini and Ground-types like Garchomp and opposing Landorus-T, as well as providing entry hazard removal with Defog and pivoting with U-turn to bring Melmetal in safely. Tapu Koko provides offensive support by setting Electric Terrain, powering up Thunder Punch and giving Melmetal a chance to 2HKO bulky walls like Slowbro, Corviknight, and Toxapex. Misty Terrain support from Tapu Fini protects Melmetal from status conditions, such as burn from Flame Body and Scald and paralysis from Thunder Wave and Static. Rillaboom is a great partner for Melmetal if it's running Superpower over Earthquake, as Melmetal can make progress against Ferrothorn for Rillaboom, while Rillaboom can beat the bulky Water-types that give Melmetal trouble, namely Slowbro and Rotom-W. Rillaboom also sets Grassy Terrain on switching in, weakening Earthquake damage from Ground-types like Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Excadrill and giving Melmetal a form of passive recovery. Dragapult serves as vital speed control for bulky offense structures and can switch into anticipated Fighting-type attacks from Pokemon like Blaziken and Urshifu-R that would otherwise be able to overwhelm Melmetal, and it also appreciates Melmetal annihilating its checks like Blissey, Clefable, and Tyranitar so it can clean up late-game. Flying-types like Zapdos and Tornadus-T are able to come in on the Ground- and Fighting-types Melmetal doesn't like facing off against, and Melmetal is able to bash through the Fairy- and Ice-types the Flying-types struggle with such as Clefable, Weavile, and Arctozolt. Substitute is an option over Protect on teams that already have a Steel-type that covers most of Melmetal's roles defensively to ease prediction and make checks such as Toxapex and non-Body Press Ferrothorn unable to do anything to Melmetal, letting it continue ravaging the opponent's defensive core; this does, however, compound Melmetal's longevity issue even further as well as making it even more prone to entry hazards. Choice Band sets with Double Iron Bash, Thunder Punch, Ice Punch, Superpower, and 212 Speed EVs to outspeed uninvested Clefable may seem appealing to get the most out of Melmetal's sheer power; however, they require lots of prediction to pull off properly due to how common foes resistant to all of the moves they typically run are. Protective Pads is an option to allow Melmetal to bypass contact effects such as Flame Body, Static, Rocky Helmet, and Ferrothorn's Iron Barbs, which is especially synergistic with Thunder Wave to paraflinch otherwise sturdy checks such as Slowbro, Skarmory, and Corviknight into KO range of its coverage options. Lastly, faster spreads on Melmetal may be considered to reach certain benchmarks, one example being a spread of 20 HP / 252 Atk / 128 SpD / 108 Spe to outspeed Hippowdon.
Melmetal (SV competitive strategy): The combination of Toxic and Protect allows Melmetal to force chip damage onto foes by inflicting them with debilitating status while keeping itself healthy. This makes Melmetal hard to wear down over the course of a game. Earthquake smacks many Toxic-immune Steel-resistant Pokemon, such as Heatran, Toxapex, and Gholdengo. Protect lets Melmetal force even more Toxic damage onto foes, therefore allowing it to consistently chip them down. It also allows Melmetal to scout for dangerous coverage moves, such as Fighting-type coverage from Tapu Lele and Gholdengo and Fire-type coverage from Zapdos, as well as ease prediction against common Choice item users like Landorus-T, Zamazenta, and Tapu Lele. Leftovers combined with Protect makes it quite hard to wear down Melmetal over time. The given EV spread allows Melmetal to take a +2 Supreme Overlord-boosted Knock Off from Kingambit at full health and outspeed Toxapex. Melmetal fits well onto balance and bulky offense teams. These teams appreciate Melmetal's bulk allowing them to stave off threats such as Tapu Lele, Terapagos, and Tornadus-T while forcing progress against defensive cores consisting of common Pokemon such as Alomomola, Zapdos, Moltres, and Landorus-T. Melmetal struggles to pressure certain Steel-types, most notably Ferrothorn and Skarmory, and it is forced out by other common Pokemon like Heatran, Gliscor, and Air Balloon Gholdengo. Fire-types like Mega Charizard Y, Volcarona, and Iron Moth are choices that can pressure Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Gholdengo, while Ground- and Fighting-types like Landorus-T and Iron Valiant threaten Heatran. Late-game cleaners, such as Iron Valiant, Kingambit, and Zamazenta, appreciate Melmetal chipping down standard defensive cores consisting of Pokemon such as Ting-Lu, Zapdos, and Alomomola, therefore giving them an easier time cleaning up late-game. Swords Dance Iron Valiant is notable for its ability to break through Gliscor, another obstacle in Melmetal's goal to make progress. Alomomola is another great partner, using Wish to keep Melmetal healthy while checking several foes that are problematic for it, such as Landorus-T, Urshifu-R, and Great Tusk. Other specially bulky partners such as Toxapex, Ting-Lu, and specially defensive Garchomp can shore up Melmetal's rather mediocre special bulk while also checking Mega Charizard Y, Volcarona, and Heatran. Melmetal gains impressive mixed bulk when equipped with an Assault Vest, allowing it to check threats such as Tapu Lele, Mega Diancie, and Terapagos while dishing out significant damage in return. Ice Punch slams Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Gliscor on the switch. It is also Melmetal's best way to hit Zapdos, but it needs to be careful due to the risk of getting paralyzed by Static. Thunder Punch hits Alomomola, Moltres, and Slowbro, although Flame Body from Moltres makes pressuring it this way risky; it is also the best way to pressure Toxapex if not running Earthquake. Earthquake allows Melmetal to hit Heatran, Kingambit, and Gholdengo hard. Superpower can be used instead in order to threaten Ferrothorn and Kartana while still hitting Heatran and Kingambit, but the stat drops are detrimental, and Melmetal loses its best way to hit Gholdengo. The given EV spread gives Melmetal enough bulk to take two Focus Blasts from Tapu Lele and enough speed to outrun Toxapex. Assault Vest Melmetal works best on bulky offense and offense teams, as they appreciate its combination of bulk and wallbreaking power while being able to work around its limited longevity. Melmetal's lack of recovery leaves it very vulnerable to chip damage, especially from Spikes. Entry hazard removal from the likes of Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Terapagos is therefore very important. Great Tusk is notable, as it appreciates Melmetal checking dangerous Psychic- and Grass-types, like Tapu Lele and Ogerpon-W, and it can use Ice Spinner to threaten dangerous Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gliscor. Alomomola is another notable partner, as it can get Melmetal into battle safely with Flip Turn while also passing it Wishes to keep it healthy. Alomomola also helps to check Fire-types like Heatran and Ground-types like Landorus-T and Great Tusk. Fast, frail offensive threats like Iron Valiant and Urshifu-R love Melmetal taking hits from revenge killers like Choice Scarf Tapu Lele, Raging Bolt, and Kingambit while also breaking down the opposing team with its powerful attacks, therefore letting them clean up later. Melmetal's ability to reliably spread Thunder Wave while remaining quite dangerous offensively makes it a great support Pokemon. It can also become deadly in mid- to late-game scenarios thanks to its tendency to paraflinch its way through otherwise decent checks like Toxapex, Ferrothorn, and Slowbro with Double Iron Bash. Thunder Wave allows Melmetal to spread paralysis onto potential switch-ins such as Mega Charizard Y and Volcarona. Thunder Punch pressures Alomomola, Toxapex, and Moltres. Superpower is the preferred coverage move, as it hits threats like Ferrothorn, Kingambit, Heatran, and Kartana hard. Earthquake can be considered instead, however, as it hits Gholdengo while also hitting Heatran harder than Superpower. Protective Pads prevents Melmetal from being threatened by contact-punishing traits like Rocky Helmet on Landorus-T and Alomomola, Iron Barbs on Ferrothorn, Static on Zapdos, and Flame Body on Moltres and Volcarona. Punching Glove should be used instead if running Earthquake, as it prevents Double Iron Bash and Thunder Punch from making contact while slightly boosting their power. 92 Speed EVs allow Melmetal to outrun a paralyzed Heatran and Ting-Lu. Melmetal fits on team styles ranging from offense to balance thanks to its unique blend of support combined with strong offensive pressure. Thunder Wave Melmetal does well with teammates centered around benefitting from paralysis. Strong, slow wallbreakers like Mega Medicham, Ursaluna, and Mega Tyranitar love having fast threats slowed down. They can form a deadly double wallbreaking core with Melmetal, which remains dangerous in its own right and can check revenge killers such as Kartana, Ogerpon-W, and Tapu Lele. Hex Gholdengo is also a great partner, as it can unleash a fully powered up Hex onto paralyzed foes; Teammates that deal with threatening Ground-types such as Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Gliscor are also good to have, as Melmetal cannot paralyze them and is forced out by them. Water- and Grass-types, such as Ogerpon-W, Urshifu-R, and Rillaboom, can threaten them offensively, while defensive checks like Zapdos and Alomomola work as well.
Throh (XY competitive strategy): Throh is a very unique Pokemon with fairly impressive bulk that allows it to pivot into weaker special attackers during a match. While Throh faces heavy competition from other popular Fighting-types such as Hariyama and Gurdurr, which sport higher Attack and Defense, respectively, Throh manages to create a niche for itself as an extremely bulky phazer with STAB Circle Throw. Throh also has a useful ability in Guts, which allows it to boost its Attack stat to decent levels when inflicted with status, making it a good status or Scald absorber for teams. Unfortunately, it is hard for Throh to utilize its potential without Spikes support, and Ghost-types like Rotom, Mismagius, and Gourgeist-XL completely shut down sets lacking Knock Off, which is a suboptimal move. If Throh has acquired no boosts and has no entry hazard support, it essentially has no means of generating any significant pressure. Additionally, boosts can often be challenging to accumulate, which makes Throh passive for a good portion of the battle. While Throh has impressive bulk, mono-Fighting typing doesn't offer many useful resistances, so teams will almost always require a secondary check to special attackers such as Mesprit, Jynx, and Charizard, which will always force it out. Throh's subpar defensive typing allows it to be 3HKOed by many of the tier's stronger special attackers such as Swellow and Magmortar, forcing Throh to rely on good Sleep Talk rolls to win one-on-one. When coupled with entry hazards, Circle Throw works well to phaze opposing Pokemon, forcing them to take more damage every time they enter the field, and potentially stop weaker setup sweepers from boosting. Rest is Throh's only means of recovery, giving it longevity during the match. Sleep Talk allows Throh to not be passive after using Rest with the added benefit that moves selected by Sleep Talk will get an Attack boost from Guts. Bulk Up boosts Throh's Attack and Defense to very high levels and makes it hard to take down after a single boost. Knock Off allows Throh to hit Ghost-types that would otherwise wall it while also hitting Psychic-types such as Mesprit, Xatu, and Musharna and is overall useful for removing opposing Pokemon's items early-game. The inability to boost, however, is very troubling for Throh, and oftentimes it's better to just run a Pursuit trapper to deal with Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment with a Careful nature allows Throh to make the most of its special bulk and allows it to set up on weaker special sweepers or phaze them. Guts is the preferred ability, as it boosts Throh's Attack when it's inflicted with status and pairs well with Rest as Throh's sole way to restore its health. Leftovers is the item of choice, as it increases Throh's longevity over the course of a battle. Use Throh to pivot into weaker attackers such as Lanturn, Piloswine, and Steelix early- and mid-game, allowing Throh to phaze them, remove their item with Knock Off, or use them as setup fodder. Throh functions best in the later stages of a game after opposing Psychic-, Poison-, and Ghost-types have been removed or severely weakened, as setting up early-game will almost always result in Throh being revenge killed. Throh's early- and mid-game offensive presence is almost nonexistent, as all it can hope to do is phaze opposing Pokemon with weak Circle Throws or potentially remove their items with Knock Off. Ghost-types completely shut down Throh if it doesn't have Knock Off, so it should not set up before they are eliminated. Use Rest whenever Throh is at low HP, but still beware of mindlessly clicking Rest, as it forces Throh to rely on Sleep Talk, which is rather unreliable. Throh also receives an Attack boost by virtue of Guts when asleep, which is always beneficial. Spikes support works incredibly well alongside Throh and is almost mandatory when using it; Pokemon such as Garbodor, Omastar, Ferroseed, and Roselia are quality setters that can assist in Throh's attempt to effectively shuffle an opposing team. In particular, Omastar's resistance to Flying-type moves from Pokemon such as Archeops and Ferroseed's resistance to Psychic-type moves from Pokemon such as Mesprit are very useful for Throh. Pursuit trappers such as Skuntank, Liepard, and Choice Band Scyther are also some of the best partners for Throh, as they not only eliminate the Ghost-types that prevent Throh from sweeping, but can also can deal with Psychic-types that plague Throh. Ghost-types that can block Rapid Spin to keep Spikes up such as Rotom, Gourgeist-XL, and Mismagius are terrific partners as well. Lastly, bulky Ground- and Rock-type Pokemon such as Piloswine, Steelix, and Rhydon can combat Flying-types such as Scyther and Archeops that force Throh out while also providing Stealth Rock to aid Throh's phazing capability. Offensive Bulk Up sets with Storm Throw / Knock Off / Zen Headbutt are solid in theory, as Throh's decent coverage allows it to break through traditional Fighting-type checks such as Garbodor and Vileplume; however, an offensive Bulk Up set is almost always outperformed by other Fighting-types such as Hitmonchan and Gurdurr, which are stronger and have access to Drain Punch and priority Mach Punch. A Choice Band set with Guts and a moveset consisting of Storm Throw / Knock Off / Zen Headbutt / Stone Edge transforms Throh from an annoying phazer into a wallbreaker with perfect neutral coverage; however, they are outclassed by Hariyama, which is stronger and has access to multiple forms of priority.
Throh (SM competitive strategy): Throh's unique combination of Mold Breaker, Storm Throw, and great bulk gives it a niche, allowing it to bypass would-be checks like Tangela and Pyukumuku, edge out opposing setup sweepers such as Gurdurr and Calm Mind Spiritomb, and serve as a blanket check to Pokemon such as Hitmonchan, Lycanroc, and Alolan Persian. Throh also stands out from its main competitor in Gurdurr with its greater Speed, better special bulk, and ability to viably run Leftovers, which grants it passive recovery and many setup opportunities that Gurdurr lacks with the use of Substitute. However, Throh's overall poor Speed and lack of recovery options outside of Leftovers can make it easy to wear down prior to setup, especially by status if it can't use Substitute in time. The abundance of Fighting-type checks such as Oricorio-E, Victreebel, and Silvally-Fairy also serve as hindrances to Throh and can prevent it from successfully setting up if they're healthy enough to pivot in and threaten it. Finally, even with Throh's upsides, it faces competition with Gurdurr for a team slot due to the latter's higher physical bulk, access to Mach Punch for fast-paced teams, and better utilization of Guts to take advantage of status, though Throh's previously mentioned qualities and far greater matchup against balance and stall teams give it a reason to be used. Storm Throw is Throh's most consistent form of damage output and can be used to ignore Defense boosts from Pokemon like Gurdurr and Mudsdale. Knock Off offers utility in removing items like Gurdurr's Eviolite, and it also targets Pokemon resistant or immune to Storm Throw such as Alolan Raichu and Oricorio-G. Substitute provides Throh with a shield from status moves, makes it harder to revenge kill, and allows it to utilize Bulk Up and its solid natural defenses to prevent weaker Pokemon such as Tangela and Skuntank lacking Choice Band from breaking it. 124 Speed EVs allow Throh to outpace uninvested Pokemon with base 60 Speed and slower such as Tangela, Regirock, and Audino. The given defensive EVs and an Impish nature prevent weaker Pokemon like Tangela, Ferroseed, and defensive Alolan Sandslash from breaking Throh's Substitute. Mold Breaker enables Throh to beat Pyukumuku, a staple on stall teams. Throh is best used late-game when defensive checks like Silvally-Fairy and Victreebel as well as wallbreakers such as Dodrio are weakened or out of the picture. Utilize Throh's incredible matchup against bulkier teams to take advantage of Pokemon like Regirock, Gastrodon, Tangela, and Calm Mind Spiritomb, but find a way to switch it in through a pivot or a predicted attack, as the former three can carry Toxic and cripple Throh. Feel free to use Substitute against such Pokemon if the opposing team does not have an immediate switch-in, as they usually lack the proper tools to break it and allow Throh to set up. If Throh can't successfully set up yet, Knock Off is a great move to spam early-game to remove items from checks like Oricorio-E and Sableye, as well as scout for potential Z-Move users. Make use of another teammate to eliminate or severely weaken such checks to ensure that Throh can perform its role later in a match. Keeping Throh healthy and away from status moves is important if its setup abilities are needed so that it can have safer opportunities to use Bulk Up or Substitute, so exercise caution when using it to soft check Pokemon such as Cryogonal or sending it out with entry hazards on the field. Poison-types like Qwilfish, Roselia, and Skuntank are great partners for Throh, since they can switch into Toxic and absorb Toxic Spikes, and Choice Band Skuntank is an excellent Pursuit trapper that deals with many of Throh's checks like Sableye and Musharna. Toxic Spikes from Qwilfish and Roselia as well as Destiny Bond from Qwilfish can cripple and eliminate several checks to Throh, and Throh can use Substitute to continually inflict residual damage alongside Toxic Spikes. Entry hazard setters in general like Regirock and Alolan Sandslash aid Throh in breaking through teams, and both serve as answers to some of Throh's checks like Oricorio-E. Offensive teammates such as Lycanroc, Rotom-F, and Absol are also nice partners for Throh as powerful attackers that can target the Flying- and Psychic-type that pose a significant threat to it. All of these Pokemon also appreciate Throh's ability to soft check the likes of Hitmonchan and Alolan Persian. Throh appreciates teammates that can support its longevity, so Aromatherapy or Heal Bell users like Lurantis and Lanturn are useful for removing status ailments that can cripple Throh, while Z-Parting Shot Alolan Persian and Healing Wish Musharna can bring it back up to full health. Pivots such as Silvally-Fairy, Lanturn, and Alolan Persian are excellent ways to bring Throh into play without forcing it to take excessive damage or a potential status move. Parting Shot from Silvally-Fairy and Alolan Persian can even make it easier for Throh to set up, but U-turn Silvally-Fairy is also a viable option as a unique way to lure Regirock for Throh to take advantage of. Guts allows Throh to punish faster users of status moves such as Jellicent and Sableye, but forgoing Mold Breaker takes away Throh's ability to threaten Pyukumuku, making it much harder for Throh to break a handful of stall teams, which is a solid reason to consider using it over Gurdurr. Toxic cripples answers to Throh like Oricorio-E, Sableye, and Silvally-Fairy, though it struggles to find room to run it. A RestTalk set with Circle Throw gives Throh a form of recovery and a way to rack up entry hazard damage. Offensive Throh sets like Choice Band can utilize its decent Attack and large movepool, but Throh lacks a powerful and spammable STAB move and is usually outclassed by more consistent wallbreakers such as Stoutland, Aggron, and Dodrio, all of which possess greater power or Speed. Other offensive Fighting-types such as Hitmonchan and Primeape are also preferred for their far better Speed tiers and the latter's ability to pivot.
Throh (SS competitive strategy): Throh is a very bulky special wall that works especially well on Spikes-stacking teams. Circle Throw lets it phaze switch-ins, which pairs well with entry hazard support. Knock Off cripples checks like Altaria, Alcremie, and Tangela, hits Ghost-types like Rotom and Gourgeist-S, and removes Heavy-Duty Boots, which is appreciated on entry hazard-stacking teams. Rest is Throh's only form of recovery; thanks to Sleep Talk and Guts, Throh acts as a status absorber and lacks passivity while asleep. The given EV spread lets Throh outspeed uninvested base 50 Speed Pokemon such as Piloswine. Throh appreciates entry hazard support a lot, especially Spikes from setters such as Qwilfish and Coalossal. Spinblockers like Rotom and Gourgeist formes and fast Taunt users like Alolan Persian, Golbat, and Qwilfish can keep up these entry hazards. Rapid Spin users such as Kabutops and Morpeko also make for great partners. Additionally, most of them help handle physical attackers Throh struggles to beat such as Sawk and Silvally-Poison. Despite being a good special wall, Throh appreciates being paired with Pokemon that can handle Volt Switch like Stunfisk and Manectric; they prevent it from getting chipped by Electric-types like Rotom, Manectric, and Raichu and losing momentum. Throh can run a wallbreaker set with Flame Orb and Facade; however, it lacks a spammable powerful STAB move, since it is limited to Superpower and Storm Throw. Additionally, Sawk and Silvally-Fighting are usually preferred for their higher Speed tiers and better wallbreaking capabilities. Throh can also attempt to use a Bulk Up set with either Mold Breaker or Guts, with the former giving it the ability to ignore Pyukumuku's Unaware; however, Gurdurr is better at this role due to having Drain Punch for recovery and Mach Punch for priority. A physically defensive set is more effective at checking the likes of Silvally formes, Sawk, and Kangaskhan, but Throh struggles to absorb status without a specially defensive spread.
Eternatus (SS competitive strategy): Eternatus is one of the big three threats in Ubers due to its ability to check Yveltal, causing it to be found on the vast majority of teams. Additionally, it's the premier Kyogre check thanks to its typing, great bulk, Speed, reliable recovery, and access to strong damaging and support moves. It also provides important role compression and soft checks a variety of threats, most notably Ho-Oh and Marshadow. Eternatus is also an offensively threatening Pokemon in its own right with its high offensive stats, backed by strong attacks such as Dynamax Cannon, Sludge Bomb, Flamethrower, and Meteor Beam. Eternatus is one of the best poison spreaders around with access to Toxic, Toxic Spikes, and Sludge Bomb; it is also immune to Toxic and clears opposing Toxic Spikes. Although Pressure is a mostly useless ability, Eternatus does at least have the attributes to realistically PP stall when utilized on defensive teams. Simply put, Eternatus is a highly customizable Pokemon that can adapt its moveset, item, and EV spread to accommodate its team's weaknesses. However, apart from a Water-type resistance and Toxic immunity, its defensive typing isn't great; it takes heavy damage from Psychic-, Ground-, Ice-, and Dragon-type moves, which are all fairly common. This set serves as a solid special wall, capable of checking Yveltal and Kyogre. Flamethrower hits Steel-types, which are immune to Toxic and resist Eternatus's Dragon-type STAB moves. Flamethrower is typically used over Mystical Fire for its significantly higher Base Power and possibility to burn Necrozma-DM; however, it can be dropped to prevent special attackers from breaking past Eternatus. Sludge Bomb prevents Xerneas from setting up in front of Eternatus and can poison foes that often switch into it, such as Ho-Oh. Toxic Spikes may be used over Sludge Bomb as a niche method of spreading poison even when Eternatus is not on the field. Since Eternatus often switches into Yveltal, it will usually absorb Knock Off, limiting the practicality of certain items. Heavy-Duty Boots is used to eliminate entry hazards' impact on Eternatus without entry hazard removal. A combination of Draco Meteor and Eject Pack may be used to gain early offensive momentum. Draco Meteor also affords Eternatus extra power, which can be especially helpful against Marshadow, and gives it an option to escape trappers like Block Kyogre and Dugtrio. 92 Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow Eternatus to outspeed Adamant Marshadow, along with key threats such as non-Choice Scarf Kyogre, Yveltal, Landorus, and Palkia; the remaining EVs are used to maximize special bulk to better tackle Yveltal and Kyogre. Several different Speed benchmarks can be utilized, most notably 24 EVs with a Timid nature to outspeed Landorus in exchange for additional special bulk. Shuca Berry, Haban Berry, and Sitrus Berry are all consumable items that fit Eternatus's tendency to tank Knock Off and limit its risk against Poltergeist Marshadow while also allowing customization for teams to increase Eternatus's durability against certain offensive threats. Black Sludge may be used to increase the difficulty of 2HKOing Eternatus and reduce the effects of entry hazards over time. Specially defensive Eternatus is one of the most important role compressors in the tier and finds itself on a wide variety of teams without requiring any specific teammates or support. Other defensive Pokemon such as Necrozma-DM, Yveltal, and Xerneas naturally find themselves paired with Eternatus on bulky offense and balance teams. Sun team staples such as Groudon and Ho-Oh need a strong defense against Kyogre, which begins with Eternatus. Meteor Beam requires a Power Herb but lets Eternatus blast through Ho-Oh and Yveltal, both of which are common Defoggers, and boosts Special Attack to increase its potency as a cleaner or wallbreaker. Sludge Bomb hits Fairy-types, mainly Xerneas, which can be very important for offense teams that struggle to prevent it from switching in and setting up. Sludge Wave is interchangeable with Sludge Bomb as a marginally more powerful STAB option with a lower chance to inflict poison; it should be noted that poison can be especially effective against Yveltal, Kyogre, and Lunala, and it typically doesn't miss out on any significant KOs. Substitute pairs well with Thunder Wave users, most notably Necrozma-DM, to help Eternatus function as a setup sweeper. Flamethrower is an important coverage move for common Steel-types that resist Dynamax Cannon, such as Necrozma-DM, Ferrothorn, and Excadrill, and also lets Eternatus bust through other defensive Pokemon such as Tangrowth, Shedinja, Skarmory, Magearna, and Corviknight. Toxic Spikes can be utilized in the first moveslot for teams that capitalize on spreading poison or stacking entry hazards. Meteor Beam Eternatus is typically limited to hyper offense teams that maintain momentum, especially in the entry hazard war, and do not require a more sturdy, reactive Eternatus to keep Pokemon such as Kyogre, Yveltal, and Ho-Oh in check. Apart from this, Eternatus is an important Pokemon that finds itself on many teams and doesn't require any specific support to function. Meteor Beam Eternatus will nearly always finds itself paired with Yveltal to offensively cover Calyrex-S, one of the few Pokemon capable of revenge killing it. Thunder Wave Necrozma-DM is another natural match that is equally offensively inclined. Major offensive threats such as Calyrex-S, Kyogre, and Zygarde-C are great partners to match with Meteor Beam Eternatus that take advantage of its important role compression. Offensive entry hazard removal, such as Cloyster or Aerodactyl is appreciated to remove Sticky Web, which robs Meteor Beam Eternatus of its ability to clean. Due to Eternatus's high Speed, immunity to Toxic, access to Recover, and Pressure, Cosmic Power turns it into one of the metagame's hardest Pokemon to stop. Notably, Cosmic Power improves the matchup against certain Kyogre sets such as Block and SubCM. Meteor Beam gives Eternatus a useful secondary attack that also boosts its Special Attack stat. Since this set tends to prolong games, Dragon Pulse is the preferred STAB option due to its much higher PP. However, Dynamax Cannon is useful to bluff other Eternatus sets; in particular, this can lure in Ho-Oh, which is KOed by Meteor Beam after taking Dynamax Cannon. The given Speed EVs with Timid outspeed Jolly Marshadow, which could otherwise steal Eternatus's boosts with Spectral Thief. The rest are dumped into Special Defense and HP to better take on Kyogre. Alternative items such as Shuca Berry, Haban Berry, Air Balloon, Heavy-Duty Boots, and Black Sludge are all viable options that can patch up structural weaknesses on your team. While this set may appear extremely hard to stop, it has a few weaknesses. Due to its lack of Fire-type coverage, Steel-types such as Necrozma-DM and Ferrothorn can be hard to muscle through. Necrozma-DM can paralyze Eternatus and fish for flinches with Iron Head or use it to set up. Ferrothorn's Leech Seed also causes significant problems. Calyrex-S can cripple Eternatus with Trick, Blissey can stall it with Confide, and Groudon can force it out through pure strength. Meteor Beam's charge turn without Power Herb can also prove detrimental, allowing Ho-Oh to force it out with Whirlwind or Zygarde to switch in and paralyze with Glare. Additionally, this set starts out more passive than other Eternatus sets, since it can't spread status with Toxic and it can't punish Steel-type switch-ins. Due to all these factors, Eternatus serves best as an endgame wincon, meaning that it has to rely on its teammates to do much of the wallbreaking. Switch-ins to Necrozma-DM like Groudon, Zygarde, Zekrom, and Kyogre work well, and all are strong wallbreakers in their own right. Choice Band Galarian Darmanitan, Rayquaza, and Calyrex-I deserve mention as teammates that can lure in and KO or heavily damage Necrozma-DM; meanwhile, Magnezone can trap and eliminate most Necrozma-DM. Non-Eternatus Knock Off absorbers such as defensive Xerneas, Zygarde, Buzzwole, and Zamazenta-C are great to to keep Power Herb; additionally, the aforementioned teammates love Meteor Beam surprising and nailing Ho-Oh. While this Eternatus set does well against many Kyogre, Ice Beam sets pose a risk through freeze and critical hits; therefore, backup Kyogre responses such as Marshadow's Spectral Thief, Zekrom, and Ferrothorn are appreciated. Dynamax Cannon sets can lure in and KO Ho-Oh, opening up holes for Calyrex-S, bulky setup Necrozma-DM, and Xerneas to exploit. Xerneas additionally provides Aromatherapy support, and Geomancy sets can force Blissey to run out of Confide PP. Life Orb gives Eternatus immediate and reliable wallbreaking power, letting it function as both a versatile wallbreaker and cleaner at once. Recover is an important move, even on Life Orb Eternatus, allowing it to switch in more frequently and stick around longer; this is especially important due to Eternatus's status as an offensive check to Kyogre. However, on hyper offense teams, it is possible for Eternatus to run Meteor Beam with Sludge Bomb instead of Recover. Flamethrower is an important coverage move for common Steel-types that resist Dynamax Cannon, such as Necrozma-DM, Ferrothorn, and Excadrill, and also lets Eternatus bust through other defensive Pokemon such as Tangrowth, Shedinja, Skarmory, Magearna, and Corviknight. Sludge Bomb importantly hits Fairy-types, particularly Xerneas, which offensive teams often struggle with. Sludge Wave is interchangeable with Sludge Bomb as a marginally more powerful STAB option with a lower chance to inflict poison, although the status is especially effective against Yveltal, Kyogre, and Lunala, and it typically doesn't miss out on any significant KOs. Toxic Spikes can be utilized over a Poison-type move or Meteor Beam for teams that capitalize on spreading poison or stacking entry hazards. The given EV spread maximizes Special Attack while still outspeeding Palkia and offers better special bulk for offensively checking Kyogre. Life Orb Eternatus is typically limited to hyper offense or bulky offense teams that maintain momentum and do not require a more sturdy, reactive Eternatus to keep Pokemon such as Kyogre, Yveltal, and Ho-Oh in check. Apart from this, Eternatus is an important Pokemon that finds itself on many teams and doesn't require any specific support to function. Life Orb Eternatus excels with sun and Spikes support to break its greatest check, Necrozma-DM, so Groudon and offensive Spikers such as Cloyster make for some of the best teammates. Eternatus virtually always finds itself paired with Yveltal, which is used on nearly all offensive teams to cover Calyrex-S, one of the few Pokemon capable of revenge killing Eternatus. Major offensive threats such as Calyrex-S, Kyogre, and Zygarde-C are natural partners to match with Life Orb Eternatus and take advantage of its important role compression. Entry hazard removal, particularly from offensive teammates such as Cloyster and Aerodactyl is appreciated to reduce Life Orb's impact and the frequency that Eternatus needs to use Recover; it also removes Sticky Web, which is very detrimental to Eternatus. At the cost of checking Kyogre and standard Yveltal sets, Eternatus can invest in Defense to better check Choice Band Ho-Oh, Black Glasses and Choice Band Yveltal, Marshadow, and niche offensive threats such as Urshifu and Dracovish. Flamethrower is run over Mystical Fire because physically defensive Eternatus should be paired with a Kyogre check, and Flamethrower has better damage output against defensive Steel-types and comes with a chance to burn. Mystical Fire still hits Steel-types hard while preventing special attackers from breaking through Eternatus if not using dedicated specially defensive sponges such as Blissey and Ferrothorn. Heavy-Duty Boots is used to eliminate entry hazards' impact on Eternatus without entry hazard removal. Black Sludge may be used to make it more difficult for foes to 2HKO Eternatus and reduces the effects of entry hazards over time. 216 Speed EVs allow Eternatus to outspeed neutral-natured Marshadow; the remaining EVs maximize physical bulk while recovering as much as possible with Black Sludge. An alternate EV spread of 176 HP / 240 Def / 92 Spe with a Timid nature slightly reduces Eternatus's physical bulk while gaining some substantial increases in special bulk to better check Kyogre. With physically defensive Eternatus, another Kyogre check is required, such as Ferrothorn, Palkia, or Blissey. Blissey is notable for serving as a blanket check to most special attackers, which could beat physically defensive Eternatus, while Eternatus checks several physical threats in return. Giratina is a notable partner for defensive teams; together, they provide a strong PP stall core. Additionally, physically defensive Eternatus provides important role compression, finding itself on a wide variety of teams without requiring any specific teammates or support. Dragon Tail can be used to phaze setup sweepers and other common specially defensive switch-ins to Eternatus such as Ho-Oh and Blissey. An offensive set with Agility can be utilized as a bulky cleaner that, after a turn of setup, can outspeed the entire tier, including Choice Scarf Calyrex-S.
Eternatus (SV competitive strategy): Eternatus has solidified itself as the premier special attacker in the Ubers tier. Eternatus thrives on its exceptional bulk, great typing, and consistent damage output, allowing it to adapt to many team compositions. A Timid nature mainly helps Eternatus to keep its Speed advantage against most foes except Koraidon and Deoxys-A, while Modest secures critical KOes such as Fire Blast OHKOing Zacian-C and Dynamax Cannon having a 70% chance to 2HKO maximum HP Kyogre. Not only does Sludge Bomb threaten lethal damage to Arceus-Fairy, but it also pressures passive checks like Ho-Oh and Blissey by threatening poison, which drains their recovery PP and enables Eternatus to win prolonged encounters. Tera Dragon amplifies Dynamax Cannon, enabling feats like 2HKOing physically defensive Ho-Oh and 3HKOing Ting-Lu. It is best suited for wallbreaking, as it offers minimal defensive utility aside from removing its Psychic and Ground weaknesses. Tera Fire, on the other hand, grants STAB on Fire Blast and eliminates its Dragon and Psychic weaknesses, which is crucial against Koraidon, Mewtwo, and opposing Eternatus. It also lets Eternatus resist Steel and Fairy-type attacks, easing pressure against Zacian-C and Necrozma-DM. Eternatus's versatility lets it thrive on diverse array of team structures. On hyper offense, it serves as a durable pivot that pressures teams early with Life Orb-boosted attacks and Recover, which stalls out their attacking PP and opens them up to other special attacking teammates. On balance or bulky teams, it acts as a late-game sweeper, supported by entry hazards and status to wear down foes. Its ability to absorb Toxic Spikes is invaluable for teammates like the Arceus formes and Koraidon. Notably, Koraidon's sun support enhances Fire Blast's potency, while Eternatus's resistances to Fire and Water aid Zacian-C and Necrozma-DM in handling Ho-Oh and pivoting into Kyogre, though caution is advised against Kyogre, as it 2HKOes Eternatus with Choice Scarf Water Spout or negates its Speed advantage through Thunder Wave. Special attackers like Arceus with Judgment and Mewtwo appreciate Eternatus overwhelming shared checks such as Blissey, Ho-Oh, and Ting-Lu. Eternatus's combination of raw power, status-spreading utility, and unmatched bulk makes it a nightmare for defensive teams, especially with the low PP of recovery moves and absence of cleric support in the tier. Pressure synergizes seamlessly with Recover, enabling it to stall out the moves of foes over time.
Overqwil (SV competitive strategy): Overqwil is an amazing wallbreaker, entry hazard setter, and setup sweeper thanks to its remarkable Attack, good Speed, and decent utility movepool. On rain teams, Overqwil synergizes with the best rain sweeper in the tier, Basculegion-M, amazingly, since Overqwil handles the bulkier Grass-types that can take Basculegion-M's Wave Crash like Wo-Chien and Amoonguss and checks Ghost-types that try to revenge kill it as well such as Shadow Sneak Decidueye. In return, Basculegion-M takes care of Ground-types like Gligar and Swampert that can stump Overqwil. Overqwil's typing and access to Intimidate let it check many top threats like Incineroar, Munkidori, and the aforementioned Decidueye, and its access to Spikes lets it capitalize on these traits quite well. It isn't completely useless against walls like Vaporeon, Amoonguss, and Milotic either, since it can punish them with moves like Taunt and Toxic. However, even with Overqwil's access to Water-type coverage moves like Liquidation, Ground-types like Gligar, Swampert, and Flygon can still be problematic for it to handle, and they can often capitalize on it by setting up their hazards. Not only that, but thanks to their naturally high Defense, Steel-types like Duraludon and Copperajah also do a pretty good job at checking Overqwil, tanking a +2 Crunch and, in the latter's case, a Life Orb-boosted one as well. Additionally, common fast Pokemon like Flamigo, Paldean Tauros-W, Inteleon, and Kilowattrel easily prey on Overqwil's poor ability to handle repeated strong attacks, especially special ones. Overqwil's poor special bulk also leaves it vulnerable to powerful wallbreakers like Porygon-Z, Goodra, and Tornadus, which can easily break through it. Throat Chop blocks moves like Sylveon's Hyper Voice, providing setup opportunities for Overqwil, but Crunch has the chance to drop a foe's Defense, possibly letting Overqwil break through bulkier Pokemon more easily. Scale Shot, which is always paired with Loaded Dice, boosts Overqwil's Speed, letting it outpace fast Pokemon like Scyther, Kilowattrel, and Inteleon, and it acts as a powerful neutral coverage move against the tier. Liquidation allows Overqwil to break through Ground-types like Gligar and Flygon, while Aqua Jet lets it pick off faster threats like Flamigo, Cinccino, and Kilowattrel. Life Orb lets Overqwil OHKO Galarian Slowbro, Gligar, and Toxicroak with +2 Throat Chop or Crunch, Liquidation after Stealth Rock damage, and Gunk Shot, respectively. Clear Amulet lets Overqwil not worry about Incineroar's Intimidate, Galvantula's Sticky Web, and Brambleghast's Strength Sap though. Tera Dragon boosts Scale Shot and provides Overqwil with a solid defensive typing, letting it take attacks from Pokemon like Inteleon, Chandelure, and Rotom-H. On the other hand, Tera Water allows Overqwil to OHKO Paldean Tauros-F with a +1 Liquidation and means Overqwil can better take on Water- and Fire-types such as Milotic, Basculegion-M, and Incineroar. Tera Flying, however, allows Overqwil to handle Flygon, Toxicroak, and Breloom much more easily while providing it with setup opportunities against them. Leads such as Galvantula and Focus Sash Cinccino can easily aid Overqwil in sweeping, but ones like Eject Pack Flygon and Spikes setters like Brambleghast as well as Froslass can do that while also drawing in Grass- and Dark-types, respectively, gifting Overqwil setup opportunities. Overqwil easily handles Psychic- and Poison-types like Bronzong, Munkidori, Galarian Slowbro, and Amoonguss, which can pave the way for sweepers like Porygon-Z, Munkidori, Scyther, Diancie, and Infernape. Since Overqwil has trouble with breaking through Steel-types like Copperajah and Duraludon, partners that can beat them easily like Flygon, Paldean Tauros-W, Paldean Tauros-F, Breloom, and Chandelure are greatly appreciated. In a similar vein, Pokemon that weaken these Steel-types like Uxie, Diancie, Cinccino, Toxtricity, and Porygon-Z also work well alongside Overqwil. Ground-types like Gligar, Swampert, and Gastrodon could also be problematic, especially if Overqwil runs Scale Shot, so it should pair with teammates that can take advantage of them such as Paldean Tauros-W, Breloom, and Decidueye. Throat Chop's ability to block sound moves like Sylveon's Hyper Voice as well as Scream Tail's and Toxtricity's Boombursts makes it preferred over Crunch, though Crunch has the chance to drop the foe's Defense and possibly make breaking through bulkier Pokemon easier. Liquidation hits Ground-types that try to switch into Overqwil's Gunk Shot like Flygon, Gligar, and Swampert, and it gets boosted by rain. Aqua Jet can be run over Swords Dance, though, so that Overqwil can have a way to pick off threats like Kilowattrel, Cinccino, and Infernape outside of rain. Life Orb is preferred, since it allows Overqwil to always OHKO Toxicroak with a +2 Gunk Shot, Galarian Slowbro with a +2 Throat Chop or Crunch, and Gligar with a +2 Liquidation under rain. However, Clear Amulet means Overqwil doesn't need to worry about Sticky Web, Intimidate, and Strength Sap from foes like Galvantula, Paldean Tauros-W, and Brambleghast, respectively. An Adamant nature allows Overqwil to achieve many rolls, including the aforementioned ones with Life Orb, but a Jolly nature lets it outspeed Unburden Hitmonlee, neutral-natured Kingdra as well as Overqwil, and +1 Cinccino under rain. Tera Water boosts Liquidation and Aqua Jet while giving Overqwil a decent defensive typing, but Tera Flying gifts it the ability to take Close Combat and Earthquake from foes such as Heracross and Flygon, giving it more chances to set up and fire off attacks. Rain setters like Tornadus, Klefki, and Uxie are necessary partners. Additionally, they each provide unique benefits; Tornadus offers Taunt as well as fast pivoting, Klefki brings Spikes as well as speed control in Thunder Wave, and Uxie has access to Knock Off to ensure its Stealth Rock affects all foes. Overqwil is a great rain sweeper that complements Basculegion-M perfectly: Overqwil handles the Water-resistant Pokemon that can take Basculegion-M's Wave Crash like Wo-Chien, Amoonguss, and Milotic; gets free entry on them with Basculegion-M's Flip Turn; checks Decidueye, which can revenge kill it with Shadow Sneak; and nails the Water-immune Pokemon that switch in on it like Vaporeon, Toxicroak, and Gastrodon. In return, Basculegion-M beats Ground-types that Overqwil can have issues with beating sometimes like Gligar and Palossand. Other rain sweepers like Ludicolo and Kingdra are also appreciated, since the former can reliably beat Water-resistant or -immune Pokemon like Milotic, Vaporeon, and Gastrodon more reliably, while the latter dents the same Pokemon quite easily and is extremely fast under rain. Even though Overqwil can beat Water-types, since the rest of its teammates often struggle with them, it's a good idea to have partners like Kilowattrel, Toxicroak, and Decidueye. Pokemon such as Flygon and Gligar as well as the aforementioned Klefki and Uxie can set up entry hazards, allowing Overqwil and its teammates to wallbreak more easily. Barb Barrage complements more defensive EV spreads really well with how it easily spreads poison, while Gunk Shot works better on offensive EV spreads with the sheer power it provides. Throat Chop blocks sound moves like Sylveon's Hyper Voice as well as Toxtricity's and Scream Tail's Boombursts. Pain Split provides Overqwil with a manner of recovery, but Taunt means it can bother walls, stopping them from setting entry hazards, boosting their stats, or healing up. Haze can clear stat boosts from Pokemon like Bronzong, Sylveon, and Decidueye, though. Heavy-Duty Boots lets Overqwil pivot in and out without worry of hazards chipping it, but Leftovers gives it passive healing. Rocky Helmet could also be used, though Overqwil often switches into Pokemon that carry Knock Off like Incineroar, Alolan Muk, and Tsareena. A defensive EV spread of 252 HP / 40 Def / 216 Spe with a Jolly nature allows Overqwil to handle Incineroar's and Paldean Tauros-W's attacks while letting it outpace Basculegion-M and Chandelure, but investing into its Attack lets it double up as a wallbreaker. Tera Fairy lets Overqwil handle Flygon as well as Paldean Tauros-F, maintains its Dark resistance, and gives it a well-rounded defensive typing, while Tera Steel offers it multiple useful resistances, letting it take attacks like Cinccino's Tail Slap, Sylveon's Hyper Voice, and Kilowattrel's Hurricane. Tera Flying allows Overqwil to take on Ground- and Fighting-types like Flygon, Flygon, and Breloom. Overqwil's ability to check Munkidori, Galarian Slowbro, Alolan Muk, and Decidueye makes it a prime partner for Flamigo, Breloom, Decidueye, and Paldean Tauros-W, and on top of that, they all enjoy it setting up Spikes. However, if Overqwil wants to take full advantage of its Spikes, it requires Knock Off users, making Pokemon like Cinccino, Tornadus, Copperajah, and Gligar great teammates. To add on to Overqwil's Spikes, Stealth Rock setters like the latter two as well as Flygon and Bronzong work well alongside it. Overqwil easily falls to Fighting- and Ground-types such as Paldean Tauros-W, Toxicroak, and Flygon, so partners like Sylveon, Dragalge, Gligar, and Amoonguss work amazingly. Special walls like Porygon2, Gastrodon, Diancie, and Bronzong work well to check Pokemon like Chandelure, Inteleon, Tornadus, and Sylveon that try to take advantage of Overqwil's lower Special Defense. Swords Dance sets can run Agility instead of Scale Shot or another coverage move, which allows Overqwil to more quickly outspeed many Pokemon like Basculegion-M as well as Ludicolo under rain, Speed Booster Energy Scream Tail, and Choice Scarf users like Flygon and Infernape. However, its passivity compared to Scale Shot usually means it gets disregarded. More defensive Spikes sets can run Toxic to chip away at walls like Milotic, Incineroar, and Swampert, and in spreading poison, it can boost Barb Barrage. In a similar way, Toxic Spikes is usable, though common grounded Poison-types like Galarian Slowbro, Alolan Muk, and opposing Overqwil can render it useless. Air Balloon is useful, especially on offensive sets, since it lets Overqwil take advantage of Gligar, Torterra, and Choice-locked Flygon. In rain, Overqwil can capitalize on the one-time boost that Tera Stellar gives all of its moves to achieve similar rolls to Life Orb, namely, after a Swords Dance, OHKOing Toxicroak with Gunk Shot; Galarian Slowbro with Crunch; and, after Stealth Rock damage, Gligar with Liquidation. Because of this, going with Tera Stellar opens up Overqwil's item, which means it can run Clear Amulet to avoid Paldean Tauros-W's Intimidate, Brambleghast's Strength Sap, and Sticky Web.
Dondozo (SV competitive strategy): With massive physical bulk and Unaware, Dondozo is a robust physical wall that is capable of checking some of the tier's most prevalent threats, such as Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Kingambit. Waterfall is Dondozo's STAB move of choice, with high PP and lack of a drawback, and does decent damage to potential switch-ins like Gholdengo and Iron Valiant looking to scare Dondozo out, while Body Press can instead more effectively handle the likes of Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott and let Dondozo hit Ogerpon-W. Curse can make Dondozo a potent threat, increasing both its offensive potential and defensive capabilities, including letting it better check potent threats like Tera Dark Kingambit. Avalanche can be run instead to threaten Dragonite and punish Grass-types like Rillaboom and Serperior that might otherwise fearlessly switch into Dondozo. RestTalk helps Dondozo stay healthy and avoid status while potentially continuing to make progress or set up, depending on the Sleep Talk rolls. The recovery from Leftovers is highly needed, but on teams that lack strong hazard removal then Heavy-Duty Boots can be considered instead. Tera Fighting powers up Dondozo's Body Press, allowing it to get more mileage out of its naturally high Defense and Curse boosts, and lets it more effectively check Kingambit, particularly Black Glasses + Tera Dark variants that can run through stall teams with enough Supreme Overlord boosts. Tera Dark can help Dondozo check special attackers like Dragapult, Gholdengo, and Hoopa-U in a pinch as well as non-Low Kick Kingambit variants. Tera Dragon can be used to check Ogerpon-W, which can give bulkier teams trouble while still keeping its Fire resistance; this variant should have either Body Press or Avalanche as to threaten Ogerpon-W through Water Absorb. Dondozo is generally found on bulkier teams, especially stall, that appreciate its ability to easily check a number of threatening setup sweepers and fearsome physical attackers while also capable of tolerating its passivity. Despite its enormous physical bulk, Dondozo's special bulk leaves much to be desired, so it pairs well with specially defensive walls like Blissey and Clodsire that can handle Pokemon like Raging Bolt, Darkrai, and Dragapult. Entry hazard removers like Galarian Weezing and Corviknight are necessary partners, even running both of them at once, letting Dondozo run Leftovers while also doubling as checks to Rillaboom and Meowscarada. Running Tera Grass on Galarian Weezing or Tera Dragon on Corviknight for the Ogerpon-W matchup gives Dondozo more freedom to run Tera Fighting or Tera Dark as well. Dondozo is a passive Pokemon that is checked by other bulky Pokemon like Alomomola, which can also use it as fodder to pass Wishes to Pokemon like Ursaluna, and Clefable, and so it benefits from teammates like Gliscor and Clefable that have more offensive presence and can make progress against them while also acting as Knock Off absorbers for it. Alomomola is a great partner for passing Wish to Dondozo, helping it be less reliant on Rest for recovery as well as potentially burning physical threats like Kingambit and Weavile to help it take as little damage as possible from stronger physical attackers. Ogerpon-W is particularly annoying for Dondozo thanks to Water Absorb and is difficult to check without using Tera, so teammates like Hydrapple and the niche Amoonguss that can handle it while also helping against threats like Rillaboom are appreciated, letting Dondozo forgo Tera Dragon. On balance teams, offensive partners like Cinderace and Weavile help threaten Dondozo's offensive checks like Rillaboom and Raging Bolt, with the former further providing hazard control thanks to Court Change.
Amoonguss (XY competitive strategy): Amoonguss is a solid pivot in the OU metagame with a defensive typing that allows it to check threats such as Keldeo, Azumarill, Mega Diancie, and Breloom. It possesses an excellent ability in Regenerator, which allows it to heal by switching out rather than using a turn for Synthesis. One of Amoonguss's best traits is that it learns Spore, which is an excellent move to cripple a member of the opposing team with. While Amoonguss is very solid, it has competition as a bulky Grass-type from Mega Venusaur, Ferrothorn, and Tangrowth, which all have more offensive presence. Amoonguss is also extremely slow, and after Spore has been used it can be rather passive and easy to switch into. Spore is a must-have on Amoonguss to cripple one Pokemon on the opposing team, and Giga Drain allows Amoonguss to stay somewhat healthy, while threatening Water-types it naturally checks. Clear Smog removes stat boosts from Pokemon such as Clefable and Serperior, while Stun Spore can be used as a secondary status moves to catch opponents off guard when they think they're safe after Spore has been used. Hidden Power Fire is an option to hit Ferrothorn and Scizor, both of which can otherwise wall Amoonguss. Sludge Bomb can be used for a stronger STAB move than Clear Smog with a 30% chance to poison the foe. Foul Play can also be used to punish setup sweepers such as Landorus-T and Mega Scizor if something on the opposing team is already sleeping while also being able to deal heavy damage to the likes of Mega Metagross. 248 HP EVs reduce damage from entry hazards and maximize Amoonguss's overall bulk. 92 Special Defense EVs allow Amoonguss to avoid the 2HKO from Choice Specs Keldeo's Icy Wind, while the other EVs are poured into Defense with a Bold nature to better take on Pokemon such as Azumarill, Breloom, and Mega Lopunny. Regenerator allows Amoonguss to heal up upon switching out. Black Sludge is chosen to restore HP and is superior to Leftovers to punish Pokemon that wish to switch items with Trick. An alternate spread of 248 HP / 200 Def / 60 SpD with a Calm Nature can be used to avoid the 2HKO from Life Orb Thundurus's Hidden Power Ice with Stealth Rock up. Switch Amoonguss in on Pokemon such as Keldeo, Serperior, Breloom, and Azumarill early game to force them out. It can also switch into Rotom-W, but Rotom-W can easily bail out with Volt Switch. If Amoonguss switches in on a Volt Switch from Rotom-W, a counter to Amoonguss is likely going to come out, so be careful of this. Utilize Amoonguss as a pivot, double switching out of the things it checks to keep up momentum. Analyze what Pokemon your opponent is most likely to let Amoonguss cripple with Spore, and try to use Spore on something else if possible. Stun Spore should be used as a follow-up after something has been put to sleep with Spore. Double switching with Amoonguss can be important because it can allow certain Pokemon such as Mega Venusaur to come in without any repercussion. Amoonguss can also be used as an answer to certain setup sweepers such as Clefable and Mega Altaria thanks to Clear Smog, so be sure to keep it healthy to prevent these Pokemon from sweeping. Amoonguss works well on teams with Tyranitar, which resists Psychic-, Flying-, and Fire-type attacks, while Amoonguss can take on Water-, Fairy-, and Fighting-type attacks in return. Amoonguss also checks key threats to sand teams such as Azumarill, Breloom, Celebi, and Keldeo, and Regenerator healing synergizes with this playstyle better than Mega Venusaur's Synthesis does. Water-types such as Slowbro and Rotom-W can check Fire-types such as Talonflame and Heatran, while Slowbro checks Mega Charizard X and Rotom-W checks Tornadus-T. Specially defensive Gastrodon is also a strong check to Fire-types and Tornadus-T, and it checks Mega Alakazam as well. Other Regenerator pivots such as Tornadus-T function well with Amoonguss for momentum purposes. Clefable can take on Latios, many variants of Tornadus-T, and Pokemon such as Kyurem-B and Weavile. Mega Scizor checks Psychic- and Ice-types and can pick off fast threats with its priority Bullet Punch. Heatran can check Psychic- and Flying-types while setting up Stealth Rock and pressuring opposing Grass- and Steel-types. Skarmory can take on powerful Ground-types and many Psychic-types for Amoonguss while being able to remove hazards or set them up. Hippowdon sets up Stealth Rock and checks many Fire-types for Amoonguss such as Talonflame and Mega Charizard X. Synthesis is an option for recovery, but generally Regenerator is the only healing necessary and Synthesis makes Amoonguss more passive. Toxic can be used to better wear down some switch-ins, but many of them are better targeted by other moves than Toxic. Hidden Power Ice can be used to better wear down some Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Garchomp.
Amoonguss (SM competitive strategy): Amoonguss's good defensive typing and mixed bulk make it a reliable defensive pivot. Key resistances to Grass, Electric, Water, Fairy, and Fighting enable it to check a large number of threats such as Primarina, Mega Altaria, and Zeraora, giving it a place on many balanced and bulky offensive teams. Amoonguss is able to do this reliably because of Regenerator, which gives it one-third of its maximum health upon switching out, making it hard to wear down. Another fantastic trait of Amoonguss is Spore, which lets it inflict guaranteed sleep on non-Grass-types. Despite Amoonguss's strengths, however, it possesses crippling weaknesses to Ice, Fire, Psychic, and Flying, which is amplified by the strong presence of Pokemon such as Mega Aerodactyl, Mamoswine, Moltres, and Latias. Amoonguss is also very passive because of its pitiful Speed stat and low offenses, which can make it setup fodder after Spore's been used. Spore is one of the main reasons to use Amoonguss, putting anything that isn't a Grass-type to sleep. Giga Drain is a consistent STAB move that also gets Amoonguss some health back. Hidden Power Fire is used to hit Steel-types such as Scizor and Cobalion, which otherwise completely wall Amoonguss. Sludge Bomb hits Celebi, Togekiss, and Primarina for more damage, the former two of which otherwise use Amoonguss as setup fodder. Stun Spore can be used to paralyze an unsuspecting foe that thinks it's safe after Spore's been used. Another option is Foul Play, which can hit Pokemon such as Mega Beedrill and Mega Aerodactyl pretty hard. 252 HP EVs and 80 Special Defense EVs allow Amoonguss to avoid the 2HKO from Choice Specs Primarina's Hydro Pump after Stealth Rock and guarantee that it survives Mega Manectric's Overheat after Stealth Rock. The remaining EVs, alongside a Bold nature, are placed in Defense to allow Amoonguss to take physical attacks more easily. However, a Calm nature can be used to always survive Psychic from Choice Specs Primarina after Stealth Rock at the cost of some physical bulk. Regenerator allows Amoonguss to consistently check special attackers such as Primarina and Rotom-C. Rocky Helmet allows Amoonguss to wear down U-turn users like Scizor and Hydreigon, but Black Sludge can also be used for extra longevity. Switch Amoonguss into the Pokemon that it checks, such as Primarina, Mega Altaria, and Mega Blastoise, but be wary of coverage options. Spore is often a good move to go for to put an opposing Pokemon to sleep, but refrain from using it too early on so that you can put something more important to sleep later. Utilize Regenerator a lot so that you keep Amoonguss as high on health as possible, because Amoonguss needs to be at high HP to check Primarina, Zeraora, and Mega Altaria. Water-types such as Alomomola, Slowbro, Suicune, and Volcanion work well with Amoonguss, as they can check Fire-types while Amoonguss checks Grass- and Electric-types. Alomomola and Slowbro form a solid Regenerator core with Amoonguss, as they can check many of the physical attackers that can break past it. Entry hazard removers such as Latias and Scizor are also appreciated, as not having to take the chip damage is ideal to handle the special attackers that Amoonguss checks. Latias and Starmie make for good picks, as they both resist Fire. Pursuit trappers such as Scizor, Krookodile, and Mega Aerodactyl can make for good teammates, as they can remove the Psychic-types that threaten Amoonguss. Pokemon that appreciate the setup opportunities that Amoonguss gives with Spore, such as Swords Dance Cobalion, Calm Mind Latias, and Swords Dance Terrakion, pair well with it. Steel-types such as Cobalion, Scizor, and Klefki can also patch up Amoonguss's Ice and Psychic weaknesses, but they do share a weakness in Fire. If running Stun Spore, teammates that appreciate Latias being paralyzed, such as Nidoking, make for good teammates. Seed Bomb is an option to get past Calm Mind users such as Suicune. Synthesis is also an option for reliable recovery on teams that are particularly weak to Primarina and want Amoonguss to always be able to answer it. Eject Button is an option, alongside Magneton, to trap and eliminate Scizor while giving Pokemon such as Mega Absol free switches.
Amoonguss (SS competitive strategy): Amoonguss is a potent defensive wall due to its good defensive typing, which enables it to check dangerous foes such as Azumarill, Primarina, and Zarude, combined with its access to Regenerator. Access to Spore allows Amoonguss to shut down an opposing foe completely, making it harder to play around and offensively check due to pressuring opponents to choose sleep fodder. Its Poison typing additionally gives it an edge over other common Grass-types, as it is able to threaten Tangrowth and Zarude with Sludge Bomb, which also prevents them from switching in to absorb Spore. However, despite Amoonguss's good defensive typing, it struggles against metagame staples like Salamence and Crobat. It can also be overwhelmed by Pokemon it is supposed to check due to their access to coverage, such as Ice Punch from Azumarill, Psychic from Primarina, and Air Slash from Keldeo. After using Spore, Amoonguss is easy to take advantage of by Pokemon that take little from its other moves such as Galarian Slowbro, Celesteela, Skarmory, and Cobalion. Amoonguss faces competition from Tangrowth as a defensive Grass-type wall, which can opt to run Assault Vest sets to check specially offensive foes such as Thundurus-T better, not be neutral to Excadrill and Zygarde-10%'s Ground-type STAB, and avoid being setup bait for Swords Dance Cobalion if something else has been hit with Spore. Spore shuts down Pokemon such as Moltres and Scizor, deterring them from wanting to pivot into it. This often requires an opposing team to use a Pokemon as sleep fodder, making it easier for Amoonguss's teammates to capitalize on. Stun Spore is an option that can be run over Spore to potentially cripple Pokemon like Celesteela, Cobalion, and Nihilego that would otherwise wall it once a Pokemon has been slept. It can also be used more often due to Sleep Clause. Giga Drain heavily damages Rotom-W and Keldeo, which Amoonguss naturally checks by virtue of its typing and bulk. It also enables Amoonguss to regain some HP, reducing the need for it to continually pivot for Regenerator recovery. Alternatively, Synthesis can be run to instantly regain health, though its low PP should be noticed, and Hippowdon's sand can limit the amount of health recovered by it. Sludge Bomb threatens Primarina, Zarude, and Azumarill. It is also useful for the chance to poison switch-ins such as Salamence and Mandibuzz. Foul Play dents physical attackers such as Gyarados and Scizor and prevents them from setting up on Amoonguss, and it is also Amoonguss's best way to damage other Steel-types such as Jirachi. Rocky Helmet punishes physical attackers Amoonguss switches into such as Azumarill and Zarude. Black Sludge is an alternative option that reduces Amoonguss's reliance on switching out to regain HP with Regenerator. Eject Button can be run so Amoonguss can pivot into a foe, take a hit, and bring in a teammate safely. 36 Special Defense EVs guarantee that Amoonguss can take a Choice Specs-boosted Psychic from Primarina as well as better check Keldeo. Amoonguss fits best on bulky offense, balance, and stall teams that appreciate its ability to blanket check dangerous metagame staples such as Tangrowth and Primarina. Chansey can take on special attackers like Nidoking, Moltres, and Salamence that can overwhelm Amoonguss. Checks to Moltres and Salamence, such as Hippowdon and Primarina, are useful partners that can switch into them and force it out. They also can take on Cobalion after Spore has been burned. Krookodile and Mandibuzz can check Psychic-types like Galarian Slowbro and Azelf. Mandibuzz also helps Amoonguss not get overwhelmed by Zygarde-10%. Slower wallbreakers like Conkeldurr appreciate Salamence and Skarmory being crippled by Stun Spore. Amoonguss is heavily threatened by Fire-types such as Moltres and Rotom-H, so checks to these such as Slowking and Swampert make good partners. Amoonguss is vulnerable to Stealth Rock and Spikes chip damage, and gives free opportunities for Pokemon such as Nihilego and Skarmory to set these after Spore has been used, so entry hazard removal support from partners such as Salamence and Excadrill enables it to switch in more often and prevents entry hazards from cancelling out its Regenerator recovery. Seed Bomb keeps Amoonguss from being set up on by Substitute + Calm Mind Primarina, but it does less damage to most other Water-types and loses out on the recovery of Giga Drain, not to mention a burn from Scald can render this move useless. Stomping Tantrum is an option to hit Nihilego and Cobalion for solid damage rather than rely on Spore to neuter them. Assault Vest allows Amoonguss to act as an even better check to special attackers like Keldeo and Thundurus-T, and it can still run utility moves like Spore due to Amoonguss's tendency to get hit with Knock Off.
Amoonguss (SV competitive strategy): Amoonguss is a strong physically defensive pivot thanks to its solid defensive typing, which has many relevant resistances to STAB moves from Pokemon like Florges, Milotic, and Pawmot while also allowing it to function as a solid check to Rhydon and Mudsdale. It also benefits from Regenerator as well as two great status moves in Toxic and Stun Spore to punish switch-ins and defensive Pokemon like the aforementioned. Toxic is useful for punishing common switch-ins like Bombirdier and Rotom-Heat, while Stun Spore is more niche but useful for punishing Pokemon immune to Toxic like Salazzle and Toxicroak. Foul Play hits Psychic-types like Hoopa and Delphox as well as some physical attackers like Ambipom harder than Giga Drain does. Hex also hits Hoopa but has a more limited pool of targets in exchange for synergizing well with Toxic or Stun Spore. Synthesis gives Amoonguss access to reliable recovery, letting it stay in longer, but it is not always needed thanks to Regenerator; however, Sludge Bomb's chance to poison threatens switch-ins like Rotom-Heat, which would otherwise be unafraid of switching into Stun Spore variants of Amoonguss. Stomping Tantrum is also an option to OHKO Salazzle, a Pokemon that Amoonguss is otherwise unable to do much against, and it is a better option in the Amoonguss mirror matchup than Giga Drain, Foul Play, or Hex. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Amoonguss to avoid entry hazard damage, which can rack up quickly and impact its Regenerator recovery. Rocky Helmet lets Amoonguss be less passive and rack up chip damage on physical attackers like Grimmsnarl and Triple Axel Alolan Sandslash while annoying U-turn users like Zoroark and Hisuian Decidueye. Eject Button synergizes well with Regenerator, giving Amoonguss's team a one-time pivot. Tera Water flips Amoonguss's matchups against threatening Fire-types like Arcanine and Paldean Tauros-F on their head; however, Tera Steel is more useful to patch up its Psychic-type weakness versus Pokemon such as Bruxish and Uxie while still keeping its stellar Florges matchup. Amoonguss's weakness to strong Fire-type Pokemon such as Salazzle, Arcanine, and Delphox needs to be managed by a partner. As such, it is recommended to run a Water-type like Milotic or Cramorant to cover them. Milotic can bring Amoonguss in on its own checks like Shaymin with Flip Turn, while Cramorant can remove entry hazards and allow more flexibility in Amoonguss's item slot. In return, Amoonguss can switch into Grass- and Electric-types such as Hisuian Decidueye and Pawmot. Amoonguss's Psychic-type weakness is also prevalent, leaving it weak to Pokemon such as Bruxish and Hoopa, so it is advised to use a Dark-type like Grimmsnarl or Bombirdier that can switch into these threatening Dark-types. These Dark-types appreciate Amoonguss covering Florges for them. Amoonguss fits best on bulky offense teams that appreciate a more reliable defensive option than offensive pivot, so bulky offense staples like Hisuian Avalugg and Lanturn are recommended as partners. Status from partners with Scald or Will-O-Wisp like Milotic and Rotom-Heat can boost Hex damage and prevent Amoonguss from taking as much damage from physical attackers.
Thievul (SS competitive strategy): Thievul is a deadly wallbreaker thanks to the combination of Choice Specs and Stakeout. Psychic OHKOes Fighting-types such as Sawk, Gurdurr, and Poliwrath with a Stakeout boost and serves as its strongest move for Fairy-types such as Alcremie and Clefairy. Despite its low base power, Burning Jealousy is Thievul's strongest option for Dark-types such as Skuntank, Shiftry, and Alolan Persian. Knock Off is an alternative that cripples Eviolite-reliant walls such as Clefairy and Type: Null, letting Thievul beat them later with its other moves. Thievul works best on offensive teams looking for a very powerful special wallbreaker. Physical wallbreakers such as Sawk, Rapidash, and Silvally formes can force in physical walls such as Qwilfish, Tangela, and Uxie, giving Thievul an opportunity to switch in. These partners can also break through specially defensive Pokemon that give Thievul a hard time, such as Clefairy, Articuno, and Alcremie. Since Fairy-, Dark-, and Fighting-types such as Clefairy, Silvally-Dark, and Sawk threaten Thievul, checks to these types, such as Rapidash, Gurdurr, and Rotom-S, are appreciated. VoltTurn users such as Thwackey, Uxie, and Rotom-S create opportunities for Thievul to activate Stakeout. Due to Thievul's average Speed tier, it struggles versus more offensive teams; therefore, fast Pokemon such as Froslass and Choice Scarf Sawk make for great partners. Thievul can be ran on Electric Terrain teams with Electric Seed, although the archetype isn't very effective. Thievul can use the combination of Throat Spray + Snarl or Sitrus Berry + Substitute to activate Unburden; however, these sets need several turns to set up and are often not worth using. Hyper Beam is Thievul's strongest move and an option on both sets to nuke Dark- and Fairy-types such as Silvally-Dark and Alcremie, but it is exploitable and gives the foe a free turn, and Thievul can outspeed and 2HKO most of these threats with its other moves. A Timid nature can be used on the Choice Specs set to give Thievul a better matchup against more offensive teams; however, a Modest nature lets Thievul break through special walls like Throh, Eviolite-less Clefairy, and Stunfisk with a boost from Stakeout.
Lurantis (SM competitive strategy): Lurantis is a good utility choice for teams with its decent defensive typing, good support options, access to the ability Contrary and most importantly access to Defog. A pure Grass typing, decent mixed defenses and Aromatherapy allows Lurantis to consistently switch into the majority of the hazard setters in the tier, including the most popular choices in Regirock, Mudsdale and Torterra, and clear their entry hazards. A pure Grass-typing also allows Lurantis to switch into Ground- and Water-type attacks from the likes of Alolan Dugtrio and Floatzel without much trouble, sponging attacks for teammates. On top of all of that, Lurantis is not as passive as most other Defog users, as it is capable of boosting its stats with Leaf Storm and Superpower through Contrary. However, Lurantis faces strong competition from other hazard removers with more utility, such as Skuntank, who is immune to Psychic-type moves and absorbs Toxic Spikes, or Hitmonchan, who boasts a superior Speed stat and can check special attackers like Cryogonal and Simisear. Lurantis also struggles with weaknesses to common attacking types, such as Fire and Flying from threats like Simisear and Oricorio-G, as well as reliance on low-PP moves like Leaf Storm and Aromatherapy. Defog is the main reason to use Lurantis, and it removes entry hazards from the entire field. Leaf Storm combined with Contrary gives Lurantis a strong STAB option that also increases Special Attack to keep Lurantis from being passive. Superpower is the preferred option in the third slot, as it can increase Lurantis's Defense and provides excellent coverage to hit common Grass-resistant Pokemon such as Alolan Sandslash and Ferroseed. Alternatively, Toxic can also be used to get reliable chip damage on most switch-ins like Eelektross. The last move is typically Aromatherapy, as Lurantis is taking negligable damage from the hazard setters it intends to switch into, such as Qwilfish and Metang, and Aromatherapy allows it to cure itself of status, easing switches into these same hazard setters. Alternatively, Synthesis can be used to allow Lurantis to switch into less passive physical attackers like Choice Scarf Kabutops, but Aromatherapy is generally preferred as Lurantis will often find itself being worn down by Toxic otherwise. Leftovers is chosen as the item, giving Lurantis a steady stream of healing that allows it to switch into weaker or resisted attacks, such as Regirock's Rock Slide or Mudsdale's Earthquake, without being forced to recover. Contrary should always be the ability, as the snowball effect Lurantis generates with Leaf Storm and Superpower is one of the stronger benefits of using Lurantis. Send Lurantis directly into hazard setters like Ferroseed and Torterra and use the free turns Lurantis generates as they switch out to Defog away entry hazards or cure itself of status with Aromatherapy. If the opponent is using a hazard setter that Lurantis can not switch into, such as Aggron or Roselia, try to conserve Lurantis and find an opportunity to bring it in against more passive Pokemon, such as Tangela, or against Pokemon it can immediately threaten, like defensive Jellicent or Poliwrath. It is important to remember that, even with Leaf Storm, Lurantis is not a wallbreaker or sweeper. The boosted Special Attack very rarely results in a sweep and instead finds a primary purpose in warding away less bulky attackers that may want to try and set up or other threats that may try to take advantage of Lurantis's perceived passivity such as Gurdurr. Lurantis is forced out by many threats in the tier, so making use of the turn that Lurantis is out by predicting threats to switch in and using the appropriate move is key to Lurantis's success. Teammates that patch Lurantis's weaknesses are always a good option, so teammates such as Lanturn for helping with the Fire and Flying weaknesses or Metang to cover the Poison weakness work well. Lurantis generally lets in common Grass-type switch-ins, such as Victreebel and Oricorio-E, so teammates that can take advantage of these switch-ins, such as Drampa and Rotom-F, are beneficial. Lurantis is a fairly reliable hazard removal option, and as such, Pokemon that appreciate having hazards removed like Jynx and Oricorio-G appreciate Lurantis's presence. Lurantis also acts as a reliable Ground- and Water-resistant Pokemon, so Fire-types such as Combusken and Simisear are excellent choices, as are Rock-types like Lycanroc and Aggron, with Lycanroc in particular having strong synergy with Lurantis, pressuring the Fire-, Ice-, Flying- and Bug-types that Lurantis struggles with. Volt Switch and U-turn users like Eelektross, Lanturn and Primeape work well with Lurantis, with Lanturn and Primeape notably luring in and pivoting on defensive Pokemon like Ferroseed and Mudsdale that Lurantis can abuse. Lurantis will also occasionally get rid of your own hazards, so having a reliable Stealth Rock setter like Regirock or Mudsdale is ideal. Physically based defensive Lurantis is an option to utilize its higher Attack stat and boasts powerful options like Superpower and Knock Off; however, due to the low power of STAB Leaf Blade and the Contrary Special Attack boosts of Leaf Storm, specially oriented Lurantis actually outputs more damage faster even with Superpower factored in. Specially defensive Lurantis is also an option to better take potential Water- and Electric-type hits from threats such as Lanturn, but physically defensive Lurantis is preferred due to the overall benefit of being able to freely switch in on the many powerful Ground-types in the tier such as Golurk. Hidden Power Ice can be used to hit Oricorio-E and Victreebel, but it's generally a suboptimal option and leaves Lurantis walled by Alolan Sandslash. A set with Rest and Sleep Talk is also a possibility for slowly bolstering Lurantis's stats, but forces Lurantis into using one attack or foregoing Defog. Giga Drain is also an option, giving Lurantis a second STAB attack with more PP and healing utility, but is not recommended over Toxic, Superpower or Aromatherapy, all of which are more useful in more situations. A Relaxed nature is also an option to not lower the damage of Superpower, but doing so means that Lurantis no longer outspeeds threats such as Throh.
Lurantis (SS competitive strategy): Lurantis combines a pure-Grass typing, serviceable mixed bulk, and strong Contrary move pool to effectively check common entry hazard setters like Rhydon, Stunfisk, and Qwilfish to either clear hazards with Defog or threaten to sweep. Leaf Storm is a strong STAB attack that boosts Lurantis’s Special Attack by two stages after each use due to Contrary. Superpower also benefits from Contrary, providing super effective Fighting coverage for Sap Sipper Miltank and Klinklang while also hitting Fire-types, Grass-types, and Articuno for neutral damage. Synthesis ensures Lurantis can remain healthy enough to repeatedly clear entry hazards or sustain itself for a Contrary sweep. 216 Speed EVs lets Lurantis outpace Adamant Rhydon and uninvested Alcremie. The remaining EVs are invested into bulk to better check physical entry hazard setters, notably allowing Lurantis to survive hits like +2 Stone Edge from standard Stealth Rock Rhydon. Lurantis is most valuable when clearing entry hazards but thanks to Contrary, Leaf Storm, and Superpower, Lurantis can often scale its damage output enough to break through the healing moves of bulkier cores. Rhydon, Palossand, and Stunfisk all specifically have trouble defeating Lurantis, which opens opportunities for teammates like Silvally-Poison and Rotom which are usually stopped by these Pokemon. Lurantis struggles greatly against bulky Poison- and Flying-type foes like opposing Silvally-Poison and Altaria. Lurantis is also quite slow, so it is forced out by any faster Pokemon, such as Rapidash, Ninetales, Froslass, Jinx, and Articuno. Klinklang is a good partner because of its resistances and ability to OHKO Ice-types with an unboosted Gear Grind. In return, Lurantis handles Stunfisk, Galarian Stunfisk, and Palossand, all of which commonly shrug off Klinklang’s moves. Rapidash and Coalossal are good teammates too because they check offensive Fire- and Ice-types, and Lurantis can handle opposing Rock- and Ground-types in turn. If entry hazard removal isn’t needed, Lurantis can run Aromatherapy over Defog to remove status that could cripple a Contrary sweep while curing its teammates in the process. Knock Off is also a useful fourth move to cripple switch-ins like Altaria and Tangela. Toxic is an option to put a timer on bulkier foes that resist Lurantis’s moves like Articuno but only compounds its weakness to opposing Poison-types. Setup support like Substitute and Safeguard can be useful, but Lurantis is often too slow to use these moves well and generally gains more advantage by simply using Leaf Storm or Superpower. Lurantis can also run a specially defensive set to check Rotom with the expectation that Superpower will then improve its Defense after one use. Heavy-Duty Boots is a good item for getting the most out of Defog, but Leftovers synergizes better with the high likelihood of staying in multiple turns to take advantage of Contrary. Leppa Berry can be used to remedy the PP issues Lurantis faces with Leaf Storm and Superpower and works especially well against Articuno's attempts to Pressure stall.
Lurantis (SV competitive strategy): Lurantis differentiates itself from other entry hazard removal options, since if it's let ignored, it can quickly spiral out of control and become difficult to switch into or take a hit from thanks to Contrary boosting Lurantis's stats as it goes for Leaf Storm and Superpower, which together allow Lurantis to tear through all hazard setters, including Regirock, Orthworm, and Sandslash. It also finds ample opportunities to come in with its mono-Grass typing, helping it switch in against common threats such as Jolteon, Rotom-Mow, Lanturn, and Whimsicott. However, these moves along with Synthesis come with low PP, often leading to Lurantis being stalled out by walls like Articuno and Dipplin, and Lurantis is not as offensive as it wishes to be without prior boosts. Even with its good resistances, Lurantis can find itself overwhelmed if it's being attacked on the defensive stat that it didn't invest in. For example, Snorlax can 2HKO specially defensive Lurantis with Heat Crash, and physically defensive Lurantis is vulnerable to Whimsicott due to how its Choice Specs Moonblast always nets a 2HKO. On top of that, its typing also lets it down quite often when facing down many top threats, such as Charizard, Glastrier, Hisuian Sneasel, and Vikavolt, and Lurantis can be forced to heal constantly with how easily it's chipped down by switching into foes that often use pivoting moves like Rotom-Mow, Lanturn, and Jolteon. Thanks to Lurantis's decent defenses, good resistances, lack of passivity thanks to Contrary, and positive matchups against common entry hazard setters like Regirock and Sandslash, it makes for a fine hazard remover with Defog. Superpower complements Leaf Storm quite well, both helping to overpower walls and nailing switch-ins to Lurantis like Abomasnow, Magneton, and Snorlax, and the Defense boost it offers also helps with Lurantis's longevity and survivability. However, Knock Off allows Lurantis to better punish more offensive foes like Charizard, Vikavolt, and Oricorio-F. With Contrary, Lurantis circumvents the issues of other walls like Orthworm, Lanturn, and Weezing, able to become a threat in its own right with the offensive boosts from Leaf Storm and Superpower. Lurantis's EV spread can go in either a specially defensive direction or a physically defensive one. Becoming specially bulky allows Lurantis to better stomach attacks from Clawitzer, Magneton, and Whimsicott. Alternatively, a physically defensive spread lets Lurantis handle physical attackers like Basculin and Sandslash more easily. Tera Poison offers Lurantis many useful resistances, namely to Fighting, Fairy, and Poison. This newfound defensive profile allows Lurantis to more comfortably handle Poison-types such as Hisuian Sneasel, Muk, and Weezing while improving its matchup against Whimsicott, making it able to stomach Moonblast better. By becoming a Poison-type, Lurantis can act as a Fighting-type check, switching into Passimian and Hitmontop while doubling as a Toxic Spikes absorber, aiding its team against users like Weezing. Tera Poison also sheds Lurantis's weakness to Ice-type attacks, meaning Lurantis can take out foes such as Glastrier, Abomasnow, and Beartic when they have low health in a pinch, though Tera Poison ruins Lurantis's matchup against Mesprit. Lurantis mainly offers Defog support, and it's often lacking in the bulk department, meaning it needs teammates that can better handle attacks than it can, as well as offensive partners that don't need entry hazards to break through the walls that it's bound to bring in. Offensive pivots such as Basculin, Jolteon, and Passimian appreciate Lurantis keeping hazards off the field, allowing them to continually switch in and pressure walls that Lurantis calls in like Muk and Dipplin. Charizard, Oricorio-F, and Vikavolt are notable for having great synergy with Lurantis, handling the pesky Ice-, Steel-, and Grass-types that give Lurantis trouble, like Articuno, Orthworm, and Dipplin. In return, Lurantis takes out counters to them, namely Regirock, Lanturn, and, with Superpower, Magneton. On top of that, Lurantis's Defog aids these three if they happen to lose their Heavy-Duty Boots due to Knock Off. Lurantis is also quite weak to opposing Oricorio-F and Charizard, so partners like Lanturn, Snorlax, and Regirock pair well with it. In a similar vein, Pokemon such as Poliwrath and Orthworm are good teammates to fend off Ice-type foes like Glastrier and Beartic. Lurantis capitalizing on the top bulky Water-type in Lanturn opens many doors for teammates like Glastrier, Lycanroc, Oricorio-F, and Clawitzer. Stealth Rock users such as Regirock, Mesprit, and Sandslash pair best with Lurantis, as its Defog isn't as detrimental as it would be on Spikes-stacking teams, and unlike spinners like Hitmontop and Sandslash, Lurantis can still clear hazards in front of Ghost-types like Mismagius and Spiritomb. Poison-types like Muk, Weezing, and Hisuian Sneasel are quite common and very problematic for Luranatis. This often leads it to pairing up with Pokemon like Sandslash, its own Hisuian Sneasel, Mesprit, and Spiritomb. Lurantis is easily taken advantage of by other Grass-types like Whimsicott, Dipplin, and Virizion; for this reason, it synergizes with Pokemon such as Charizard, Glastrier, and Weezing. Lurantis can forgo Defog for Knock Off, which allows it to simultaneously threaten common switch-ins to it like Charizard while still threatening entry hazard setters such as Orthworm. However, with the limited options for entry hazard removal in ZU, having to burden another teammate with that role is often impractical.
Hydrapple (SV competitive strategy): Hydrapple serves as a solid balance breaker, using its bulk and offensive prowess to handle threats like Excadrill while also being scary for foes like Tornadus-T and Metagross once it has set up Nasty Plot. It also has Regenerator to heal off any damage taken while checking these threats, allowing it to potentially repeat this process later in the game. Fickle Beam is an alternative move over Draco Meteor so Hydrapple can avoid the Special Attack drop while having a chance to deal more damage than Draco Meteor, allowing it to maintain its Nasty Plot boosts and to remain a big threat after firing it off. However using Fickle Beam means Hydrapple can miss out on KOs against foes like Zarude and Tornadus-T if the boost doesn't activate. Earth Power provides coverage for Steel-types like Tinkaton and Heatran so that they cannot easily come in to cause issues for Hydrapple. Heavy-Duty Boots serves to make Hydrapple's healing from Regenerator more effective while improving its longevity by removing its vulnerability to entry hazards, as it commonly has to utilize its great typing to switch into powerful wallbreakers like Excadrill and Ogerpon. Maximum HP and 92 Defense lets Hydrapple avoid the 2HKO from Choice Specs Keldeo's Secret Sword as well as making it incredibly difficult for physical attackers to break, letting it better soak up U-turn from Scizor, Lokix, and Zarude as well as powerful hits from wallbreakers like Ogerpon-C or Excadrill so that it can more easily set up Nasty Plot. Tera Steel improves its matchup against Ogerpon-C while also giving it a Toxic immunity to help against Toxapex and Mandibuzz, a Flying resistance so it can set up Nasty Plot in front of Tornadus-T, and a Fairy resistance useful for dodging an OHKO from Choice Band Azumarill's Play Rough in case of emergency. Tera Fairy lets it set up more easily on Latios and opposing Hydrapple without gaining weaknesses to Quaquaval and Weavile. However, Terastallizing Hydrapple removes its beneficial resistances to Ground and Electric, making it tougher to handle Volt Switch users such as Sandy Shocks and Rotom-W. Hydrapple acts as a solid wallbreaker for balance and bulky offensive playstyles, using its defensive profile to switch into foes that are offensively threatening or tough to break and then becoming a threat of its own. Slowking is a nice partner for it, forming a double Regenerator core that helps work around some problems for Hydrapple such as Tornadus-T and Tinkaton while acting a secondary Water resist in the event Hydrapple needs to Tera. Slowking also slow pivots to Hydrapple with Chilly Reception after soaking up a hit, allowing Hydrapple to either be a bigger threat due to having more HP or get its HP back from Regenerator more easiliy. Additionally, Slowking can use Thunder Wave against foes like Tinkaton and Mandibuzz to make them slower than Hydrapple, allowing it to more easily set up Nasty Plot. Cobalion is also a good teammate, defensively answering Scizor and Lokix, which can pose problems with their strong U-turn should they switch in on Hydrapple when it’s chipped. Hydrapple appreciates teammates that can help wear down Tinkaton into Earth Power range such as Lokix and Tornadus-T. It also appreciates Pokemon that can help pressure or defensively answer Flying-types such as Tyranitar or Rhyperior. Hydrapple appreciates Stealth Rock setters like the previously mentioned Cobalion and Rhyperior to get targets into range of its boosted attacks more easily. Sand teams appreciate Hydrapple's defensive profile in tandem with Regenerator, it can use an Eject Button to safely bring in Excadrill and act as check to opposing Excadrill and Keldeo, which can be scary for sand teams otherwise. Hydrapple serves as a solid balance breaker, using its bulk and offensive prowess to handle threats like Excadrill while also being scary for foes like Tornadus-T and Metagross once it has set up Nasty Plot. It also has Regenerator to heal off any damage taken while checking these threats, allowing it to potentially repeat this process later in the game. Fickle Beam is an alternative move over Draco Meteor so Hydrapple can avoid the Special Attack drop while having a chance to deal more damage than Draco Meteor, allowing it to maintain its Nasty Plot boosts and to remain a big threat after firing it off. However using Fickle Beam means Hydrapple can miss out on KOs against foes like Zarude and Tornadus-T if the boost doesn't activate. Earth Power provides coverage for Steel-types like Tinkaton and Heatran so that they cannot easily come in to cause issues for Hydrapple. Heavy-Duty Boots serves to make Hydrapple's healing from Regenerator more effective while improving its longevity by removing its vulnerability to entry hazards, as it commonly has to utilize its great typing to switch into powerful wallbreakers like Excadrill and Ogerpon. Maximum HP and 92 Defense lets Hydrapple avoid the 2HKO from Choice Specs Keldeo's Secret Sword as well as making it incredibly difficult for physical attackers to break, letting it better soak up U-turn from Scizor, Lokix, and Zarude as well as powerful hits from wallbreakers like Ogerpon-C or Excadrill so that it can more easily set up Nasty Plot. Tera Steel improves its matchup against Ogerpon-C while also giving it a Toxic immunity to help against Toxapex and Mandibuzz, a Flying resistance so it can set up Nasty Plot in front of Tornadus-T, and a Fairy resistance useful for dodging an OHKO from Choice Band Azumarill's Play Rough in case of emergency. Tera Fairy lets it set up more easily on Latios and opposing Hydrapple without gaining weaknesses to Quaquaval and Weavile. However, Terastallizing Hydrapple removes its beneficial resistances to Ground and Electric, making it tougher to handle Volt Switch users such as Sandy Shocks and Rotom-W. Hydrapple acts as a solid wallbreaker for balance and bulky offensive playstyles, using its defensive profile to switch into foes that are offensively threatening or tough to break and then becoming a threat of its own. Slowking is a nice partner for it, forming a double Regenerator core that helps work around some problems for Hydrapple such as Tornadus-T and Tinkaton while acting a secondary Water resist in the event Hydrapple needs to Tera. Slowking also slow pivots to Hydrapple with Chilly Reception after soaking up a hit, allowing Hydrapple to either be a bigger threat due to having more HP or get its HP back from Regenerator more easiliy. Additionally, Slowking can use Thunder Wave against foes like Tinkaton and Mandibuzz to make them slower than Hydrapple, allowing it to more easily set up Nasty Plot. Cobalion is also a good teammate, defensively answering Scizor and Lokix, which can pose problems with their strong U-turn should they switch in on Hydrapple when it’s chipped. Hydrapple appreciates teammates that can help wear down Tinkaton into Earth Power range such as Lokix and Tornadus-T. It also appreciates Pokemon that can help pressure or defensively answer Flying-types such as Tyranitar or Rhyperior. Hydrapple appreciates Stealth Rock setters like the previously mentioned Cobalion and Rhyperior to get targets into range of its boosted attacks more easily. Sand teams appreciate Hydrapple's defensive profile in tandem with Regenerator, it can use an Eject Button to safely bring in Excadrill and act as check to opposing Excadrill and Keldeo, which can be scary for sand teams otherwise. Choice Specs Hydrapple is a dangerous wallbreaker that provides a lot of defensive utility through its typing to answer threats like Excadrill, Sandy Shocks, and Ogerpon. Leaf Storm and Draco Meteor are powerful and spammable STAB moves despite the Special Attack drop drawback. Earth Power provides coverage against Steel-types like Tinkaton and Heatran. Hydrapple lacks coverage outside of Earth Power, so Fickle Beam is usually preferred to have a secondary Dragon-type STAB move that doesn't have the ramification of lowering its Special Attack. Similarly, Giga Drain is another option to provide a secondary Grass-type STAB move that doesn't force Hydrapple to switch out and provides it with more longevity. Regenerator helps Hydrapple answer Excadrill and the Ogerpon formes and provides ample opportunities for Hydrapple to get into a position to wallbreak by keeping it healthy across a match. The EV spread allows Hydrapple to outspeed Azumarill and Ursaluna while maximizing its damage output. Tera Steel should primarily be used for its defensive value to flip the matchup against threats like Latios, Weavile, and Scizor. Tera Fairy allows Hydrapple to combat Latios and opposing Hydrapple. However, Hydrapple should only Terastallize when necessary, as giving up its great defensive typing greatly hinders its matchup against Pokemon like Rotom-W and Excadrill. Hydrapple fits best on offensive teams that can help it get in safely and take pressure off it being the sole answer to the likes of Excadrill and Ogerpon. Pivots such as Tornadus-T and Cobalion are fantastic partners for these reasons; the former forms a Regenerator core, while the latter can punish Pokemon like Scizor and Lokix with Thunder Wave, crippling them for Hydrapple to outspeed. Steel-types like Tinkaton and Metagross prevent Hydrapple from easily locking into its STAB moves, so Pokemon like Excadrill, Slowking, and Sandy Shocks can help check and apply pressure on them. Excadrill notably provides Rapid Spin support to prevent Hydrapple being worn down by entry hazards and can act as a check to Latios, allowing Hydrapple to preserve the option to Terastallize. Sandy Shocks can provide Spikes support to wear down Pokemon like specially defensive Tyranitar and Toxapex into OHKO range while also checking Tornadus-T. Assault Vest Tornadus-T is a fairly consistent pivot into Hydrapple, so it is essential to have means to overwhelm it. Tyranitar, Tinkaton, and Rhyperior can provide Stealth Rock support to restrict Tornadus-T's ability to pivot into Hydrapple while being great defensive checks to Tornadus-T. Tinkaton can also provide Knock Off support to help remove key items like Tornadus-T's Assault Vest. Other Knock Off users like Scizor and Lokix can also achieve this while also getting Hydrapple in against Pokemon they struggle to get through like Toxapex and Cobalion.
Xurkitree (SM competitive strategy): Xurkitree can act as a wallbreaker with Tail Glow, with decent coverage and a monstrous Special Attack Stat. Modest is the preferred nature for better rolls against Ferrothorn and Tangrowth. However, Xurkitree is still very easy to switch around and finds little to no setup opportunities. This set is still far preferred to the Z-Hypnosis one, as such a set is rarely sweeping even with Sticky Web support; for instance, Choice Scarf Landorus-T is a very common set that ignores Sticky Web and will revenge kill +1 Xurkitree. Furthermore, it's overreliant on Hypnosis actually hitting to get an opportunity to set up.
Xurkitree (SS competitive strategy): Of RU's three best Electric-types, Xurkitree, Raikou, and Toxtricity, Xurkitree is commonly considered the most restrictive and consistently dangerous for one simple reason: Grass-type coverage. Its Heavy-Duty Boots set singlehandedly makes Gastrodon, a strong Raikou answer, insufficient for covering the metagame's Electric-types, and other Ground-types like Steelix and Flygon shaky at best. With Ground-types so hesitant to face Xurkitree, it's free to use Volt Switch on switch-ins like Grass-types and special walls, which are rife with weaknesses for teammates to exploit. It's at its strongest against bulkier cores, which often use slower, exploitable Pokemon like Togekiss and Water-types and which struggle to pressure it with passive damage thanks to its Heavy-Duty Boots. While its Speed and bulk aren't great against offensive teams, it can usually find at least one opportunity to threaten them as well, either by forcing a switch or taking a hit. Should its team call for it, it can use Choice Scarf for greater use against offense and potentially cleaning up with Beast Boost at the expense of threatening defensive cores. What generally holds Xurkitree back is its aforementioned bulk and Speed; it can't switch into many direct attacks, and it often has very little breathing room against offense, areas where Raikou beats it out. Its Choice Scarf set suffers from prediction reliance against Ground-types and failing to outspeed other Choice Scarf users like Heracross and Flygon, limiting its ability to revenge kill and clean up. If you're looking for raw attacking power, you might prefer Toxtricity, whose Boomburst is easier to spam and much stronger than any of Xurkitree's individual attacks. Heavy-Duty Boots Xurkitree uses its entry hazard immunity and great coverage to give bulky cores a hard time. Thunderbolt and Volt Switch are staple moves for an Electric-type pivot. A Grass-type move threatens Ground-types; Grass Knot also does the most damage to Steelix, Raikou, and other Xurkitree, while Energy Ball properly hurts the lightweight Diancie and always OHKOes Gastrodon. Dazzling Gleam covers Flygon and is Xurkitree's strongest option against certain Grass-types like Dhelmise and Celebi. Pivot Xurkitree is pretty good at its job by default, so it usually gets put on a proactive team later in the building process to support others and pressure Togekiss. Steel-, Flying-, and Fire-types such as Metagross, Noivern, and Salazzle like having Xurkitree use Volt Switch as Grass-types like Roserade and Celebi switch in, and Fighting- and Ground-types like Heracross and Flygon can take advantage of special walls such as Porygon2 and Registeel. Xurkitree is pretty slow and unwieldy against offense, so it should have at least a couple of fast teammates, some conventional examples including Noivern, Starmie, and Choice Scarf Flygon. Choice Scarf Xurkitree's increased Speed makes it more useful against offense and able to leverage Beast Boost late-game. Thunderbolt and Volt Switch are must-haves for most Electric-types, Energy Ball consistently covers Ground-types, and Dazzling Gleam handles Dragon-types while boasting decent neutral coverage for cleaning up. Choice Scarf Xurkitree has a lot of opportunity cost compared to Heavy-Duty Boots Xurkitree, so it's only well merited when its team needs an Electric-type and a revenge killer in one. Given its focus on revenge killing and cleaning up, its teammates should include a wallbreaker or two like Flame Orb Heracross and Choice Band Metagross, which punish special walls and Grass-types. Water- and Grass-types like Milotic, Gastrodon, and Celebi can handle Ground-types when Xurkitree loses momentum to them. Roserade offensively checks them and sets Spikes, but it isn't a good Earthquake switch-in. Choice Scarf Xurkitree is still slower than other Choice Scarf users, so a priority user such as Golisopod or Bullet Punch Metagross will often be necessary on offensive teams using it. Endure + Salac Berry has merit on Sticky Web teams, giving Xurkitree the simultaneous benefits of heightened Speed and attack freedom while blocking First Impression and outpacing Choice Scarf users not named Flygon. If you build around Indeedee-M, its Psychic Surge lets Xurkitree run Nature Power to OHKO Roserade, Vileplume, and Nidoqueen.
Drampa (SM competitive strategy): Drampa's monstrous base 135 Special Attack, access to high-Base Power STAB moves, solid offensive typing, and excellent Special movepool cement its role as one of the most devastating wallbreakers in the PU metagame, with almost no safe switch-ins. Thanks to its typing and access to Sap Sipper, Drampa functions as a solid pivot into Grass-type moves from Pokemon such as Victreebel and Tangela, and it can use its somewhat decent bulk to switch into passive Pokemon like Regirock, Ferroseed, and Qwilfish without taking much damage. Despite Drampa's exceptional offensive prowess, it is plagued with being one of the slowest Pokemon in the tier, and its typing gives it notable weaknesses to Ice-, Fairy-, and the common Fighting-type Pokemon. This, more often than not, leaves Drampa vulnerable to Pokemon such as Hitmonchan, Jynx, and Silvally-Fairy picking it off once they've been sent in. Draco Meteor is Drampa's most powerful move, capable of achieving OHKOs on bulky Pokemon such as Musharna and Regirock after Stealth Rock. Hyper Voice offers a secondary STAB move that allows Drampa to hit Fairy-types hard, with the potential of OHKOing Silvally-Fairy after Stealth Rock. It's also the move with the least drawback, as long as there are no Ghost-type Pokemon on the field. Fire Blast is Drampa's best option for hitting Steel-types like Ferroseed, Metang and Alolan Sandslash, but Flamethrower can be used for better accuracy while still maintaining coverage against these Pokemon and other bulky Steel-types. Focus Blast allows Drampa to ensure a 2HKO against Type: Null and Munchlax, as well as a very strong chance of OHKOing Audino after Stealth Rock. Energy Ball provides Drampa with a strong neutral coverage move versus teams with both Jellicent and a Fairy-type, easing the need to predict correctly. It also 2HKOs Carbink, an otherwise safe switch-in. The EV spread gives Drampa enough Speed to outspeed uninvested base 50 Speed Pokemon such as Regirock, Sableye, and Audino. The remainder HP EVs let Drampa take hits better, allowing it to always survive Life Orb-boosted Focus Blast from special Floatzel at full HP. Sap Sipper allows Drampa to more easily pivot into Grass-type moves, protecting it from utility options like Sleep Powder and Leech Seed from the likes of Tangela and Ferroseed. Drampa should look for opportunities to come in early- and mid-game to punch holes against the opposing team, as it paves the way for teammates to clean up later in the battle. Against defensive teams, Drampa is very capable of pressuring the likes of Grass-type Pokemon like Tangela and other passive Pokemon such as Lanturn, Regirock, and Sableye, as they usually can’t do much in return. Against more offensively oriented teams, it's best to try to use Drampa as a pivot against Pokemon that can’t touch it much like non-Drain Punch Eelektross and Jellicent and use that opportunity to nab a KO against the opponent's team. Unless a Pokemon is immune to Drampa's STAB moves, you're generally safe to fire them off against these types of teams, as even resisted hits will deal a significant amount of damage. While Drampa can be sent out on weaker neutral attacks and resisted hits, avoid sending it out against strong neutral attacks or super effective coverage, as that makes it much easier to wear down. After using Draco Meteor, Drampa still has enough power to take out Pokemon like Carracosta that try to take advantage of the Special Attack drops, but it should be switched out against bulkier Pokemon that can set up, like Torterra and Throh. Part of making the most out of Drampa involves providing as many opportunities for it to grab a free switch as possible. Momentum support from the likes of Eelektross, Lanturn, Alolan Persian, Silvally-Fairy, and Primeape is appreciated, as many either provide a slow VoltTurn or tend to lure in bulky Pokemon for Drampa to take advantage of. Lanturn invites in lots of Grass-types, while Alolan Persian, Silvally-Fairy, and Primeape tend to lure physically defensive Pokemon such as Qwilfish and Gurdurr. Stealth Rock support is crucial in securing certain OHKOs on Pokemon like Musharna and Audino, and as such Stealth Rock users like Torterra and Mudsdale are beneficial, with Mudsdale in particular checking Fighting-types for Drampa. Lastly, late-game sweepers and cleaners such as Alolan Persian, Z-Lovely Kiss Jynx, Omastar, Lycanroc, and Choice Scarf Primeape all benefit from the massive holes that Drampa punches into teams, easing their win conditions. Calm Mind makes Drampa a powerful threat to bulky teams late-game and helps it against Pokemon that would normally beat it like Ludicolo. Roost lets Drampa stay healthy throughout the match, letting it switch into threatening Pokemon like Eelektross reliably, as well as allowing it to set up Calm Mind multiple times throughout the game. Flamethrower is used to hit bulky Steel-types like Alolan Sandslash and Ferroseed as well as Ice- and Grass-types like Abomasnow and Cryogonal. Hyper Voice is the stronger STAB attack and is an option over Flamethrower, for its good neutral coverage; however, this leaves Drampa walled by Steel-types. Drampa needs 116 Speed EVs to outspeed uninvested base 50 Speed Pokemon such as Regirock and Eelektross. 140 HP EVs allow Drampa to take strong attacks like Oricorio-E's unboosted Supersonic Skystrike and Simisear's unboosted Focus Blast. Berserk makes Drampa more threatening upon it taking a strong attack rather than having to use Calm Mind and synergizes well with Roost, but it means Drampa loses an important immunity. Drampa should aim to set up Calm Mind mid- to late-game once faster Pokemon like Aurorus and Stoutland that can revenge kill it have been removed. It should also be noted that Pokemon like Cryogonal and Calm Mind Clefairy need to be severely weakened before Drampa can set up. Drampa can also come in against passive Pokemon like Ferroseed and force switches against Pokemon like Lanturn, which are great opportunities for it to set up Calm Mind. After setting up, Drampa is absurdly strong, so use its immense power to blow holes into the opposing team. Make sure not to boost more than necessary because the more Drampa boosts, the more likely it is to be struck by a critical hit. Pivoting Drampa in and out on attackers it checks like Jellicent, Haunter, and Eelektross while dealing damage to checks and counters as they come in with Dragon Pulse is usually ideal; however, be wary that these Pokemon sometimes carry super effective coverage attacks like Ice Beam, Dazzling Gleam, and Drain Punch. Don't set up Calm Mind if you need Drampa healthy to take on these aforementioned threats. If Drampa intends to pivot into these Pokemon and gets worn down in the process, don't be afraid to use Roost. Drampa can also pivot into Grass-types such as Ludicolo and Victreebel thanks to Sap Sipper and the Water-type resistance, but it should be wary of Ice Beam and Sludge Bomb. Being poisoned is extremely crippling for Drampa, leaving it unable to sweep effectively, so be wary of Toxic or Toxic Spikes. Drampa should also avoid switching into Pokemon that it checks if entry hazards are still on the field, as it might not have the necessary bulk to pivot onto the field later. Drampa fits well on balance and bulky offensive teams that appreciate a setup sweeper that can punish and exploit bulky foes like Regirock and Ferroseed, as well as teams looking for checks to Pokemon like Eelektross. Entry hazard setters such as Mudsdale and Qwilfish serve as checks to Fighting-type Pokemon like Primeape and Gurdurr and help wear down Drampa's checks over time with entry hazards. Qwilfish can also cripple faster Pokemon like Lycanroc with Thunder Wave and absorb Toxic Spikes, while Mudsdale can handle powerful wallbreakers such as Aggron and Stoutland that pressure Drampa. While they can't handle Fighting-types, other Stealth Rock users like Metang and Regirock can offer valuable resistances, with Metang taking strong Ice-type attacks from the like of Aurorus for Drampa, while Regirock provides a more reliable check to Normal-types like Kangaskhan. Oricorio-E makes for a good teammate, being able to threaten or cripple most of Drampa's checks like Gurdurr and Cryogonal with Hurricane and Toxic. It also provides a switch-in to Hitmonchan. In return, Oricorio-E appreciates Drampa's ability to break down Pokemon like Regirock, which can make it sweep more easily. Pokemon that can remove entry hazards such as Skuntank and Alolan Sandslash are good teammates; Skuntank can also Pursuit trap bulky Pokemon like Cryogonal, while Alolan Sandslash can handle Pokemon like Clefairy. Lastly, pivots such as Lanturn and Eelektross are ideal teammates for Drampa because they bring it onto the field safely, allowing it to set up more freely, and chip away at Pokemon that give Drampa trouble like Hitmonchan, Clefairy, and Cryogonal. Lanturn can also remove status with Heal Bell for Drampa if it gets crippled by Toxic. Life Orb or Dragonium Z can allow Drampa to repeatedly take advantage of Berserk and switch moves, but it prefers to be able to nuke right off the bat and the immunity Sap Sipper provides is still preferred. Assault Vest can help Drampa check weather teams effectively thanks to its typing, but the lack of a boosting item limits its wallbreaking potential and this set is hampered by a lack of recovery.
Drampa (SS competitive strategy): Drampa's rainbow of a movepool, unique typing, and useful abilities make it a phenomenal anti-meta Pokemon. Boasting a nuclear Draco Meteor and strong coverage moves, Drampa can prove quite difficult to switch into for walls like Copperajah and Dhelmise. Drampa can also use its utility moves in Calm Mind and Roost to set up on special attackers, even beating traditional checks like Sylveon, Diancie, and Stakataka. However, Drampa's poor Speed often leaves it on the back foot against many metagame staples, especially given a type disadvantage, such as Sylveon, Toxicroak, and Tyrantrum. It also falls victim to smart pivoting; opponents can bring in a faster check on a resisted attack, such as Talonflame on Flamethrower or Diancie on Hyper Voice. This can make mispredicting or setting up at the wrong time quite costly. Hyper Voice is Drampa's best STAB attack for sweeping; with Flamethrower to hit Steel-types or Surf to hit Rock-types, it can have near-perfect coverage. It can use Fire Blast or Hydro Pump as a stronger alternative, or it can opt for Focus Blast to cover both Steel- and Rock-types. However, the lower PP and accuracy can make these moves not worth it, especially since the listed moves get the job done anyway. With the given Speed and HP EVs, Drampa can reliably use Calm Mind on incoming defensive Sylveon and keep boosting to beat them one-on-one, avoiding a 2HKO from Hyper Voice at +2 and getting Berserk boosts every so often as well. The Speed also prevents maximum Speed Copperajah from revenge killing with Superpower. Sap Sipper coupled with Roost makes Drampa a sturdy check to common Grass-types such as Vileplume and Decidueye but makes beating Sylveon harder. Because of Drampa's ability to effectively weaken or beat supposed checks like defensive Sylveon and Steel-types, Pokemon that may struggle to break through those foes such as Rotom-C and Heliolisk make for great partners, especially since they compensate for Drampa's relatively poor Speed. Reliable checks to Fighting-types like Toxicroak and Scrafty help Drampa a lot, making Weezing and Talonflame very suitable teammates as well. Steel-types can help manage opposing Fairy-, Dragon-, and Ice-types for Drampa. Lastly, Poison-types such as Vileplume and the aforementioned Weezing help Drampa, as they take on both Fairy- and Fighting-types. Choice Specs Drampa makes the most of its amazing coverage and incredibly high Special Attack, threatening OHKOs or 2HKOs on a vast majority of the metagame, given it locks into the right move. Fire Blast and Surf are essentially interchangeable with Flamethrower and Hydro Pump, which provide obvious tradeoffs and benefits. Focus Blast compresses coverage and hits the likes of Copperajah, Stakataka, and Snorlax. Sap Sipper allows Drampa another method of entry to wreak havoc, something many powerful wallbreakers so desperately want, pivoting in on common Grass-types such as Rotom-C while completely walling Decidueye's STAB moves and preventing Vileplume from healing with Strength Sap. Berserk can be used to further boost Drampa's Special Attack, although it becomes somewhat redundant given how powerful Drampa already is. Common pivots such as Silvally-Ground and Rotom-C provide relatively safe points of entry for Drampa to wreak havoc. Drampa's positive matchup against the Grass-types that commonly respond to those pivots makes this pairing even better. Steel-types such as Stakataka and Escavalier naturally pair well with Drampa, as they take on Fairy- and Dragon-types such as Sylveon and Alolan Exeggutor, both of which can outspeed and threaten an OHKO on Drampa. Drampa can meet both sets in the middle through a Life Orb set with three attacks and Roost, although it may find itself lacking in either damage output or longevity. Beyond this, despite the myriad of moves mentioned that Drampa can feasibly run, not even half are listed; boasting coverage options like Energy Ball, Hurricane, Shadow Ball, and Thunderbolt, each with varying degrees of actual viability, Drampa has many specific moves that may be the perfect piece in a puzzle for any given team. Drampa can make use of its support moves such as Defog and Glare along with Roost and a great, albeit double-edged, defensive typing, although generally there are better Pokemon to fulfill these niches.
Braviary (XY competitive strategy): Braviary has well-rounded stats that give it a few good traits like a decent Speed tier, a massive Attack stat, and the ability to create 101 HP Substitutes, which are important for its main set. Coupled with its high Attack, it also has strong neutral coverage provided by its STAB moves alongside some additional tools such as Superpower and Roost. It is one of the best stallbreakers, since very few Pokemon on defensive archetypes can break through its bulk or are faster than it. Defiant gives Braviary the ability to pressure Defoggers, a trait not many Pokemon have, making it great for teams that employ Spikes stackers. Unfortunately, offensive sets are worn down easily because of Brave Bird recoil and Stealth Rock. Braviary also has overlapping weaknesses with other hazard removers, putting some strain on teambuilding. Defensively, Braviary doesn't have a good set of resistances, so it can't be sent out easily without good prediction. It's also weak to common revenge killers such as Jolteon, Aerodactyl, and Sneasel. Finally, Pokemon it otherwise sets up on can run moves to bypass it, like Toxic Diancie and Thunderbolt Registeel. Substitute lets Braviary block status from Pokemon such as Registeel and Blastoise. Bulk Up gives Braviary a boost to its Defense and Attack, letting it endure more hits. Roost provides instant recovery so Braviary can continue to set up Substitutes. Brave Bird is a powerful STAB move that, unlike Return, no Pokemon is immune to. Maximum HP EVs let Braviary set up 101 HP Substitutes, which cannot be broken by Seismic Toss. The Speed EVs let it outpace uninvested Golbat so that if it has enough Bulk Up boosts, it can KO Golbat before it lands a Toxic or Taunt. The rest of the EVs go into Special Defense so it can take hits from defensive Pokemon such as Jellicent and Mega Audino better. Leftovers gives it passive recovery to make up for the lost HP when creating a Substitute. Defiant lets it punish Intimidate Pokemon like Granbull and Qwilfish, which might try to weaken Braviary's attacks a little bit, and gives it a boost from Defog. 92 Speed EVs could be run instead to outspeed Pokemon like Hoopa, Xatu, and Exploud. Braviary should only be setting up once all of its checks and counters are weakened enough to the point that it can win. This prevents Braviary from coming in later and being more pressured to Roost. It's also important to keep Stealth Rock off your side of the field so Braviary can come in at full HP. If your opponent has Flygon or any other Defogger, applying entry hazards to pressure them before Braviary sets up is a good idea, since it forces your opponent into a lose-lose situation. Almost always try to avoid status conditions while you can, as they hinder Braviary's ability to consistently be at a good amount of HP and keep a Substitute up at the same time. Entry hazard removers like Flygon, Blastoise, and Hitmonlee are good options to prevent Braviary from being worn down too much. Flygon is capable of coming in on Electric-types and threatening all of them bar Eelektross with Earthquake. Blastoise can provide a decent Ice-type switch-in and a Rock-type check and can even give Braviary more setup opportunities by getting some Scald burns. Hitmonlee can also support Braviary through checking Registeel, Ice-types, and Rock-types. Lanturn synergizes really well with Braviary, since it is a good counter to Magneton, one of Braviary's biggest counters, and can provide Braviary with Heal Bell and Volt Switch support. Braviary can check Grass-types like Venusaur and be a decent Ground-type switch-in in return. Hazard setters such as Registeel and Rhyperior love Braviary's ability to pressure Defoggers, since they are forced to either leave them up or give Braviary a Defiant boost. Toxic Spikes setters also appreciate Braviary pressuring these foes and fending off two off the most common Poison-types in Venusaur and Qwilfish; since it often takes a long time to set up, Toxic Spikes helps to rack up extra damage. Pokemon that resist Ice like Alomomola, Hariyama, and Bronzong make for good partners to check one of Braviary's weaknesses. Mega Camerupt and Rhyperior can check another one of its weaknesses, Electric. Brave Bird is a very strong STAB move that helps to punch holes and KO Grass- and Fighting-types. Return is a secondary STAB move that has good neutral coverage against the metagame and doesn't cause recoil damage. Superpower nails the Pokemon that can switch into Braviary's STAB moves like Registeel and Magneton. U-turn can snatch some momentum for your team and apply pressure to Malamar. Roost can be used when holding Sharp Beak; it helps Braviary last longer on the battlefield and can sometimes weaken super effective hits by removing Braviary's Flying typing. Maximum Speed investment lets Braviary outpace Pokemon like Hidden Power Fire Venusaur and non-Choice Scarf Emboar. Maximum Attack investment with an Adamant nature gives Braviary as much power as possible to break through teams. Alternatively, a Jolly nature can be used to help outspeed Absol, Sawk, and neutral-natured Gallade and Medicham. Choice Band gives a huge power boost to all of Braviary's attacks at the cost of not being able to switch moves. Alternatively, Sharp Beak only boosts Braviary's most important move, Brave Bird, but gives it the opportunity to run Roost if you wish to. Defiant allows Braviary to gain a +2 Attack boost if any of its stats are lowered by the foe, making it a great tool when combined with entry hazard setters. Try to bring Braviary on resisted or weak attacks like Venusaur's Giga Drain and Aromatisse's Moonblast. For the most part, Braviary is going to want to use Brave Bird or U-turn as much as possible throughout the match to weaken the opponent's team and only use Return or Superpower on Electric- or Steel-types, respectively. Try to keep entry hazards off the field whenever possible, as Braviary is already taking enough recoil damage from Brave Bird. Inversely, try to always keep your hazards up if the opponent has a Defogger so you can force 50/50s and potentially get a boost off of Defog. Braviary appreciates Speed control, whether through Thunder Wave or Tailwind, so Pokemon like Uxie and Tailwind Flygon make for good partners. Braviary fits best on VoltTurn playstyles, so having other Pokemon that use U-turn or Volt Switch like Jolteon, Scyther, and Rotom make for great partners. Braviary helps to check Venusaur, so Pokemon that can benefit from that like Virizion and Sawk make for good partners. In return, they can break down Registeel, Diancie, and Rhyperior, making Braviary less reliant on prediction to get past them. Entry hazard removers like Flygon and Kabutops make for good partners that help to keep Braviary healthy. Hazard setters like Smeargle, Garbodor, and Diancie appreciate Braviary's Defiant letting them potentially keep their hazards up for longer, giving Braviary a way to power through foes faster. Choice Scarf can be used to allow Braviary to revenge kill the foe, but there are many Pokemon that wall its STAB moves, forcing it to use U-turn often. Life Orb can be used to increase the power of all of Braviary's moves, but Brave Bird's recoil stacks up with the Life Orb damage, making it hard to use effectively. Sleep Talk can be used on offensive sets to check Sleep Powder Venusaur better. The EVs on the Bulk Up set are subject to change depending on the user; running more Speed can be useful for outpacing faster Pokemon like Exploud and Hoopa, and Special Defense investment could be used to better tank Registeel's Thunderbolt, giving it a 50% chance to break Braviary's Substitute instead of a 100% chance to. Tailwind could be used on Braviary's offensive set to help itself and slower partners break through offensive teams better.
Braviary (SM competitive strategy): Braviary can effectively perform the role of a wallbreaker or late-game sweeper thanks to its access to utility moves like Bulk Up and Roost, above average bulk, and great Attack. In addition, its great coverage between just Brave Bird and Superpower leaves it walled by very few Pokemon, meaning it can be very difficult to answer defensively. Braviary can also provide great support for its team, since its ability Defiant dissuades and punishes the use of Defog. Additionally, the sheer special bulk of the Substitute + Bulk Up set lets Braviary check Grass-types like Sceptile and Whimsicott as well as other special attackers like Guzzlord and Accelgor. Unfortunately, Bulk Up variants of Braviary are easy to check defensively with Pokemon such as Rhydon and Steelix and rely on moves that cut into their longevity, leaving them more easily revenge killed. Braviary also deals with a weakness to Stealth Rock, limiting the number of turns it can safely switch in before having to recover with Roost and thus providing the foe with a free turn. Faster offensive Pokemon like Heliolisk and Mega Glalie also give Braviary problems, as they can easily take advantage of Braviary's lesser Speed and OHKO it. Brave Bird is a strong Flying-type STAB attack with the ability to blow past even the sturdiest of physical walls with the help of Bulk Up and Flyinium Z. Superpower rounds out Braviary's coverage well, hitting most Flying-resistant Pokemon such as Steelix and Rhydon for at least neutral damage. Alongside Fightinium Z, it gives Braviary a more reliable way of dealing with these Pokemon itself. Bulk Up enables Braviary to become either a fearsome wallbreaker or sweeper while also making it difficult for traditional revenge killers, such as Choice Scarf Passimian, to defeat. Roost provides Braviary with a source of recovery and lets it potentially take advantage of weaker, resisted moves like Torterra's Wood Hammer to gain opportunities to switch in as well as stay healthy. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs with a Jolly nature improve Braviary's offensive presence and let it outspeed Pokemon like Decidueye and Samurott. Defiant lets Braviary deter the use of Defog and Parting Shot, granting it an Attack boost whenever it switches into either move. Fightinium Z gives Braviary a better matchup against Rock- and Steel-types such as Rhydon, Klinklang, and Steelix, although All-Out Pummeling has much worse neutral coverage than Supersonic Skystrike. Alternatively, Flyinium Z allows Braviary access to an extremely strong Supersonic Skystrike that lets it break walls such as Vaporeon and Druddigon and prevents it from taking recoil damage. However, it leaves Braviary with no reliable way to manage Rock- and Steel-types. Braviary is best used early- and mid-game to wallbreak for its teammates with its boosted attacks. Braviary gets good opportunities to set up against Pokemon like Torterra, Palossand, and non-Toxic Mega Audino that are incapable of threatening it. Additionally, Braviary can use Roost to repeatedly take advantage of and switch into these Pokemon. However, Braviary can instead opt to just fire off unboosted attacks at switch-ins to weaken them for later, as Brave Bird and Superpower hit incredibly hard even unboosted and doing so lets Braviary more effectively wallbreak mid- to late-game with its Bulk Up-boosted attacks. Braviary should save its Z-Move for Pokemon such as Steelix, Vaporeon, and Weezing that can severely punish Braviary for not OHKOing them. If no opportunities to safely use Bulk Up present themselves, Braviary can try to get an Attack boost by switching into Defog from the likes of Decidueye, Golbat, and Silvally-Steel. However, be careful of switching into Rotom, as it outspeeds Braviary and can punish it with Will-O-Wisp or super effective damage. When using Fightinium Z, Braviary can break Steel- and Rock-types such as Steelix and Rhydon much more reliably for its teammates. Braviary appreciates entry hazard support from the likes of Steelix and Garbodor, as it assists Braviary in breaking defensive switch-ins such as Rotom and Rhydon. Braviary can even act as a form of entry hazard control, since Defiant deters the use of Defog. Late-game cleaners like Comfey, Choice Scarf Passimian, and Klinklang appreciate Braviary's ability to wallbreak early- and mid-game. Pivot support from the likes of Heliolisk, Rotom, and Silvally-Steel goes well alongside Braviary, since it helps Braviary switch in safely. Heliolisk and Rotom in particular work well with Braviary, since they commonly draw in special walls like Druddigon and Slowking that Braviary can easily defeat. Pokemon such as Steelix and Torterra are excellent partners for Braviary, since they can easily switch into faster Electric-types for it and also can dispatch of Rock-types. Similarly, Fire-types like Incineroar and Magmortar help to deal with faster Ice-types such as Sneasel and Mega Glalie. Since Rotom is a massive problem for Braviary, checks to it like Incineroar, Heliolisk, and Sneasel make for excellent teammates. Substitute prevents Braviary from being badly poisoned by Pokemon such as Blastoise, Xatu, and Mega Audino and lets Braviary take advantage of passive Pokemon like Seismitoad and Silvally-Steel that cannot break Substitute easily. Bulk Up lets Braviary function as a late-game sweeper and makes it difficult for physical revenge killers such as Sneasel, Choice Scarf Passimian, and Choice Scarf Braviary to successfully defeat it. Brave Bird is Braviary's best STAB option due to its great neutral coverage, which prevents Braviary from ever being completely walled. Roost provides Braviary with a source of recovery and lets Braviary make use of its solid special bulk to switch into certain hits like Sceptile's Leaf Storm and Whimsicott's Energy Ball. Roost also lets Braviary PP stall attacks such as Steelix's Heavy Slam and Garbodor's Gunk Shot. 96 Speed EVs with a Jolly nature are crucial so that Braviary outspeeds Jolly Incineroar and most Xatu, while 252 HP EVs prevent Braviary's Substitute from being broken by Miltank's Seismic Toss. The remaining EVs are dumped into Special Defense and make it more difficult for weak Scald users like Seismitoad to break Braviary's Substitute. Defiant lets Braviary assist in keeping entry hazards up by dissuading opposing Defoggers from using Defog, since it gives Braviary an Attack boost. It also prevents Silvally-Steel from safely using Parting Shot. Leftovers provides Braviary with passive recovery, meaning it doesn't have to use Roost as often and regains some of the health lost from using Substitute. Braviary is best preserved for late-game, as it will struggle to defeat its checks before they are adequately worn down or removed, and it must be healthy to reliably set up. However, Braviary can be pivoted into certain special attacks like Sceptile's Leaf Storm, Alolan Exeggutor's Leaf Storm, and Whimsicott's Moonblast thanks to its good bulk and Roost. Braviary should look to set up Substitute against passive Pokemon incapable of breaking it, such as Palossand, Mega Audino, and Miltank. From there, Braviary can look to use Bulk Up. Although Substitute shields Braviary from status conditions from the likes of Steelix, Vaporeon, and Rotom, it is imperative that Braviary be careful against Golbat. Golbat can badly poison Braviary with Toxic no matter what thanks to its ability Infiltrator. It is also important to keep Braviary at high HP against Choice Specs Heliolisk, as Hyper Voice bypasses Substitute and does a large number. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Rhydon, Steelix, and Garbodor is mandatory in helping wear down Braviary's switch-ins. In particular, Garbodor is an excellent teammate, since Spikes help wear down Rock- and Steel-types for Braviary, while Toxic Spikes synergizes well with Braviary's combination of Substitute and Roost. In return, Braviary assists in keeping hazards up thanks to Defiant. Since Braviary struggles to break Pokemon like Steelix and Rhydon, Pokemon such as Sceptile, Magmortar, and Accelgor help to wear them down. In addition, Accelgor can provide Spikes support for Braviary. Hazard control from the likes of Rotom, Cryogonal, and Silvally-Steel prevents Braviary from being worn down by Stealth Rock damage. Furthermore, these Pokemon can check Heliolisk effectively for Braviary. Pokemon such as Blastoise and Vaporeon are excellent to pair alongside Braviary, as they can switch into physical attackers well. Vaporeon can also provide Heal Bell support for Braviary, while it checks Grass-types for the aforementioned. Braviary can utilize Choice Scarf to become an effective revenge killer and pivot, although such a set lacks the wallbreaking power of the Z-Move set and the defensive presence of the Substitute + Bulk Up set.
Braviary (SS competitive strategy): Braviary is a decent setup sweeper and stallbreaker thanks to its great coverage, solid offensive stats, and access to recovery. Its typing allows it to check Grass-types like Decidueye, Dhelmise, and Vileplume, and excellent coverage from Close Combat lets it beat Steel-types like Galarian Stunfisk, Copperajah, and Stakataka, which usually have no issue checking Flying-types. Braviary's also good at dissuading Vileplume's Strength Sap and Mantine's or Silvally-Steel's Defog thanks to Defiant. Unfortunately, Braviary's really easy to revenge kill with common Electric- and Rock-types such as Rotom-C, Heliolisk, Aerodactyl, and Diancie. Braviary also faces competition from other setup sweepers like Toxicroak and Silvally-Ground, which are faster and possess better overall defensive utility. Close Combat allows Braviary to hit Steel-types like Stakataka, Copperajah, and Galarian Stunfisk. Leftovers can be used over Heavy-Duty Boots for a bit more recovery, but Braviary gets more vulnerable to Stealth Rock. Ground-types like Galarian Stunfisk, Mudsdale, and Silvally-Ground appreciate Braviary checking Grass-types like Tsareena, Dhelmise, and Virizion. In return, they check Electric- and Rock-types like Rotom-C, Aerodactyl, and Tyrantrum. Steel-types like Copperajah and Escavalier can check powerful wallbreakers like Inteleon, Vanilluxe, and Starmie that have powerful Ice-type moves for Braviary. Braviary appreciates pivot support, like Volt Switch from Rotom-C and U-turn from Silvally-Ground, to bring it in safely for setup. If Braviary opts for Leftovers, entry hazard removers like Dhelmise, Tsareena, and Xatu can be fantastic partners to get rid of Stealth Rock; they can also be useful to check physical walls like Gastrodon, Quagsire, and Mudsdale. Status hurts Braviary's sweeping, so clerics like Vaporeon, Diancie, and Sylveon can be useful. Substitute over Close Combat helps Braviary avoid status, but it gets completely walled by Steel-types. Braviary could run a Choice Band to hit incredibly hard, but this leaves it more vulnerable to Stealth Rock. Choice Scarf makes it a decent revenge killer, but it's just completely outclassed by Rotom-C, Passimian, and Heliolisk; they all bring more options to a team and don't have Rock or Electric weaknesses. Braviary can serve as a reliable Defog user due to its decent natural bulk and coverage for common Stealth Rock users like Galarian Stunfisk and Stakataka.
Braviary (SV competitive strategy): Braviary serves as good entry hazard removal for Normal teams due to its good bulk and Fighting neutrality, which let it comfortably use Defog in front of foes like Sneasler and Meowscarada. Brave Bird is Braviary's strongest STAB move, threatening to OHKO foes like the Ogerpon formes and Sinistcha. U-turn helps keep momentum going and damage common switch-ins like Ting-Lu and Iron Boulder. Close Combat can be used instead of U-turn to check Steel-, Rock-, and Normal-types like Excadrill, Hisuian Goodra, Tyranitar, and Blissey. Doing so, however, means that Braviary would lack the momentum it gets from U-turn, which is crucial for Normal teams. The EVs above allow Braviary to outspeed Adamant Azumarill while also comfortably taking attacks from Garchomp and Ogerpon-H. Blissey is a great teammate, as it can tank special hits from Choice Specs users like Greninja, Flutter Mane, and Kyurem while also being able to set up Stealth Rock and spread paralysis with Thunder Wave. Braviary returns the favor by dealing with Choice Scarf users like Galarian Zapdos and Great Tusk for Blissey. Porygon2 is a nice defensive wall when paired with Braviary, being able to wall Ice-types like Weavile and Mamoswine and stop setup users like Scizor and Ceruledge with Foul Play. Choice Scarf Ditto is an excellent revenge killer, using its ability to flip the script on sweepers like Ogerpon-W, Dragonite, and Keldeo late-game. Choice Specs Hisuian Zoroark provides a Fighting immunity for the team while being able to check Ghost- and Steel-types like Gholdengo and Corviknight. Braviary can remove hazards for Hisuian Zoroark while taking out Bisharp and Choice Scarf Hisuian Samurott. Choice Scarf Indeedee is another option, which provides more support in the Fighting and Poison matchups due to its part-Psychic typing and ability to set up Psychic Terrain for the team. Indeedee can also blast away threats, such as Urshifu-R, mixed offense Iron Valiant, and Clodsire,in Terrain with Expanding Force. Calm Mind Terapagos, with its colorful moveset, can be a good teammate to pressure defensive Pokemon like Corviknight and Quagsire for Braviary.
Beartic (SS competitive strategy): Beartic's excellent Attack and good coverage options are masked by its horrific defensive utility, low Speed, and extreme vulnerability to residual damage. As an Ice-type and wallbreaker, Piloswine outclasses it thanks to its greater bulk, additional Ground typing, and access to Stealth Rock, while wallbreakers like Sawk and Lycanroc-N outperform it thanks to their greater Speed and better typings. Beartic can attempt to wallbreak through its wide coverage and impressive Attack, though it is let down by its abysmal defensive profile and low Speed. Piloswine's greater bulk, additional Ground typing, and access to Stealth Rock make it a better Ice-type and wallbreaker despite its lower Attack. Other wallbreakers like Sawk and Lycanroc-N outclass it thanks to their greater Speed and better typings while having comparable power.
Beartic (SV competitive strategy): Under snow, Beartic is a chillingly threatening sweeper, boasting wide coverage and frightening offensive power while outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame. The Defense boost in snow allows it to tank physical attacks like Passimian's Close Combat and Lycanroc's Stone Edge. Beartic relies on Abomasnow to provide snow, and it forms a deadly offensive core with it, as Abomasnow's Aurora Veil makes Beartic even more difficult to take down. Beartic, however, is hindered by its low Speed and awful defensive typing; even under snow, it can be outsped by faster Choice Scarf users like Hisuian Sneasel and Typhlosion. Even with the Defense boost and Aurora Veil support, Beartic sports minimal defensive utility, owing to its vulnerability to all residual damage and lack of resistances if not running Heavy-Duty Boots, and it also stacks weaknesses with Abomasnow. Outside of snow, Beartic is extremely slow and easy to revenge kill without Terastallization, requiring significant support to perform well as a setup sweeper. The combination of snow and Slush Rush enables Beartic to become one of the scariest setup sweepers under this archetype, boasting high offensive stats and outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame. Icicle Spear's higher power is preferred over Icicle Crash's potential flinch chance if running Loaded Dice, and its multiple hits work well against foes using Substitute like Minior, Whimsicott, and Rotom-C. Close Combat threatens Ice-resistant targets like Snorlax, Orthworm, and Glastrier while also hitting Regirock hard. Earthquake threatens Lanturn, Magneton, and non-Choice Scarf Typhlosion, while Substitute capitalizes on weak walls like Snorlax and Dipplin. While an Adamant nature is ideal to maximize its power, Jolly can be used to outspeed Choice Scarf Passimian and Choice Scarf Mesprit under snow. If Beartic is not running Icicle Spear, Life Orb or Heavy-Duty Boots can be chosen to either strengthen all of its moves' power or protect it from entry hazard damage, respectively. Tera Fighting boosts the power of Close Combat and lets Beartic resist priority moves like Sucker Punch and Accelerock, while Tera Ground boosts the power of Earthquake and provides it a Stealth Rock resistance and Electric immunity while still resisting Accelerock; changing into either of these Tera types, however, relinquishes the Defense boost under snow. Due to Beartic being heavily reliant on snow for wallbreaking, Abomasnow is a mandatory partner to enable Slush Rush and the Defense boost. Pivots like Clawitzer and Passimian can help threaten and force out walls like Regirock and Orthworm, while wallbreakers like Clawitzer and Charizard can be similarly effective. Hattrem is a notable partner, as it supplies paralysis and Healing Wish support, enabling Beartic to clean through teams easier, while providing Magic Bounce support for Beartic's non-Heavy-Duty Boots sets. Spinners like Sandslash and Hitmontop are also valuable partners, providing entry hazard removal support without needing to remove Aurora Veil. Water-types like Clawitzer and Lanturn can not only force out Fire-types but also provide pivoting support. Hazard setters like Regirock and Sandslash not only can help rack up residual damage over the course of a game but also provide additional utility with Thunder Wave and Knock Off, respectively. Other setup sweepers like Minior can overwhelm teams and shared checks like Regirock with Beartic.
Pyukumuku (SM competitive strategy): Pyukumuku is the sole viable user of Unaware in ZU, which makes it a key Pokemon for stall teams. Unaware paired with impressive bulk allows Pyukumuku to confront a lot of Pokemon in the tier, such as Kecleon, Crustle, and Rapidash. However, Pyukumuku's shallow movepool doesn't pack any offensive move, making it unable to wall any Pokemon that packs Taunt or Substitute such as Floatzel or Vigoroth. This also means that Pyukumuku relies on Toxic and PP stalling to wear down opposing Pokemon. Its passive nature allows Pokemon such as Probopass and Komala to freely come on the field and set or remove entry hazards. Pyukumuku also has a hard time against a lot of wallbreakers such as Electivire and Pinsir because the former three have a super effective STAB move, whereas Mold Breaker Pinsir ignores Unaware. Spite allows Pyukumuku to reliably PP stall Pokemon that it can't wear down with Toxic such as Komala, Muk, and Duosion. It's also Pyukumuku's sole move able to bypass Substitute. Toxic allows Pyukumuku to wear down Pokemon using less PP than with Spite. However, unlike Spite, Pokemon immune to Toxic such as Bronzor and Komala are common. Rest is a secondary recovery move that allows Pyukumuku to more reliably PP stall Pokemon that can't 3HKO it such as Floatzel and Bulk Up Komala. It also allows Pyukumuku to remove potential status, which allows it to beat Pokemon that rely on Toxic to break walls such as Regigigas. Block allows Pyukumuku to remove a Pokemon from the game, since it will lose its PP before Pyukumuku because of Spite, Rest, and the inability to switch to save PP. This also makes Toxic stalling more reliable, since the foe will lose more and more health at the end of each turn. Unaware allows Pyukumuku to beat setup sweepers such as Bulk Up Komala and Swords Dance Combusken. Poisonium Z allows Pyukumuku to Toxic an opposing foe through Taunt. It also prevents Pyukumuku from suddenly becoming Choice-locked by Pokemon such as Switcheroo Floatzel. If Pyukumuku doesn't run Toxic, it can instead hold a Ghostium Z to still benefit from the immunity to Trick and Switcheroo and reduce Knock Off damage. It also provides Pyukumuku with one-time full recovery. Leftovers can be run over a Z-Crystal since it gives Pyukumuku passive recovery, which allows it to avoid the 2HKO from Choice Band Komala after Stealth Rock and the 3HKO from Duosion. Switch in Pyukumuku against Pokemon that can set up or can't 2HKO it, such as Crustle and Combusken. It's important from Team Preview to identify which opposing Pokemon is the most dangerous. Such Pokemon that must be trapped by Block will be the target of Pyukumuku's Z-Move in order to ease pressure off its teammates. Use Recover to keep Pyukumuku at full health to check threats such as Choice Band Komala. Switch out if the opposing Pokemon can 2HKO Pyukumuku or commonly packs Taunt or Substitute, such as Vigoroth or Regigigas. If the opposing Pokemon can 2HKO Pyukumuku, use Recover. Otherwise, it should use Block, Spite, or Toxic first and then Recover. If you know the foe can cripple Pyukumuku with Taunt, use Z-Toxic to bypass Taunt. The Defense boost is also nice, since it allows Pyukumuku to avoid the 2HKO from Choice Band Toucannon. However, since it can only be used once, it should not be prematurely wasted. Pyukumuku can use Rest to cure status such as poison; however, you shouldn't do this if Pyukumuku needs to be awake to take on an opposing Pokemon. Rest also improves Pyukumuku's effectiveness at PP stalling, and if the opposing Pokemon can't 3HKO Pyukumuku, using Rest will allow Pyukumuku to use less PP than the foe. Pyukumuku's passive nature limits it to only fitting on stall teams. If used in another archetype, Pyukumuku drains to much momentum and invites some threats to freely come on the field. Lickilicky is Pyukumuku's partner of choice because of its ability to take on special attackers and immunity to Taunt. It can also remove Pyukumuku's status thanks to Heal Bell. Pokemon such as Altaria, Avalugg, Bronzor, and Gourgeist-XL that can take on offensive Grass-types are potent teammates. Pokemon immune to Electric that can beat Electric-types and disturb VoltTurn cores such as Silvally-Ground are great partners. Entry hazard control is a requirement on any stall team; for example, with Stealth Rock up, Pyukumuku is unable to switch into Choice Band Komala. Good hazard removers on stall include Altaria, Avalugg, Silvally-Ground, and Silvally-Dark. Natu is also a great teammate for its ability to bounce Taunt back. If holding a Z-Crystal, Pyukumuku becomes a sufficient Knock Off absorber, which is appreciated by Pokemon that hold Eviolite such as Bronzor. Soak combined with Toxic can be run over Spite in order to remove the Toxic immunity from Steel- and Poison-types while also removing the foe's STAB boost. However, most Pokemon immune to Toxic aren't affected by the tactic; Probopass can just Volt Switch out, while Muk and Bronzor can use Rest. Furthermore, Komala's and Silvally-Poison's Toxic immunity can't be removed by Soak, and not running Spite leaves Pyukumuku unable to deal with Bulk Up Komala and Duosion. Specially defensive sets are also a possibility, though Pyukumuku's teammates such as Lickilicky, Muk, and Bronzor can cover special attackers. However, Pyukumuku can distinguish from other specially defensive walls because it learns Recover, whereas other specially defensive walls rely on shakier recovery moves in Wish and Rest. It also has a better matchup against specially offensive Water- and Fire-types such as Floatzel and Combusken. Counter allows Pyukumuku to have an offensive move that lets it act even if Taunted, but Pyukumuku lacks the room to pack this move. It also doesn't improve its matchup against special attackers such as Combusken and Beheeyem. Pyukumuku can run a support set with both dual screens and Memento, but this set is outclassed by Meowstic, which can more reliably the set up dual screens with Prankster and is less susceptible to Taunt.
Pyukumuku (SS competitive strategy): Pyukumuku is the sole viable user of Unaware in ZU, making it a cornerstone on stall teams. Unaware allows Pyukumuku to take on setup sweepers such as Swords Dance Rhydon, non-Stored Power Alcremie, and Silvally formes. Block prevents the foe from switching and allows Pyukumuku to remove them with Toxic or PP stall with Spite. Rest removes status and helps to PP stall foes that cannot 3HKO Pyukumuku, such as Choice Scarf Sawk. Leftovers is normally preferred when entry hazard removal is prevalent on the team, while Heavy-Duty Boots may be used to help against entry hazard stacking matchups. Pyukumuku's passive nature limits it to fitting exclusively on stall teams. Specially defensive clerics such as Clefairy and Articuno form a good core with Pyukumuku. Physically defensive Pokemon such as Altaria, Tangela, and Golbat, which can take on offensive Grass-types, make for good partners with Pyukumuku. Pokemon that can beat Electric-types such as Rotom-S and block Volt Switch such as Stunfisk are also great partners. If not running Heavy-Duty Boots, or if the item gets removed, Pyukumuku can take big damage from entry hazards and have a harder time checking Silvally-Dark and Rapidash. To avoid this, entry hazard removers such as Altaria and Articuno are essential on stall teams. Pyukumuku can sometimes forgo Block to run Rest with both Spite and Toxic. Soak lets Pyukumuku inflict Toxic poison on Steel- and Poison-types Klinklang and Silvally-Poison and helps it better take on Pokemon such as Kangaskhan, Klinklang, and other Silvally formes by making them lose their STAB bonus.
Swanna (BW competitive strategy): At first glance, Swanna looks mediocre at best, with no base stats over 100. However, believe it or not, she's definitely a threat to watch out for. In rain, Swanna becomes a powerhouse with Hurricane, a move that sets her apart from other rain sweepers. Swanna has amazing offensive stats and a great Speed of 98, which allows her to outspeed many threats in NU, such as Gardevoir and Braviary. She also has access to Roost as well as Rest, which pairs well with her Hydration ability. Stone Edge. Articuno, Regice, and Lapras can take any of Swanna's
Swanna (XY competitive strategy): In a tier littered with entry hazard users, Swanna cements itself as the best offensive Defogger. A strong Water / Flying STAB combination allows it to hit the majority of the tier for good damage, and a nice Speed tier allows Swanna to outspeed Pokemon such as Mr. Mime and Leafeon. While Swanna has only an average Special Attack stat, its powerful STAB Hurricane and Life Orb can help to remedy this. Unfortunately, Swanna has poor bulk, meaning it can find itself getting KOed early in a match. It's also weak to Stealth Rock, which it's meant to remove, meaning it can get worn down easily if it needs to Defog a lot during the match. Hurricane is Swanna's most powerful Flying-type STAB move, dealing with Pokemon such as Roselia, Gourgeist-XL, and Leafeon. Scald provides a Water-type STAB attack that complements Hurricane well, hitting Pokemon such as Golem, Probopass, and Pawniard, which resist Hurricane. It also has a nice 30% chance to burn the foe, punishing switch-ins. Defog helps distinguish Swanna from other offensive Pokemon, allowing it to clear entry hazards for its teammates. Roost keeps Swanna healthy, especially considering Swanna will usually be taking Life Orb recoil and switching into Stealth Rock. If Swanna is being used on a rain team, Rest can be used with Hydration to fully heal it. It is, however, reliant on rain to be effective. Maximum Special Attack and Speed investment with a Timid nature give Swanna as much power and Speed as possible. Life Orb is used to power up Swanna's moves and makes it much harder to switch into. Hydration helps Swanna deal with status when playing against or being used on a rain team. Swanna should try to clear entry hazards for its teammates whenever possible, as Defog is one of the main reasons to use it. When Swanna is not clearing entry hazards, its main job will be to hit as hard as possible with its offensive moves. Try to use Roost often, or Swanna might find itself getting worn down too quickly. Lastly, if Swanna is out against a special wall and there are no entry hazards to remove, switching out or fishing for a Scald burn are usually the best options. As Swanna's role is to clear entry hazards for its team, Pokemon that dislike entry hazards appreciate Swanna's support; these include Rotom-F, Rapidash, and Ninetales. Swanna also is a powerful offensive Pokemon, making entry hazard support from the likes of Golem, Probopass, and Metang helpful. Do note, however, that Defog will also clear your own entry hazards, meaning that suicide leads such as Smeargle are not recommended. Swanna hates Electric-types, making Pokemon such as Golem and Stunfisk good partners to deal with them. Finally, if being used on a rain team, Rain Dance setters such as Volbeat can make Hurricane's accuracy 100% and power up Scald. Rain also allows Swanna to use Rest in combination with Hydration to fully heal itself. Air Slash is a nice move for when Swanna doesn't want to risk Hurricane's 70% accuracy, though it's quite weak. Surf can be used over Scald for its higher Base Power, but it doesn't achieve any notable KOs that Scald doesn't. Rain Dance is a decent option on rain teams to make Hurricane's accuracy 100% while also powering up Scald. Tailwind is an option to boost your teammates' Speed, but it's hard to find room for it on the set. Substitute can protect Swanna from status and other attacks, while Roost can heal up any damage taken from Substitute. However, this would mean that Swanna would have to give up Defog, which is the main reason to run it.
Swanna (SM competitive strategy): Swanna has cemented itself as one of the best offensive Flying-types in the tier due to its great offensive typing. With access to Defog, Swanna becomes undoubtedly the best offensive Defogger ZU has to offer. Because of its typing, Swanna can viably run a variety of different Z-Moves, which makes it hard to check. In addition, Swanna's above-average Speed tier lets it outspeed and threaten the likes of Silvally-Fighting, Combusken, and non-Choice Scarf Pinsir and Leafeon. Unfortunately, Swanna suffers from poor defensive stats, so it must rely on prediction when switching into common entry hazard setters and offensive Pokemon alike, such as Crustle, Pinsir, Kecleon, and Golem. Because of its average offensive stats, Swanna is forced to rely on Hurricane or Z-Moves in order to wallbreak properly. This restricts Swanna's wallbreaking capabilities. Hurricane and Scald are Swanna’s most effective moves, allowing it to take advantage of its fantastic STAB combination. Roost gives Swanna the ability to restore its health after Life Orb recoil and Stealth Rock damage and allows it to repeatedly check Pokemon such as Floatzel, Silvally-Fighting, and Combusken. Flyinium Z allows Swanna to bypass Hurricane’s low accuracy. Life Orb is used to boost Swanna's damage output; however, the recoil damage is often detrimental when coupled with Stealth Rock damage. Big Pecks allows Swanna to avoid Defense drops, which help Swanna better check Floatzel that use Liquidation. Swanna’s main goal is to act as a wallbreaker, taking advantage of physically defensive walls such as Golem and Gourgeist-XL as well as slower offensive Pokemon such as Leafeon, Silvally-Fighting, and Oricorio-F. Swanna can switch into Pokemon it is able to threaten such as Combusken, Gourgeist-XL, and Silvally-Fighting. Swanna should take the opportunity to remove entry hazards when it forces switches. It is important to utilize Roost in order to maintain Swanna's longevity when checking Pokemon like Floatzel and Combusken. Swanna's relatively low Special Attack stat means it struggles to break specially defensive Pokemon such as Lickilicky, Kecleon, and Bronzor without a super effective move, so it's best to switch into physical wallbreakers to better handle them. Swanna's Z-Move is best used to net KOs when it doesn't want to risk a Hurricane miss. Furthermore, Supersonic Skystrike can also be used to remove weakened defensive Pokemon such as Silvally-Water and Pyukumuku. Swanna pairs well with Pokemon that appreciate entry hazards removed like Combusken, Rapidash, and Pinsir. Physical wallbreakers such as Machoke and Komala can threaten specially defensive walls like Lickilicky and Kecleon that are able to wall Swanna. These Pokemon also appreciate Swanna's ability to check Golem, Gourgeist-XL, and Silvally-Fighting. Electric-types such as Electivire and Machoke appreciate Swanna's ability to threaten Ground-types like Golem, Silvally-Ground, and Marowak. Swanna hates opposing Electric-types, so Pokemon immune to Electric-type attacks like Golem, Electivire, and Raichu all pair well it. Swanna appreciates Pokemon with entry hazard support such as Golem, Mareanie, and Probopass. In return, Golem and Probopass appreciate Swanna's ability to check Fighting-types. Because Swanna is weak to Stealth Rock and cannot switch into most hazard setters comfortably, it often appreciates a second hazard remover such as Silvally-Fighting, Silvally-Dragon, or Komala. Scald may be used over Surf so Swanna is able to threaten physical attackers with a potential burn. Z-Rain Dance allows Swanna to gain a +1 Speed boost as well as activate its ability, Hydration. Swanna has the option to run Ice Beam over Roost exclusively for Altaria. Waterium Z is necessary to boost Swanna's Speed in cleaning situations; however, it can also be used to boost Swanna’s selected Water-type STAB move by turning it into Hydro Vortex if the speed boost is not needed. However, Hydro Vortex from Scald is much weaker than from Surf. Swanna's main role is to act as a late-game sweeper, so it is best to preserve it until it has a clear opening or its checks and counters are weakened. The choice between using Z-Rain Dance or Hydro Vortex should be based on whether Swanna needs a Speed boost in order to sweep. Under rain, Hydro Vortex can be used to catch opposing weakened specially defensive walls off guard such as Bronzor, Lickilicky, Assault Vest Komala, and Kecleon. Ideally, Roost should be used on predicted switches in order to maintain Swanna's HP, giving it a greater chance of completing its sweep. With the +1 Speed boost, Swanna outpaces and KOes common Choice Scarf users such as Chatot, Leafeon, Pinsir, a weakened Electivire, and weakened Silvally formes. Swanna should be wary of priority users such as Kecleon and Pawniard, as they ignore Swanna's Speed boost and can take advantage of its low defenses. Swanna greatly appreciates entry hazard support in order to weaken some of its checks and counters, so Pokemon that can set hazards such as Golem and Mareanie all make for great partners. Because Swanna is weak to Stealth Rock, Pokemon that can remove hazards such as Komala and Silvally formes are all excellent options. Silvally-Fighting in particular makes for a fantastic option because it isn't weak to Stealth Rock and can pressure Golem and Probopass. Swanna often finds itself pressured by Electric-type Pokemon, so Pokemon that are immune to Electric-type attacks such as Raichu, Electivire, and Golem all make for good partners. Swanna can synergize well with other physical late-game sweepers like Muk, Pinsir, and Combusken by eliminating each other's defensive checks. Physical wallbreakers such as Combusken and Choice Band Komala are all able to pressure Pokemon that wall Swanna such as Bronzor, Vigoroth, and Kecleon. Z-Mirror Move gives Swanna a +2 boost in Attack and allows it to fire off the foe's last move as a Z-Move. STAB Brave Bird sets Swanna apart from Floatzel, allowing it to hit Leafeon and Gourgeist-XL. Aqua Jet offers Swanna priority, allowing it to clean if the opposing team still has a weakened Choice Scarf user. Alternatively, Roost enables Swanna to regain its health so it can maintain a threatening position. In addition, Roost allows Swanna to become a better soft check to Floatzel and Silvally-Fighting. Swanna should be primarily used as a late-game cleaner, so potential threats and walls should be removed such as Choice Scarf Electivire, Pawniard, Pyukumuku, and Silvally-Water. Before using Z-Mirror Move, take into account the last move that was used and whether it would KO the opposing Pokemon. Because of the recoil damage, Brave Bird should only be used to net KOs that Liquidation can't. Due to its lackluster bulk, Swanna lacking Roost should refrain from switching into opposing attacks. Swanna appreciates Pokemon that can set entry hazards and chip its checks and counters, so Pokemon like Golem and Mareanie make for great partners. Because Swanna is weak to Stealth Rock, it appreciates Pokemon that can remove them such as Silvally formes and Komala. Silvally-Fighting is one of the best options due to its resistance against Stealth Rock and ability to check Pokemon such as Golem, Probopass, and Pawniard. Electric-type Pokemon threaten Swanna, so Pokemon that are immune to Electric-type attacks such as Electivire, Golem, and Raichu make for good partners. Physical wallbreakers such as Choice Band Komala can weaken Pokemon like Bronzor and Altaria so Swanna has an easier time cleaning late-game. Other late-game sweepers such as Mr. Mime, Muk, and Combusken pair well with Swanna due to their combined offensive presence. A Choice Scarf set may be run to outpace other Choice Scarf users like Electivire, Pinsir, and Leafeon, but it's often outclassed by other Choice Scarf users in ZU. Unfortunately, Choice Scarf Swanna loses to Electivire unless the Electivire is significantly weakened. Swanna can utilize a defensive set consisting of 248 HP EVs and 232 Speed EVs with Leftovers to better check Monferno and Combusken.
Turtonator (SM competitive strategy): Turtonator finds its place in the PU metagame as a threatening Shell Smash sweeper. Offensively, its Fire / Dragon typing boasts unresisted coverage against everything in the tier. It is free to run a Z-Move such as Devastating Drake that allows it to beat blanket checks like Hitmonchan after a Shell Smash. Good physical bulk lets it set up against weaker physical attackers such as Shiftry. Turtonator's main flaw is its low Speed, meaning it can easily be outsped and revenge killed after Stealth Rock damage by common Choice Scarf users such as Primeape and Alolan Sandslash even after a Shell Smash. Its typing can often hinder it as well, as it is weak to Stealth Rock and lacks notable resistances outside of Grass, Fire, and Electric. Turtonator is generally only seen on niche hyper offense teams, because other Fire- or Dragon-types such as Combusken and Drampa are able to inflict immediate damage or have better defensive utility. Turtonator's primary appeal is Shell Smash, which allows it to sweep weakened teams after it has set it up and the opposing team's revenge killers are dealt with or break down specially defensive walls. Draco Meteor is used in conjunction with Dragonium Z to get the most power out of the Z-Move and to secure KOs on Pokemon that are out of range of Dragon Pulse. Dragon Pulse is Turtonator's most spammable move, since there is no accuracy drawback, and unlike Draco Meteor, it doesn't drop Turtonator's Special Attack by two stages. Dragonium Z turns Draco Meteor into a 195-Base Power Dragon-type move that can break past a lot of specially defensive Pokemon after a Shell Smash, such as Lanturn and Assault Vest Hitmonchan. White Herb can be used so that Turtonator is harder to revenge kill after a Shell Smash, as it nullifies the first Defense drops. Finding opportunities to set up Shell Smash against Fire-, Steel-, and Electric-type attacks, such as Choice-locked Aggron's Heavy Slam or Eelektross’s Volt Switch, is vital, as Turtonator needs the boosts to effectively sweep. Another good way to set up is to find Turtonator in a one-on-one situation against weaker physical attackers such as Skuntank, as Turtonator's good physical bulk can allow it to use Shell Smash without taking too much damage. Devastating Drake should be used carefully, as opponents can pivot out into a Steel- or Fairy-type predicting the Z-Move, leaving another Pokemon out of range from Turtonator's other attacks. Turtonator acts more like a wallbreaker in most circumstances due to its great damage output but subpar Speed stat, even after a +2 boost. Devastating Drake should only be used to get necessary KOs, as Draco Meteor drops Turtonator's Special Attack by two stages. Make sure to not switch Turtonator in while Stealth Rock is up, as this can hinder Turtonator's ability to take hits and set up. Reflect and Light Screen from Pokemon such as Electrode give Turtonator increased bulk to let it set up Shell Smash much more easily. Memento from users like Alolan Dugtrio and Skuntank also gives Turtonator better opportunities to set up well, since Memento drops the foe's Attack and Special Attack stats by two stages. Qwilfish and Ferroseed can set up Spikes, putting the opponent's Pokemon in range of Dragon Pulse late-game. In return, Turtonator 4x resists Electric and Fire for Qwilfish and Ferroseed, respectively. Other Rock-resistant Pokemon such as Gurdurr and Torterra also make for good partners, as they can easily take on Pokemon such as Lycanroc, which can prevent Turtonator from sweeping by possibly revenge killing it with priority Accelerock. Entry hazard control from Pokemon like Skuntank, Hitmonchan, and Swanna is essential, since Turtonator is weak to Stealth Rock and needs to preserve its health to set up well. Skuntank is especially notable, as it can absorb Toxic Spikes, which limits the number of turns that Turtonator has on the field. Pokemon that can capitalize on Turtonator's ability to KO specially defensive Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Oricorio-G and Floatzel work well. Sticky Web support from Shuckle allows Turtonator to outspeed Choice Scarf users like Primeape and Jynx after Shell Smash, which would be able to revenge kill Turtonator and stop the sweep. Firium Z powers up Fire Blast into a 185-Base Power Inferno Overdrive, which can help against Fairy-types such as Clefairy. A set utilizing Grassium Z with Solar Beam can be used to help out against Pyukumuku, which can take a Devastating Drake and recover off the damage due to its Unaware ability ignoring Turtonator's stat boosts, but is generally not worth using over Dragonium Z, since it hits nothing else relevant. Substitute over Draco Meteor is an option, especially on teams with dual screens support, as it can get up a Substitute against more passive Pokemon or on a predicted status move. However, without Draco Meteor, Turtonator loses out on a lot of power. Earthquake deals a lot of damage to Lanturn and does a notable amount against Carbink, which otherwise completely walls Turtonator. It should only be used in conjunction with White Herb, as Lanturn is knocked out by a +2 Devastating Drake anyway.
Turtonator (SS competitive strategy): Turtonator carves a small niche as a Fire-type on hyper offensive teams over the more commonly seen Charizard thanks to a great boosting move in Shell Smash, which allows it to outspeed most of the unboosted metagame, making it difficult to revenge kill reliably. An excellent STAB combination along with high-powered STAB moves and valuable coverage in Flash Cannon makes it incredibly dangerous after a boost. However, Turtonator is held back by its low Speed, meaning it will most likely take heavy damage before safely setting up. It also has issues breaking through many top defensive Pokemon such as Gigalith, Wishiwashi, and Jellicent. Along with this, even after a Shell Smash it is still outsped by the commonly seen Ribombee as well as Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Mesprit, and it will either have a drop in its defensive stats after a boost or take heavy hazard damage upon switching in, depending on which item it's using. Flash Cannon hits Fairy-types such as Silvally-Fairy hard and deals good damage to Pokemon that resist Fire such as Archeops and Gigalith without the drawback of lowering Turtonator's Special Attack. White Herb reduces damage Turtonator takes after setting up, but Heavy-Duty Boots can be used to avoid hazard damage upon switching in. One of Turtonator's best offensive checks is Ribombee, so partners that can check it are useful partners to have, such as Togedemaru and Doublade. Doublade in particular is also a great partner, as it can safely switch into Pokemon that can revenge kill Turtonator, such as opposing Lycanroc. Offensive Grass-types such as Thwackey and Silvally-Grass naturally scare out Water-types that otherwise check Turtonator, making them useful partners as well, while Frosmoth's natural special bulk allows it to safely Quiver Dance against Ribombee, and it can also set up on bulky Water-types that check Turtonator, such as Quagsire.
Aromatisse (XY competitive strategy): Aromatisse functions as one of the best clerics in RU thanks to its very useful typing, good bulk, and bulky offensive utility thanks to Moonblast and RestTalk. With these qualities, Aromatisse can take on many common threats such as Hitmonlee, Druddigon, Virizion, and Scrafty well. It also has mild offensive presence with its base 99 Special Attack and access to STAB Moonblast to hit the things it checks fairly hard. Furthermore, Aromatisse is not vulnerable to Taunt and Encore thanks to its ability Aroma Veil, which grants it an immunity to said moves, making it harder to stop from setting up and healing off damage with Calm Mind and Rest, respectively. However, Aromatisse is relatively easy to pressure, as Rest is its only form of reliable recovery, leaving it to the mercy of Sleep Talk after it heals. Aromatisse is also vulnerable to many common Pokemon in the tier, such as Fletchinder, Escavalier, and Registeel. Aromatisse also has to deal with coverage moves, such as Gunk Shot from Druddigon and Trick / Switcheroo. Calm Mind slowly boosts Aromatisse's Special Defense and power. Moonblast hits hard with Calm Mind boosts in tow; the Special Attack drop can also prove very useful at times. Rest fully heals Aromatisse, and Sleep Talk allows Aromatisse to function while it is asleep. This set maximizes physical bulk in order to better take on Hitmonlee, Druddigon, Scrafty, and Virizion. 12 Spe is run in order for Aromatisse to outspeed uninvested Slowking. Leftovers is run to recover HP gradually, helping Aromatisse as it sets up Calm Mind. This particular set serves as a late-game setup sweeper for stall teams that can still function as an effective defensive threat. Compared to Mega Audino, Aromatisse has the ability to check Hitmonlee and also possesses an immunity to Taunt and Encore, which are key qualities for a defensive Pokemon. Aromatisse primarily aims to set up on Pokemon it can wall, as well as passive walls such as Alomomola. It can set up on several physical attackers such as Hitmonlee, Mega Banette, and, to a lesser extent, Druddigon. It can also set up on Alomomola with ease. Save Aromatisse for when its counters, such as Escavalier and Bronzong, are removed from the battle, as otherwise it won't be very efficient at sweeping. Trick Room is one of Aromatisse's most notable options. It makes for a great asset for Trick Room teams, as it possesses a Taunt immunity and a Dark resistance, which are key assets for such team archetypes. It also makes for a nice lure with Hidden Power Fire and Thunderbolt due to its base 99 Special Attack. Aromatisse has several miscellaneous offensive options such as Thunderbolt, Energy Ball, and Psychic, but none of these are particularly useful on Aromatisse. It also has Light Screen and Reflect to support its team, but Aromatisse would rarely actually find room to run such options. Beyond this, Aromatisse has a relatively barren movepool.
Aromatisse (SM competitive strategy): Due to its good offensive typing, access to Trick Room to mitigate its rather low Speed, and access to Nasty Plot to augment its already decent Special Attack, Aromatisse is capable of performing as an effective late-game sweeper that can pose a threat to offensive and defensive teams alike. Aromatisse's typing is solid defensively as well, allowing it to check Pokemon such as Assault Vest Hariyama, Sneasel, and Malamar. This, in combination with its good mixed bulk, gives it an easier time setting Trick Room. Decent coverage in Psychic also allows Aromatisse to deal with Poison-types that would otherwise put a damper on its attempts at sweeping. However, Aromatisse suffers from rather average overall stats, which often forces it to use both Trick Room and Nasty Plot in order to begin sweeping. While good defensively, its pure Fairy typing unfortunately burdens it with weaknesses to Poison- and Steel-type attacks, both of which are fairly common in NU. Aromatisse will often have to take a hit before setting Trick Room for itself, which can be problematic versus stronger attackers such as Mega Glalie, and its susceptibility to all forms of entry hazards making it easier to wear down only makes matters worse. Trick Room is a major part of what makes Aromatisse a good late-game sweeper, allowing it to take advantage of its low Speed by outspeeding almost all of the tier under it. Nasty Plot augments Aromatisse's Special Attack, giving it an easier time breaking and sweeping through teams. Moonblast is Aromatisse's strongest Fairy-type attack, hitting Dark-, Dragon-, and Fighting-types such as Sneasel, Altaria, and Hariyama for super effective damage. Psychic offers coverage to combat Poison-types such as Garbodor and Golbat that would otherwise give it difficulties. Hidden Power Fire is also an option, targeting both Steel-types such as Klinklang and Silvally-Steel. Hidden Power Ground is another alternative that can be used to target Fire-types such as Delphox and Magmortar on top of the aforementioned Steel-types, although most Fire-types are easier to wear down, and Houndoom and Incineroar are neutrally hit by Moonblast. The investment in both HP and Special Attack maximizes Aromatisse's bulk and offensive presence. A Quiet nature further augments Aromatisse's power while also helping it outspeed as much as it can under Trick Room. Aroma Veil is the preferred ability due to it preventing Aromatisse from being disrupted by Taunt and Encore from the likes of Mismagius and Whimsicott. Fairium Z turns Moonblast into Twinkle Tackle, which is fairly strong even unboosted and allows Aromatisse to bypass some of its checks at +2, such as Delphox and Klinklang. Since Aromatisse excels as a late-game sweeper, it should wait until Pokemon it cannot break through such as Silvally-Steel have been either weakened enough or removed entirely to begin its sweep. While Aromatisse's bulk is good, it shouldn't be recklessly switched in on attacks when it doesn't have to, as this cuts into its longevity. Furthermore, being weakened limits Aromatisse's ability to find setup opportunities. Aromatisse should mainly set up on Pokemon that are Choice locked into Dark- or Fighting-type attacks such as Sneasel and Braviary, as well as on Dragon-types such as Druddigon. After setting up Trick Room, Aromatisse should aim to use Nasty Plot in order to increase its damage output and become more threatening. However, against frailer, offensive teams, this may not always be necessary. Exercise caution when it comes to using Aromatisse's Z-Move. It should mainly be used to KO Fairy-resistant foes that can take a +2 Moonblast or to break through very specially bulky Pokemon such as Type: Null. Aromatisse appreciates wallbreakers that can place pressure on specially bulky Pokemon such as Assault Vest Slowking and Mega Audino, so Pokemon such as Mega Glalie, Sceptile, and Alolan Exeggutor make for good partners. Entry hazard support from the likes of Rhydon and Steelix is appreciated, since the chip damage wears down Aromatisse's switch-ins; the previously mentioned examples can also check Poison-types for Aromatisse, while it can deal with Fighting-types for them. Entry hazards can also lessen the need to use Twinkle Tackle against certain Pokemon, allowing Aromatisse to save it until it is more important. Pivots such as Probopass, Rotom, and Xatu are good teammates, since they can get Aromatisse in safely against the likes of Sneasel and ease setup. Rotom and Xatu can provide useful entry hazard removal, while Probopass can trap Steel-types. On more dedicated Trick Room teams, other Trick Room setters such as Mega Audino and Alolan Exeggutor are good partners, as they alleviate some of the pressure placed on Aromatisse to set up. Alolan Exeggutor can also wallbreak for Aromatisse and Mega Audino can provide useful Healing Wish support, all of which give Aromatisse an easier time sweeping. Slow wallbreakers such as Aggron, Hariyama, and Vikavolt appreciate Aromatisse offering them Trick Room support to improve their matchup against offensive teams. In return, they break many of the Pokemon that Aromatisse finds itself struggling with such as Silvally-Steel. Leftovers is a viable alternative to Fairium Z if the team Aromatisse is on already has a Z-Move user that gives Aromatisse a form of passive recovery, since passive damage is one of Aromatisse's greater annoyances. Life Orb can also be used over Fairium Z if the team Aromatisse is on already has a Z-Move user, although the recoil damage it has to take as a result of this is unappealing and wears it down faster. Aromatisse has access to other coverage moves such as Energy Ball and Thunderbolt, although a lot of what these other moves hit already doesn't appreciate switching in on a +2 Moonblast. A physically defensive set with Wish / Protect / Moonblast / Aromatherapy could be used to make Aromatisse into a cleric, but Aromatisse faces competition in this role from Mega Audino, which boasts greater bulk and Regenerator prior to Mega Evolution. A set of Calm Mind / Moonblast / Rest / Sleep Talk can turn Aromatisse into a bulky late-game sweeper for balanced and stall teams, although such as a set faces competition from Type: Null.
Aromatisse (SS competitive strategy): Aromatisse is one of the bulkier Fairy-types options in the tier, capable of checking powerful Fighting-types like Gallade. Aromatisse sets itself apart from its competition thanks to the Wish and Heal Bell support it can provide its teammates, as well as an immunity to Taunt and Encore. Unfortunately, Aromatisse's mono-Fairy typing, unimpressive Special Attack stat and lack of coverage leave it prone to giving strong wallbreakers like Magmortar and Aggron a free switch-in. Aromatisse is reliant on Wish to keep itself healthy, forcing it to use Protect very often, which can be a huge momentum drain. Aromatisse faces little direct competition but teams that do not need its Wish support may wish to invest in a Fighting-type check with more utility, such as Weezing, and faster-paced teams may opt for other Fairy-types like Silvally-Fairy or Whimsicott. Heal Bell provides Aromatisse and its teammates with cleric support. Toxic allows Aromatisse to cripple Pokemon like Gigalith and Charizard. Calm Mind is an option for the last slot to give Aromatisse a more offensive precense; however, many Fairy-resistant Pokemon such as Centiskorch and Aggron can overwhelm Aromatisse with sheer power. Aroma Veil is a useful ability that prevents Aromatisse from being shut down by Taunt and Encore. Heavy-Duty Boots is an alternative option over Leftovers to prevent Aromatisse from being worn down by entry hazards, though the passive recovery from Leftovers is generally preferred. Aromatisse fits best on bulky offense and balance builds that value Wish support and a sturdy Fighting-type check. Pokemon like Gallade and Magmortar can pressure Spikes users like Ferroseed and Garbodor, who otherwise heavily exploit Aromatisse's passivity. In return, Aromatisse can cleanse them of status and give them easier entry with Wish support. Weezing and Jellicent can help provide a secondary Fighting-type check and can check offensive breakers like Aggron and Silvally-Steel, respectively. Gigalith and Lanturn can help check strong Fire-types such as Magmortar and Charizard that Aromatisse invites in, both also greatly valuing the Wish support Aromatisse provides.
Cramorant (SS competitive strategy): Cramorant finds a niche in ZU as a Defogger, threatening common entry hazard setters such as Rhydon and Piloswine. Roost is necessary to improve Cramorant's longevity and lets it consistently switch into the likes of Accelgor and Poliwrath. Surf activates Gulp Missile, allowing Cramorant to punish attackers, and can potentially paralyze them if Gulp Missile is activated when it has no more than 50% HP. Hurricane complements Surf by targeting foes such as Qwilifish and Tangela. The given spread allows Cramorant to outspeed Modest Exeggutor and avoid the 2HKO from Nasty Plot boosted Ninetales, as well as checking physical attackers like Sawk and Gurdurr. Although Cramorant is an effective Defogger, its 4x weakness to Electric makes it susceptible to Rotom formes. Checks to them such as Rhydon and Piloswine are appreciated; Rhydon can also check Kangaskhan. Knock Off absorbers like Silvally formes and Alolan Persian can improve Cramorant's longevity and let it consistently clear entry hazards by keeping Heavy-Duty Boots intact; in return, the latter values it threatening opposing Ground-types. Cramorant's ability to inflict paralysis with Gulp Missile at low HP complements slow wallbreakers like Exeggutor and Skuntank and aids them against fast attackers like Gourgeist-S and Sawk. Powerful attackers such as Silk Scarf Kangaskhan, Silvally formes, and Sawk appreciate Cramorant's Defog letting them consistently switch into battle. Substitute synergizes well with Gulp Missile, helping Cramorant reach the range for its Gorging forme; however, it is generally less effective than Cramorant's other moves. An offensive spread of 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe can be utilized with Hurricane to better offensively pressure foes such as Tangela and Gurdurr.
Cramorant (SV competitive strategy): Despite its poor base stats, Cramorant shines as an entry hazard remover thanks to a unique ability that can provide constant pressure on an opposing team as well as spread status in Gulp Missile, pressuring common entry hazard setters like Mudsdale and Palossand, and a defensive typing that lets it check common foes like Arcanine, Hariyama, and Salazzle. Brave Bird synergizes well with Gulp Missile, taking advantage of its Defense drops and forcing out Pokemon like Florges and Milotic that would otherwise not mind staying in on Cramorant. Hurricane avoids the issue of Brave Bird dealing recoil damage and making contact while also hitting Amoonguss harder, but it is prone to missing due to its low accuracy and doesn't take advantage of Gulp Missile's Defense drops. The given EV spread allows Cramorant to avoid a 2HKO from Choice Band Paldean Tauros-F using Close Combat or Flare Blitz while outspeeding Adamant Golurk, while the rest is put into Special Defense to better check special threats like Tastugiri. Tera Steel is recommended to remove Cramorant's Rock and Electric weaknesses while giving it many relevant resistances to the STAB moves of Pokemon such as Florges and Alolan Ninetales and preventing it from being poisoned by foes like Skuntank and Amoonguss. Cramorant fits best on balance teams that appreciate its ability to remove entry hazards while being able to shore up its poor defenses with multiple defensive partners and support offensive Pokemon by spreading paralysis via Gulp Missile. Its biggest weakness is to Electric-types like Pawmot and Rotom-H, which struggle to come in but consistently force it out, so Grass- and Ground-types like Amoonguss and Rhydon,respectively, are heavily recommended to be able to deal with them. Other Ground-types such as Palossand and Mudsdale can also switch into Rock-type moves such as Stone Edge from Paldean Tauros-F and opposing Rhydon as well as scout the occasional Wild Charge from Arcanine, taking some pressure off of Cramorant. In return, Cramorant can switch into Water-types like Choice item Bruxish locked into Wave Crash and Floatzel, and both Palossand and Mudsdale can help handle Fighting-types such as Hisuian Decidueye and Emboar. Dark-types like Skuntank and Hisuian Qwilfish can also switch into Bruxish's Psychic Fangs with the added benefit of switching into Toxic for Cramorant.
Eiscue (SS competitive strategy): Eiscue is a weak and frail Pokemon whose only niche is using a predictable sweeping set that gets stopped by almost any special attacker and most physical attackers. It is entirely outclassed as a physical setup sweeper by Crustle and Silvally formes. Eiscue aims to use Substitute to facilitate safe setup and then use Belly Drum to activate its Salac Berry and setup to +6 Attack, making it faster than unboosted Pokemon under base 100 Speed with its Ice Face intact and letting it outpace nearly the entire tier if its Ice Face is broken. However, even at +6 Attack, it misses key OHKOs due to Icicle Spear's unreliable damage and is extremely easy to revenge kill with any faster special attacker or Choice Scarf Sawk, which ignore Ice Face. Use Crustle or Silvally formes as setup sweepers instead.
Cofagrigus (XY competitive strategy): Cofagrigus has a high amount of bulk that allows it to serve as an effective wall. Its Ghost typing allows it to spinblock the likes of Hitmontop and Blastoise, and it also bears a few disruptive moves such as Will-O-Wisp, Haze, and Toxic Spikes. Its unique ability, Mummy, is decently useful and allows it to neutralize the abilities of common threats such as Fletchinder, Mega Glalie, and Medicham that rely on them, severely reducing their threat level. However, Cofagrigus is extremely slow, which makes it very easy to revenge kill. Its Dark and Ghost weaknesses leave it vulnerable to numerous common Pokemon in the tier, as well as the ever-popular Knock Off. In addition, it lacks reliable recovery outside of Pain Split, which makes it easy to wear down with entry hazards, status, and repeated attacks. Its lack of a varied offensive movepool also leaves it highly vulnerable to common threats such as Meloetta, Mega Camerupt, Braviary, and Drapion. Additionally, it faces stiff competition from Spiritomb and Jellicent as a bulky Ghost-type. Will-O-Wisp inflicts burns on opposing Pokemon, allowing Cofagrigus to cripple several physical attackers such as Mega Glalie and make itself much harder to take down. Hex is a strong Ghost-type move that takes advantage of Cofagrigus's ability to spread status, hitting hard against anything that doesn't resist it. Shadow Ball, however, is a more consistent STAB move, albeit sometimes weaker. Pain Split serves as a shaky yet usable form of recovery if Cofagrigus is weakened, healing its own HP and damaging opposing threats, which works well with Cofagrigus's low base HP. Haze prevents Cofagrigus from becoming setup fodder, resetting the stat boosts of setup sweepers. Toxic Spikes allows Cofagrigus to spread poison to the opposing team, although with Venusaur being relatively common, it must be used carefully. Knock Off allows Cofagrigus to remove items and cripple or weaken certain Pokemon, such as Togetic and Gurdurr. Maximum investment in HP and Defense along with a Bold nature maximizes Cofagrigus's physical bulk to allow it to effectively take on common physical attackers in the tier, such as Mega Glalie, Medicham, Escavalier, and Rhyperior. Leftovers serves as a form of passive recovery for Cofagrigus and allows it to take hits slightly more effectively. Cofagrigus should be used to switch into something it can check, such as Accelgor, Hitmonlee, Medicham, or Mega Glalie, and attempt to wall it. From there, it should be used to spread burns or use Toxic Spikes as a means of spreading crippling status. If Cofagrigus carries Knock Off, it is advised to use it to cripple opposing Pokemon by removing their items. When Cofagrigus's HP reaches a low point from a powerful attack, Pain Split should be used to restore it. Haze should also be used when necessary to prevent opposing Pokemon from using Cofagrigus as setup bait. Cofagrigus has a very sparse movepool, which leaves its other capabilities extremely limited. It can run an offensive set with Trick Room and Nasty Plot, which allows it to use its bulk and low Speed to its advantage to become a sweeper that hits hard and fast. However, as it requires two turns to become a threat, such a set is difficult to use. Curse is an interesting option that can wear down an foe and force it out, but it cuts Cofagrigus's HP in half, leaving it highly vulnerable to being KOed afterwards. Destiny Bond is also a usable move that can take down a foe as it KOes Cofagrigus, but it is highly situational. Disable is also a unique move that can disable a powerful attack used on Cofagrigus. Either Energy Ball or Grass Knot can be used to deal heavy damage to certain Pokemon, such as Rhyperior and Seismitoad, though Cofagrigus lacks the room to use such moves. Imprison is also usable to disable moves that Cofagrigus shares with other Pokemon, such as Will-O-Wisp, though Cofagrigus lacks the moves to make Imprison useful. Memento is also usable to sacrifice Cofagrigus to provide a free setup opportunity for threats such as Fletchinder and Virizion. Magic Coat is a passable option to allow Cofagrigus to reflect entry hazards and status back to the foe.
Cofagrigus (SM competitive strategy): Cofagrigus's access to Nasty Plot and Trick Room makes it a potent sweeper in the UU metagame, particularly against offensively inclined teams, where it generally outspeeds every Pokemon while Trick Room is up. Its Ghost typing is good offensively, especially when paired with Ghostium Z, with STAB Shadow Ball only being resisted by Dark- and Normal-types like Hydreigon and Blissey. Cofagrigus also possesses great natural bulk, especially physically, granting it a solid number of setup opportunities and allowing it to act as a blanket check to certain physical threats such as Scizor and Mega Altaria. Ghost is rather mediocre defensively, though it does give Cofagrigus setup opportunities against Pokemon like Cobalion and Choice Scarf Infernape. Cofagrigus's ability Mummy helps it set up in the face of Pokemon such as Scizor and physical Mega Altaria that rely on their abilities to do meaningful damage. However, Cofagrigus is not particularly threatening without both Nasty Plot and Trick Room set up, often being either too weak to execute a sweep without Nasty Plot boosts or revenge killed by a faster Pokemon outside of Trick Room. It also struggles to break past any formidable special wall that is not hit at least neutrally by its Ghost STAB moves; examples include Blissey and Alolan Muk. While in theory Hidden Power Fighting offers fantastic coverage alongside Cofagrigus's STAB Shadow Ball, its low Base Power leads Cofagrigus to struggle against Ghost-resistant Pokemon such as Blissey and Mega Pidgeot, due to the former's great Special Defense and the latter's neutrality to Fighting-type moves. Shadow Ball is Cofagrigus's main STAB move, with few strong Pokemon resisting it in the UU tier. Never-Ending Nightmare deals huge damage after a Nasty Plot boost to even the bulkiest of targets, provided that they do not resist Ghost. Hidden Power Fighting deals super effective damage to Dark- and Normal-types like Krookodile and Bewear that resist or are immune to Shadow Ball. Nasty Plot raises Cofagrigus's Special Attack by two stages, letting it do huge amounts of damage to foes. For four turns, Trick Room often makes Cofagrigus the fastest Pokemon on the field, which is perfect for a late-game sweep after a Nasty Plot boost or two. Maximum investment in HP improves Cofagrigus's overall bulk as much as possible. 252 Special Attack EVs along with a Quiet nature let it hit as hard as possible in its attempt to sweep late-game. The Quiet nature also couples with its 0 Speed IVs in hopes of making Cofagrigus the fastest Pokemon under Trick Room at all times. Ghostium Z allows Cofagrigus to break past bulkier targets like Primarina, Amoonguss, and Togekiss that may get in the way of its sweep, as well as reducing the Base Power of opposing Knock Off. Mummy lets Cofagrigus check Scizor, Flame Orb Heracross, and Dragon Dance Mega Altaria more effectively, as they largely rely on their abilities to deal damage. It is preferable to bring Cofagrigus in to clean up late-game after opposing dedicated special walls and Dark-types have been weakened to the point that they can no longer stand in the way of a sweep. Set up Nasty Plot and Trick Room against Pokemon such as Infernape, Cobalion, and Mienshao that deal minimal amounts of damage to Cofagrigus. Always keep an eye out for other setup opportunities such as a Latias or Choice Scarf Hydreigon using Draco Meteor and dropping its Special Attack by two stages. It is ideal to keep Cofagrigus healthy if aiming to sweep with it late-game. Cofagrigus can be used to check Pokemon like Scizor and Mega Aerodactyl in a pinch, but this should really only be done if sweeping later on is out of the question. Cofagrigus fits best on bulky offense teams that appreciate its ability to clean late-game and act as a blanket check to physical attackers if need be. Fighting-types like Cobalion and Infernape are great partners, as they can threaten special walls like Blissey and Alolan Muk that halt any attempt at a Cofagrigus sweep while also checking Dark-types. Physical wallbreakers such as Terrakion and Crawdaunt can break through special walls to aid Cofagrigus in cleaning later on. Klefki can check Dark-types and set up Spikes to whittle down the opposing team; in return, Cofagrigus can block Rapid Spin attempts and pivot out. Blissey lures like Superpower Nidoking and Block Slowbro are much appreciated, as they can potentially eliminate one of Cofagrigus's most sturdy counters. Choice Scarf Hydreigon lures in the special walls that Cofagrigus hates so that the team's physical attackers can break past them; Hydreigon also lures opposing Draco Meteors, often presenting Cofagrigus with setup opportunities. Other U-turn users such as Gligar and Scizor can provide Cofagrigus with free switches into favorable positions, potentially leading to a sweep. Stealth Rock setters like Empoleon and Nihilego help ensure Cofagrigus OHKOs on Hydreigon and Krookodile with +2 Hidden Power Fighting, often providing the small amount of chip damage necessary to do so. Entry hazards can hinder Cofagrigus's ability to set up by whittling it down over time, so hazard removal options such as Tentacruel and Hydreigon pair nicely. Cofagrigus possesses a decent array of utility moves that could be utilized on a more defensive set such as Will-O-Wisp, Toxic Spikes, Pain Split, Hex, and Haze. However, its mediocre defensive typing and poor HP stat prevent any combination of these from being too effective in comparison to its extremely threatening offensive Trick Room set.
Cofagrigus (SS competitive strategy): Cofagrigus is a frightening IronPress sweeper that is able to find setup opportunities against physical attackers such as Sawk, Gurdurr, and Rhydon as well as common walls like Cryogonal and Galarian Stunfisk. Shadow Ball covers for the Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Uxie and Palossand and physical walls like Tangela and Qwilfish that its main offensive move in Body Press does not threaten. Rest is Cofagrigus's most reliable form of recovery and removes status. 84 Speed EVs allow Cofagrigus to outspeed Rhydon and Gurdurr. A Colbur Berry allows Cofagrigus to eat strong Dark moves like Silvally-Dark's Multi-Attack and Thievul's Dark Pulse, while a Chesto Berry prevents Cofagrigus from wasting two turns sleeping. Cofagrigus generally fits best on bulkier builds in need of a defensive sweeper. Cofagrigus appreciates Dark resistant-teammates like Skuntank, Silvally-Fighting and especially Alcremie due to its ability to cure status via Aromatherapy. It also appreciates a solid special wall, like Articuno or Clefairy. Spikes setters such as Qwilfish and Coalossal make it harder for Cofagrigus to be pivoted around. Cofagrigus can also appreciate physical walls like Tangela and Altaria to help it avoid hits from Gourgeist formes and common Toxic users. Cofagrigus can run Nasty Plot instead of Iron Defense to better threaten physical walls like Tangela and Qwilfish; however, Nasty Plot can be hard to justify because it severely weakens the matchup against Miltank and makes Cofagrigus far easier to revenge kill. Cofagrigus can replace Rest with Trick Room to beat checks like Rotom and Thievul, or Substitute to evade status, but these options reduce Cofagrigus's overall durability. Another option for Cofagrigus is a utility set with its many excellent support options such as Will-O-Wisp, Toxic Spikes, Knock Off, Hex, and Pain Split, but it faces tough competition from Qwilfish and Roselia. Lastly, Cofagrigus can run Sleep Talk over Iron Defense on Rest sets to not completely waste 2 turns sleeping; however, this voids its sweeping potential.
Incineroar (SM competitive strategy): Thanks to Incineroar's great Attack, incredibly wide movepool containing many support and coverage options, and ability Intimidate, it is a very flexible Pokemon in the NU metagame, being able to function as either a potent wallbreaker or a useful pivot. High base Attack and wide coverage make Incineroar one of NU's most potent offensive threats, which is only boosted by its access to the exclusive Z-Move Malicious Moonsault, which lets it OHKO nearly any Pokemon that doesn't resist it after a Swords Dance boost. A good defensive typing and great defensive stats combined with Intimidate mean that Incineroar has the natural bulk to take on Fire-, Ice-, and Dark-types. Intimidate also allows it to function as a very useful pivot, increasing its physical bulk, and helping it to support its team. Incineroar is also the best setup Pokemon under dual screens, as its defensive utility combined with the increased bulk of dual screens gives Incineroar a very easy time accruing multiple boosts. However, a weakness to passive damage and no recovery moves means that it is easily worn down, which, combined with its low Speed stat, leaves it easily revenge killed. Swords Dance allows Incineroar to increase its impressive Attack to even higher levels, making it incredibly hard to wall. Knock Off is Incineroar's most reliable Dark-type attack and can remove items. If using Incinium Z, then Darkest Lariat must be used so that Incineroar has access to Malicious Moonsault. Earthquake hits Rhydon for super effective damage and hits Guzzlord for respectable damage, allowing Incineroar to eliminate them after a Swords Dance boost if they are slightly worn down. Flare Blitz is Incineroar's hardest-hitting move in general, 2HKOing Passimian unboosted. Maximum Attack and maximum Speed EVs allow Incineroar to hit as hard as possible while outspeeding most of NU's defensive Pokemon, including Blastoise and Seismitoad. A Jolly nature allows Incineroar to outspeed positive Speed nature base 50 Pokemon, such as Jolly Scrafty and Pangoro. Intimidate allows Incineroar to reduce an enemy's Attack upon switching in, providing it with an opportunity to set up while taking less damage. Figy Berry lets Incineroar switch into entry hazards more times, lets it better check Pokemon such as Comfey, and has good synergy with Flare Blitz. Incinium Z turns Darkest Lariat into Malicious Moonsault, a 180 Base Power attack that can generally KO or heavily dent any Pokemon that doesn't resist it. Even unboosted Incineroar hits very hard, so it is often helpful to throw out strong attacks early-game. Flare Blitz can 2HKO Passimian unboosted, so it is often useful to use it if you expect Passimian to switch in, as removing Passimian means Incineroar is significantly harder to revenge kill. If Incineroar needs to set up Swords Dance to break the opponent's team, its HP must be preserved, so avoid switching it into unnecessary attacks. As Incineroar cannot typically break past its checks, such as Rhydon, without significant prior damage or a Z-Move, time its Z-Move usage very carefully. Intimidate can be used as a last-ditch effort to weaken a foe that Incineroar's team can't otherwise take on, so letting Incineroar be KOed to get an Intimidate off can occasionally be justified. As Incineroar is often walled or revenge killed by Fighting-types, Pokemon that resist Fighting such as Slowking and Garbodor are incredibly helpful. Entry hazard removal makes it significantly easier to use Incineroar, so partners such as Blastoise and Rotom are appreciated. Pokemon that can take on Ground-types for Incineroar such as Vaporeon, Rotom, and Decidueye are also ideal partners. Pokemon such as Houndoom and Braviary that appreciate Incineroar's ability to weaken enemy Rock-types are often good partners. Given Incineroar's prominent weakness to Water, Pokemon that can handle Water-type moves such as Vaporeon and Sceptile can be great partners. Flare Blitz is Incineroar's Fire-type STAB of choice due to it threatening Comfey better than any other option. Fire Blast can be used to take advantage of Passimian's and Steelix's lower special bulk, 2HKOing the latter outright and 2HKOing the former after Stealth Rock most of the time. However, without Flare Blitz, Comfey can use Incineroar as setup fodder. Knock Off lets Incineroar remove items from enemies and also deals respectable damage, being especially useful against Pokemon such as Rhydon. U-turn combined with Incineroar's low Speed stat allows it to pivot out of bad matchups and bring in teammates without them taking damage. Earthquake is Incineroar's strongest attack against opposing Incineroar and Rhydon, which would otherwise be difficult to damage. Alternatively, Will-O-Wisp lets Incineroar support its team by crippling switch-ins such as Passimian and Rhydon. 244 HP EVs maximize Incineroar's HP and let it activate its Berry after switching into Stealth Rock three times. 100 Defense EVs with an Impish nature let Incineroar avoid the 3HKO from Mega Glalie's Earthquake and help it switch into physical attackers like Sneasel and Decidueye. The remaining EVs go into Special Defense to help Incineroar switch into Pokemon like Rotom and Whimsicott. Intimidate minimizes the damage Incineroar takes when switching into physical attackers, increasing its survivability. Figy Berry restores 50% of Incineroar's HP when it is low and gives it a substantial increase in bulk. Thanks to Incineroar's weakness to passive damage, the Berry's effect often comes into play. This set functions primarily as a pivot and, as such, Incineroar should aim to come in on attacks it takes little damage from and either throw off a safe attack or U-turn out, bringing a teammate in. Will-O-Wisp should be used when expecting a physical attacker to switch in that threatens Incineroar out, such as Rhydon or Passimian. Knock Off is generally a fairly safe move to use and can be thrown out without much risk if the opponent doesn't have a clear play. Stealth Rock and other forms of passive damage can be taken advantage of to guarantee that Incineroar consumes its Figy Berry, but in general, Incineroar's teammates should keep the field clear of hazards. Using Intimidate to reduce a foe's Attack and then using U-turn to switch out to an appropriate teammate is often a good strategy to help wall an opposing Pokemon and reduce the damage Incineroar's team takes. Incineroar can often freely U-turn out against enemies it expects to switch out, such as Decidueye and Rotom, giving its team momentum. Intimidate can be used as a last-ditch effort to weaken a foe that Incineroar's team can't otherwise take on, so letting Incineroar be KOed to get an Intimidate off can occasionally be justified. As Fighting-types resist Incineroar's safest move in Knock Off, having a Pokemon that resists Fighting such as defensive Slowking or Garbodor is very helpful. U-turn and Volt Switch users can capitalize on Incineroar's usage of U-turn to continuously put the opponent into a disadvantageous position. Entry hazard removal makes it significantly easier to use Incineroar, allowing it to pivot with more freedom, so partners such as Blastoise and Rotom are great. Incineroar appreciates friendly Ground-resistant Pokemon or Pokemon that can otherwise take Ground-type attacks such as Blastoise, Rotom, and Whimsicott. Given Incineroar's prominent weakness to Water-type attacks, partners such as Vaporeon and Sceptile can be effective. Wallbreakers such as Mega Glalie and Medicham appreciate Incineroar's slow U-turn, allowing them to come in with significantly less risk. Bulk Up makes it hard for even super effective attacks from the likes of Aerodactyl and Passimian to revenge kill Incineroar and boosts Power Trip's damage output significantly. Flame Charge prevents Incineroar from being outsped and revenge killed by Pokemon like Magmortar, Sceptile, and Accelgor after a few uses. Power Trip lets Incineroar capitalize on its many forms of setup, becoming incredibly strong once stat boosts are accrued and allowing it to break Pokemon like Rhydon, Blastoise, and even Pyukumuku. Substitute shields Incineroar from status from Pokemon like Druddigon, Pyukumuku, and Wish Delphox, as well as letting it safely set up against such Pokemon. Alternatively, Drain Punch is Incineroar's best form of damage against opposing Incineroar as well as other Dark-types like Pangoro, Scrafty, and Guzzlord and improves its longevity. Taunt prevents Pokemon with Roar like Steelix from phazing Incineroar and Toxic users like Vaporeon, Blastoise, and Golbat from crippling it, although Substitute's utility is generally superior. Maximum HP investment makes Incineroar much harder to take down, especially with the support of Bulk Up, while maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature lets it outspeed common revenge killers like Aerodactyl, Choice Scarf Passimian, and Sceptile at +2 as well as Heliolisk and Delphox at +1. Weakness Policy provides Incineroar with a huge boost in power to Power Trip once activated and synergizes well with Bulk Up and dual screens support. Intimidate makes it easier for Incineroar to set up against Pokemon like Sneasel and Dhelmise. It isn't advised to directly switch Incineroar into Knock Off users like Sneasel and Dhelmise; although Incineroar's bulk, typing, and ability let it take hits from them well, losing its Weakness Policy is not ideal. Therefore, it's better to bring it in via pivots and double switches. Depending on the circumstance, it may be better to boost with Bulk Up or Flame Charge first. For instance, if the opponent's form of revenge killing cannot threaten heavy damage to Incineroar, boosting with Bulk Up is more practical. Similarly, if the opponent possesses fast, strong attackers like Aerodactyl and Magmortar, ensuring Incineroar can outspeed and dispose of them is more imperative. Additionally, if you expect the opponent to activate Incineroar's Weakness Policy, using Flame Charge to get the power boost of two Bulk Ups along with an increase in Speed is preferred. Certain passive Pokemon like Blastoise and Xatu may be more inclined to badly poison Incineroar with Toxic before it has racked up too many boosts rather than get immediate chip damage with their attacks. Use Substitute to give Incineroar another turn of free setup. This set is specialized for dual screens teams. As such, it requires support from Xatu or Electrode to function properly. Each Pokemon can also bring Incineroar safely into battle with U-turn or Volt Switch and prevent entry hazards from going up with Magic Bounce or Taunt. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Druddigon, Accelgor, and Mega Glalie is also beneficial, as it helps Incineroar break through checks like Rhydon and opposing Incineroar more reliably. Druddigon can also provide speed control with Glare and prevent opposing hazards with Taunt, while Accelgor and Mega Glalie can create momentum with Final Gambit and Explosion. Other setup sweepers like Comfey, Vivillon, and Mismagius fit on dual screens teams as well. Comfey and Mismagius can keep entry hazards on the field with Taunt and, in Mismagius's case, its Ghost typing, while Mismagius appreciates Incineroar's ability to pressure opposing Ghost-types. Additionally, all three can pressure Fighting-types. Choice Band makes Incineroar immediately stronger while still letting it provide pivot support with U-turn at the cost of significant longevity. Groundium Z lets Incineroar OHKO Pokemon that resist its Dark-type attacks, such as Hariyama and Guzzlord, after a Swords Dance, as well as OHKOing Pokemon such as Rhydon, which can normally take a Malicious Moonsault. Firium Z allows Incineroar to OHKO Passimian on the switch; however, its usage must be timed extremely well. Taunt allows Incineroar to bypass Pyukumuku and generally improves its matchup against stall, but giving up a valuable coverage move allows foes such as Passimian and Hariyama to come in for little risk. Rest and Sleep Talk can be used with Bulk Up and a move of choice, such as Power Trip, to turn Incineroar into a late-game sweeper; however, the lack of utility early-game and the reliance on a singular attack make this set unreliable.
Incineroar (SS competitive strategy): Incineroar's typing, decent mixed bulk, and Intimidate make it a resilient pivot that checks threats such as Chandelure, Celebi, Reuniclus, and Dhelmise. It also has some very useful utility moves; Knock Off is great for removing Leftovers and Heavy-Duty Boots from targets such as Gastrodon, Noivern, and Togekiss, while Toxic can catch and wear down threats such as Gastrodon, Diancie, and opposing Incineroar. However, Incineroar has no recovery to speak of. This is somewhat mitigated by Heavy-Duty Boots removing entry hazard damage from the equation, but it does make Incineroar very vulnerable to Knock Off and Toxic. Incineroar's typing is overall quite good, but leaves it with annoying weaknesses to Water, Ground, and Fighting, which are exploited by threats such as Sharpedo, Flygon, Lucario, and Heracross. Overheat is preferred over Flare Blitz due to it hitting targets such as Steelix, Bewear, Metagross, and Doublade harder while preserving Incineroar's HP. Toxic can catch threats such as Gastrodon, Diancie, and Milotic, although Swords Dance can improve Incineroar's matchup against Calm Mind Reuniclus and Strength Sap Polteageist. Incineroar is quite effective at spreading Toxic, as most Steel- and Poison-types do not want to switch into Overheat or Knock Off. U-turn is preferred for pivoting because Clear Body and Magic Bounce users cannot block it and because most Rocky Helmet users aren't eager to switch into Incineroar. Parting Shot weakens foes instead, giving a bit more safety to frail attackers, such as Gardevoir, Heliolisk, and Starmie, and setup sweepers, such as Cloyster, Mimikyu, and Barbaracle. A Sassy nature is used because Incineroar is pretty slow already and it doesn't want to weaken either of its main attacks, while a specially defensive spread improves Incineroar's matchup against threats such as Chandelure, Salazzle, and Roserade. 20 Attack EVs ensure that Knock Off OHKOes Chandelure. Incineroar properly switching into Chandelure and being a great buffer against most Fire-types is appreciated by many Grass-types. These include Celebi, Roserade, Dhelmise, and Vileplume, all of which can check Ground- and Water-types such as Flygon, Gastrodon, Sharpedo, and Suicune. The latter three also provide a resistance to Fighting, which can prove very useful against threats such as Cobalion. Incineroar really wants to keep its Heavy-Duty Boots; Galarian Weezing and Rocky Helmet Cobalion can work as Knock Off absorbers. Psychic-type teammates, such as Reuniclus and Gardevoir, appreciate Incineroar pivoting into dangerous Ghost-types such as Chandelure and Mimikyu. Incineroar's ability to weaken foes with Parting Shot is appreciated by frailer offensive teammates, such as Xurkitree, Gardevoir, and Golurk, and gives setup opportunities to sweepers such as Cloyster, Barbaracle, Lucario, and Raikou. A set utilizing Bulk Up, Power Trip, Flame Charge, and Drain Punch with a Weakness Policy can be used on dual screens hyper offense as a devastating sweeper. Various weakness Berries can be utilized to let Incineroar lure in specific threats; Chople Berry can be used for Lucario, while Shuca Berry can give Incineroar a buffer against Metagross. Losing Heavy-Duty Boots is hugely detrimental, however, and puts a ton of pressure on your team's entry hazard control.
Incineroar (SV competitive strategy): The combination of Knock Off, good typing, and Intimidate makes Incineroar a great wallbreaker while being a solid defensive Pokemon. Sword Dance sets can make Incineroar into a great wallbreaker, since many defensive staples like Amoonguss, Galarian Slowbro, and Registeel just drop to its Swords Dance-boosted STAB attacks. Also, Incineroar easily checks the common Ghost-, Grass-, and Steel-types like Chandelure, Decidueye, and Klefki, meaning it can take advantage of its utility moves with a defensive pivot set if it wishes. It has Will-O-Wisp and Knock Off to cripple incoming physical wallbreakers like Toxicroak, Flygon, and Paldean Tauros-W and item-reliant Pokemon like Diancie, Avalugg, and Swampert. Defensive Incineroar is also solid for handling special wallbreakers such as Chandelure, Porygon-Z, and Heavy-Duty Boots Munkidori. However, Incineroar's low Speed stat makes it very easy for wallbreakers with a middling Speed tier like Basculegion, Breloom, and Heracross to outspeed and destroy it with their own STAB attacks. Incineroar's reliance on Heavy-Duty Boots can be felt, since it has to be wary of switching into opposing Knock Off from Tsareena, Alolan Muk, and Wo-Chien. It even has to worry about switching into the Pokemon it checks best, Chandelure, as it carries Trick to cripple Incineroar. Incineroar also lacks any form of recovery, making it easily worn down over the course of a battle. U-turn allows Incineroar to pivot on, chip away at, and not get taken advantage of by its checks like Swampert and Diancie. Earthquake, on the other hand, provides a powerful attack with no drawback that also hits the common Rock- and and Fire-types like Diancie, Dragalge, and Paldean Tauros-F. An Adamant nature can be used to allow Incineroar to 2HKO Alolan Muk, but a Jolly nature is useful for outspeeding foes like Modest Choice Specs Sylveon and unboosted Torterra. A specially defensive spread of 248 HP / 212 SpD / 48 Spe with a Careful nature can alternatively be used on Swords Dance sets, letting it better pivot into foes like Chandelure, Munkidori, and Meloetta; the Speed EVs let Incineroar outpace Alolan Muk. Tera Poison gives Incineroar an immunity to poison from Alolan Muk and Amoonguss while having a resistance to Fighting-type attacks. However, Tera Fairy provides a more well-rounded defensive typing that isn't weak to Ground-type attacks while still resisting Fighting-type attacks. Tera Ghost allows Incineroar to completely blank Close Combat, and it helps to revenge kill Cinccino. This comes at a trade-off of it having no other useful resistances, though. Incineroar can partner with other pivots like Flygon and Swampert, which tend to draw in Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tsareena for Incineroar to prey on and form a VoltTurn core able to chip away at each other's checks. Entry hazard removers like Brambleghast, Tsareena, and Tentacruel can be great partners, since they can remove entry hazards if Incineroar loses its Heavy-Duty Boots. Incineroar can struggle against bulky Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Swampert that can tank its STAB attacks, so it pairs with Pokemon like Toxicroak, Amoonguss, and Gastrodon, as they can check the aforementioned Water-types. Fairy- and Poison-types like Sylveon and Dragalge appreciate Incineroar for checking Steel-types like Registeel, Klefki, and Bronzong; in return, they can check Fighting-types like Paldean Tauros-W and Flamigo. Will-O-Wisp allows Incineroar to cripple its common switch-ins like Diancie, Swampert, and Paldean Tauros-W. Parting Shot lets Incineroar weaken foes, pivot, and provide safety for setup sweepers. However, U-turn can be used because it allows Incineroar to pivot out from Diancie and Registeel, which would usually be immune to Parting Shot due to their Clear Body ability. The given EV spread allows Incineroar to get the jump on Vaporeon while having as much special bulk as possible. Tera Fairy provides it the ability to check Dragon- and Fighting-types like Flygon and Heracross while also letting it resist the omnipresent U-turn. Alternatively, Tera Dragon gives Incineroar the ability to check a myriad of special attackers like Toxtricity and Inteleon. Tera Water is similar to Tera Dragon but replaces a Grass resistance for an Ice resistance, making Incineroar better against Inteleon. Grass-types like Tsareena, Brambleghast, and Amoonguss are great partners for Incineroar, since they can handle bulky Water- and Ground-types such as Vaporeon, Swampert, and Gastrodon. Fighting-types like Flamigo, Toxicroak, and Infernape can force Incineroar to switch, so it best pairs with physically defensive Pokemon like Galarian Slowbro, Bellibolt, and Sylveon that can handle the aforementioned Fighting-types. Additionally, Sylveon can provide Incineroar with recovery by passing it a Wish. Wallbreakers like Inteleon, Munkidori, and Toxtricity appreciate Incineroar's slow Parting Shot, as they can get a free entry on Rock-, Fighting-, and Water-types that tend to switch in on Incineroar. Setup sweepers like Swords Dance Toxicroak and Dragon Dance Flygon similarly appreciate Incineroar's Parting Shot weakening foes and it giving them more opportunities to set up. Incineroar's longevity is limited and can be cut severely if it loses its Heavy-Duty Boots, so it pairs well with entry hazard removers such as Tsareena, Tentacruel, and Brambleghast. Close Combat is an option to hit many foes neutrally like Swampert and Diancie while also hitting opposing Incineroar super effectively. Flame Charge gives Incineroar the opportunity to become a late-game cleaner after picking off a weakened threat. Alternatively, Trailblaze can be used alongside Tera Grass to hit Water-types super effectively, but it's pretty reliant on Terastallization to do good damage. Iron Head can be used on Swords Dance Incineroar to surprise Sylveon, Diancie, and Florges, but the ability to pivot, boost its Speed, or use a high-Base Power coverage move tends to be better overall. Weakness Policy + Power Trip sets can be used on hyper offense teams, letting Incineroar become a dangerous sweeper. Incineroar has a bunch of usable defensive Tera types, but they are really inconsistent for many teams. Tera Flying helps Incineroar take on Fighting- and Ground-type attacks, but it retains its weakness to Stealth Rock. Tera Grass gives Incineroar a resistance to Water- and Ground-type attacks but gives it a bad matchup against opposing Fire-types like Chandelure, Infernape, and Hisuian Typhlosion.
Tapu Lele (SM competitive strategy): Tapu Lele easily sets itself apart from a jungle of powerful wallbreakers in OU due to its unique ability: Psychic Surge. Said ability sets Psychic Terrain automatically, boosting Tapu Lele's Psychic-type attacks for free and making them wickedly difficult to tank or switch into directly. The Terrain also protects grounded Pokemon from priority attacks; as many priority users such as Mega Mawile, Ash-Greninja, and Mega Scizor rely on their respective attacks to stop faster threats, Tapu Lele can limit their actions and allow itself or teammates to completely overpower these threats. With these traits combined with great offensive stats and a good typing, Tapu Lele is a frightening force of nature, capable of utterly breaking numerous team archetypes while boasting unique threat coverage along with downright scary flexibility in its item and set usage. However, Tapu Lele dislikes the fact that many bulky Steel-types, especially Magearna and Celesteela, can easily switch into both of its STAB attacks. The coverage attacks it usually runs to address them as well as other checks and counters tend to be too weak or shaky to use consistently without fair prediction or prior damage. Tapu Lele's average physical bulk and good—but not fantastic—Speed also tend to hold it back, making it often vulnerable to revenge killing. Regardless, as Tapu Lele is always rather unforgiving in its power and versatility, all team archetypes must exercise caution against it. Psychic deals an insane amount of damage to even the most semi-bulky of resistant targets; 252 HP Heatran, for instance, gets 2HKOed with one layer of Spikes or equivalent prior damage. Dark- and Psychic-types such as Mega Tyranitar and Mega Latias daring enough to try switching into Psychic are maimed by a STAB Moonblast instead, which also has great Base Power and general coverage. Though running two parallel Psychic-type attacks on the same set may seem redundant, Psyshock is an integral attack in the third slot for its ability to break physically frail Pokemon; for example, it beats Chansey and specially defensive Gastrodon while making dents in Assault Vest Magearna and defensive Celesteela. Hidden Power Fire cleanly OHKOes Ferrothorn and Mega Scizor, preventing either from responding with an attack or recovery move. It also picks off Skarmory, Mega Mawile, Excadrill, and Magnezone at higher percents while being a sufficient option against Jirachi. Alternatively, Focus Blast can be used to OHKO Heatran at the expense of losing out on a strong hit on Mega Scizor. Though this set sports terrifying nuking power that can let it potentially tear through threats early- or mid-game, it is important to ascertain its worth in a match depending on the opposing team structure. In particular, this set breaks balanced teams almost completely, as Tapu Lele is fast and powerful enough to overwhelm typical defensive Pokemon while limiting frailer offensive targets' opportunities to switch in. Still, this set should typically be played cautiously, as these archetypes can adapt to unfavorable situations with more bulky or resistant units. Against offensive teams with usually fast and defensively average Pokemon, Tapu Lele can typically exert pressure with Psychic and Moonblast all day until it eventually faints; in such cases, it has probably amassed more than enough damage for fellow cleaners to come in. It is generally not advised to switch in Tapu Lele too aggressively because it is a fantastic offensive asset against nearly all team archetypes. Due to Choice Specs locking Tapu Lele in a single move, prediction should be exercised against opponents with multiple resistant or immune Pokemon. For instance, seeing a Dark-type or two in Team Preview means using Moonblast is the safer choice over Psychic early-game; especially if they are Pursuit trappers like Weavile or Mega Tyranitar, which can take advantage of a Choice-locked Tapu Lele and heavily damage it. Likewise, otherwise good switch-ins such as Celesteela and Jirachi can have a chunk of their health taken off with Hidden Power Fire. Though Tapu Lele can break through most threats with the correct coverage move and prediction, it would rather have the ease of choosing its STAB moves instead of its weaker and unreliable coverage attacks. Tapu Lele is also easy to check due to its only decent Speed and its being locked into one attack, so at least some support against Dark- and Steel-types makes things easier. For example, Magnezone traps and KOes most Steel-types that love switching into Tapu Lele, including Ferrothorn, Celesteela, Jirachi, and Mega Scizor. In general, U-turn and Volt Switch users are good teammates to get Tapu Lele in the field safely—slower ones are especially valued because they are typically bulky enough to take hits and provide further ease in prediction. Defensive Landorus-T is exemplary of this, as it also blanket checks most physical attackers and Steel-types thanks to Intimidate while providing Stealth Rock support. Likewise, Mega Scizor and Rotom-W can also provide a slower U-turn or Volt Switch while keeping several of Tapu Lele's checks and counters in check, especially Celesteela in the case of Rotom-W. Tapu Koko is also worth consideration, as its fast offensive sets threaten a variety of checks and counters to Tapu Lele, including Celesteela and Greninja. Both Tapu Lele and Tapu Koko can also reset each other's Terrains to prevent each other's from expiring at inconvenient times. Since Tapu Lele applies a great deal of pressure and tends to force switches, entry hazard setters can further assist in breaking down switch-ins and defensive Pokemon. Ferrothorn is good in this respect, since it can run either Stealth Rock or Spikes while owning other pros, including fantastic defenses as well as Leech Seed and Iron Barbs to wear down the opposition. Greninja is a more offensive choice that can lay Spikes and be offensively tailored depending on team needs. For instance, a physically offensive Protean set can lure in Tapu Lele's checks, such as Low Kick to nearly 2HKO Celesteela or Dig alongside Groundium Z for Assault Vest Magearna, while Ash-Greninja has the option of utterly decimating offensive teams when Tapu Lele is through and done. Both appreciate Tapu Lele's ability to pressure Toxapex in return. Do note that Psychic Terrain stops Ash-Greninja's Water Shuriken from threatening grounded foes, however. In terms of teammates that benefit from Psychic Terrain in particular, Mega Medicham and Mega Gallade enjoys the extra power for their Zen Headbutt as well as Tapu Lele's ability to break through defensive checks and counters, most notably Mega Sableye, allowing them to clean up when appropriate. Though Mega Alakazam is rather redundant with Tapu Lele because they run similar coverage moves, it benefits from Psychic Terrain's powering up its Psychic-type moves and preventing priority from hitting. Mega Alakazam also boasts high offensive stats as well as the ability to revenge kill Sand Rush Excadrill and other weather sweepers thanks to Trace. Other usually priority-weak sweepers such as Volcarona and the aforementioned Ash-Greninja also benefit from Psychic Terrain; however, in practice, they only have a couple of turns to make good use of the Terrain unless Tapu Lele faints the same turn one of them is sent in. Psyshock is the best STAB option for non-Choice variants of Tapu Lele because it hits specially defensive walls like Magearna and Chansey harder, and the difference in power compared to Psychic is negligible. It can even be powered up by Psychium Z for a monstrously strong STAB attack that can OHKO neutral targets like Gliscor and Clefable and hit opposing Special Defense stats rather than Defense. Moonblast rounds out Tapu Lele's coverage, hitting Dark-types like Ash-Greninja and Mega Tyranitar. Focus Blast can be used in combination with Fightinium Z to dispatch Heatran and Mega Mawile and break through weakened Steel-types like Jirachi and Celesteela after a boost. Hidden Power Fire is especially lethal against Mega Scizor and Ferrothorn, OHKOing the former and KOing the latter after insignificant chip damage. Hidden Power Fire also doesn't require a Z-Crystal to be consistent, so it's the move of choice for Psychium Z and Twisted Spoon variants, with the added bonus of hitting Shedinja. Calm Mind allows Tapu Lele to boost All-Out Pummeling and Hidden Power Fire into KO ranges and hit harder without being prediction reliant. The Special Defense boost aids Tapu Lele in setting up against the likes of Rotom-W, Magearna lacking a Steel-type move, and Tapu Fini. Taunt can be used to invalidate passive checks to Tapu Lele like Chansey and especially Cresselia. A Modest nature is used to maximize Tapu Lele's wallbreaking power, but Timid can be used to outspeed Jolly Excadrill, Kommo-o, and offensive Landorus-T and Speed tie with opposing Timid Tapu Lele and Kyurem-B. Fightinium Z is used alongside Focus Blast, but if Focus Blast isn't present on the set, then Psychium Z or Twisted Spoon should be used instead, with Hidden Power Fire replacing Focus Blast. Psychium Z allows Tapu Lele to hit incredibly hard neutrally, and Twisted Spoon stacks with Psychic Terrain to make Psyshock consistently stronger without using up a Z-Crystal; some notable examples include a very likely 2HKO on Chansey and also Heatran if Tapu Lele used Calm Mind previously. Tapu Lele works great early-game, softening up defensive Pokemon like Assault Vest Magearna and Heatran; it has an impressive Special Defense stat, so it can do this incredibly aggressively by trading its own HP to accrue even more damage and set up a teammate like Mega Alakazam for later. It should aim to set up before using its Z-Move, as this lets All-Out Pummeling reach KO ranges and maximizes the efficiency of the one-time nuke, Shattered Psyche. Tapu Lele should be mindful of its HP, as at higher percentages, it can take advantage of weaker special attackers by setting up on them with Calm Mind, and Taunt variants can beat Chansey and Cresselia one-on-one without risking being KOed by repeated Seismic Tosses and Ice Beams. Tapu Lele should avoid status at all costs, as it won't have the longevity to break through bulky teams after being put on a timer, and it can't threaten defensive Pokemon as potently when slower than them due to paralysis. This set is great against stall teams, as it can set up a Calm Mind against lead Mega Sableye and cannot be handled via prediction. Hidden Power Fire is more specialized for the stall matchup, as Fightinium Z variants are blanked by Shedinja. This set works great on offense teams, which appreciate how Tapu Lele can break down defensive stopgaps like Landorus-T, Rotom-W, and Magearna so that its teammates can clean up. Mega Mawile and Ash-Greninja appreciate Tapu Lele's ability to threaten Toxapex and chip down Assault Vest Magearna, and they can threaten its checks, like Victini and Jirachi, in return; it's important to note that Psychic Terrain puts a stop to Mega Mawile and Greninja's Sucker Punch and Water Shuriken, respectively, against grounded foes. Mega Alakazam shares similar Steel-type checks with Tapu Lele, heavily appreciates how it can force its way through them over time, and loves the Psychic Terrain that it brings, as it prevents Mega Alakazam from being revenge killed by priority users like Ash-Greninja, Mega Lopunny, and Mega Mawile and boosts the power of its STAB Psychic. Offensive Magearna variants like Shift Gear and Trick Room sets appreciate Tapu Lele's ability to break past Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Mega Scizor, and they can clean up late-game. Pivoting support from the likes of Landorus-T, Rotom-W, Magearna, and Tornadus-T allows Tapu Lele to get in unscathed and threaten to set up. Fast Pokemon like Greninja and Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T and Kartana can help balance out Tapu Lele's middling Speed stat. Psychic is Tapu Lele's strongest attack, capable of KOing many common fast, offensive Pokemon and doing a chunk to Pokemon that resist it. Moonblast is a strong alternative attack to fall back on in case the opposing team has Dark-types or healthy Psychic-types. Hidden Power Fire is a passably sufficient weapon against Steel-types such as Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Mega Mawile, which like to switch in otherwise thanks to this set's lack of boosted power. Thunderbolt is a good coverage attack, allowing this set to slay regular Gyarados in a single hit and Mantine in two (other moves can only 3HKO it while it stalls with Roost). Thunderbolt also pressures cores that rely on multiple Electric-weak Pokemon, such as Greninja \+ Toxapex or Celesteela \+ Tapu Fini. Nature's Madness can be run to punish Pokemon that switch into Tapu Lele for free otherwise, such as Assault Vest Magearna and Celesteela. As a quick note, Psyshock is not very useful on this set, as it barely scratches physically weaker targets such as Chansey without a boosting item. Thus, this set prefers the raw power of Psychic. Maximized Speed and Special Attack investment with a Timid nature is simply straightforward for a Choice Scarf set, enabling Tapu Lele to safely revenge kill Mega Alakazam, Choice Scarf Landorus-T, and anything slower. With the increased Speed provided by Choice Scarf as well as superb natural special offense, Tapu Lele can act as both a revenge killer and a cleaner. Depending on the opposing team, it may be wise to preserve Tapu Lele to do either later in the match. Be careful about simply using Psychic if the opponent has healthy Dark- and Steel-types active. In this case, use coverage moves to KO or wear such targets down on the switch. Even without a boosting item, Tapu Lele still has marginally enough power to wallbreak on rare occasions, in which case you can utilize it to weaken foes. Tapu Lele will be cleaning up and revenge killing, so teammates that can weaken Psychic- and Fairy-resistant or immune Pokemon make it much easier for Tapu Lele to spam Psychic and Moonblast without resorting to weaker or inaccurate coverage attacks. Heatran, for instance, instantly threatens and checks a majority of Steel-types with its offensive sets. A specialized solution is to use Magnezone, which traps pesky Steel-types that tend to switch into Tapu Lele's STAB moves. Toxapex can be a good partner on more balanced teams, as it typically handles some boosted and faster threats that Tapu Lele cannot revenge kill itself, such as Mega Charizard X, Volcarona, and Choice Scarf Greninja. Tapu Lele tends to force switches, and since this set is rather lacking in power outside of Psychic, entry hazard support is necessary to pressure and wear down the opposition. The aforementioned Heatran, Ferrothorn, Greninja, and Landorus-T are examples of Pokemon that fit on a wide variety of offensive or balance teams and can set up either Stealth Rock or Spikes. Though Shuckle is rather specialized, it deserves mention for also setting Sticky Web, allowing Tapu Lele and its teammates to pressure and beat threats they could not trump before, such as Choice Scarf Greninja and +1 Volcarona. To further apply offensive pressure, wallbreakers are greatly helpful; Hoopa-U is a prime example due to benefiting from Psychic Terrain while sporting a colorful and unpredictable array of attacks to whittle down Tapu Lele's checks and counters. Mega Medicham is a terrifying wallbreaker under Psychic Terrain that can help pressure Tapu Lele's checks in Chansey and Steel-types. Assault Vest improves Tapu Lele's bulk massively and gives it a lot of freedom to trade damage with the likes of Magearna and Greninja. Twisted Spoon is an option to boost Tapu Lele's Psychic-type attacks without the downside of being locked into them via a Choice item. Taunt is a great option on these sets to shut down the likes of Clefable and Cresselia. Tapu Lele can use an Electric-type attack of choice to inflict more solid damage on Celesteela specifically—Psychic Terrain-boosted attacks will usually do more damage to Water- and Flying-types except Skarmory. In particular, a combination of Electrium Z and Thunder becomes Tapu Lele's best attack against specially defensive Celesteela, KOing it after a bit of prior damage. Thunderbolt is a more reliable move should the user choose to use another item. Nature's Madness in tandem with Tapunium Z can also be used to severely weaken checks like Magearna and Jirachi. Similarly, other Z-Crystals such as Ghostium Z can be used to lure in and take out specific checks and counters, like Jirachi and specially defensive Mew.
Tapu Lele (SS competitive strategy): The combination of a monstrous Special Attack stat, a great offensive STAB combination, and a phenomenal ability makes Tapu Lele one of the most feared wallbreakers in OU. Psychic Surge makes Tapu Lele's Psychic-type STAB attacks deal mind-boggling damage with Choice Specs, 2HKOing bulky neutral targets such as Landorus-T, Tapu Fini, and Volcanion with its Psyshock, and helps it retain substantial power even on sets without Choice Specs, still OHKOing threats weak to its STAB moves like Buzzwole and 2HKOing neutral targets like Slowbro. Tapu Lele can play a late-game cleaner role with Choice Scarf or be an incredible wallbreaker with Choice Specs. Choice Scarf lets Tapu Lele also provide solid speed control, improving its otherwise average Speed. Calm Mind sets are another option for Tapu Lele that offers offer strong sweeping potential. Additionally, Psychic Terrain gives Tapu Lele extra utility by preventing priority moves from the likes of Weavile, Urshifu-R, and Scizor. This heavily benefits faster teammates and makes setting up easier for them. However, Tapu Lele's Speed often leaves a lot to be desired without a Choice Scarf, with it getting outsped and overwhelmed by common offensive threats such as Kartana, Garchomp, and Blacephalon. Even Choice Scarf variants can be outsped and overwhelmed by other Choice Scarf users like Kartana and Blacephalon. This issue becomes much more concerning when one considers Tapu Lele's middling bulk, leaving it prone to revenge killers like Weavile and Kartana. Tapu Lele also lacks a consistent way to hit Steel-types like Heatran and Melmetal due to Focus Blast's inaccuracy. Choice Scarf allows Tapu Lele to bypass its middling Speed tier while still remaining very threatening due to its excellent STAB moves, useful coverage in Focus Blast, and great ability in Psychic Surge. Future Sight supports most physical attackers that Tapu Lele is paired with, notably overwhelming would-be defensive answers to Pokemon like Weavile and Urshifu-R, letting them 2HKO checks like Corviknight and Clefable with Triple Axel and Surging Strikes, respectively. Psyshock cuts through specially bulky Pokemon like Blissey, Galarian Slowking, and Gastrodon by taking advantage of their weaker Defense stat. Focus Blast allows Tapu Lele to deal significant damage to Steel-types like Melmetal, Ferrothorn, and Heatran that would otherwise completely wall it. Psychic can be used over Focus Blast as an alternative cleaning option, since it has higher power than Psyshock and hits specially, giving Tapu Lele the option to hit physically defensive targets like utility Zapdos and Clefable; however, this gives Tapu Lele a harder time against bulky Steel-types like Ferrothorn. A Modest nature is preferred to give Tapu Lele an important power boost against targets like Blissey and specially defensive Heatran, having a favorable chance to 2HKO them with Psyshock and Focus Blast, respectively, but a Timid nature can be used to hit certain benchmarks like outspeeding +2 Adamant Blaziken and Choice Scarf Tapu Fini. This set fits best on offense teams, providing them with solid Speed control and offensive support with Psychic Surge-boosted Future Sight. Weavile and Urshifu-R make for great partners as Future Sight can shut down their common switch-ins, but various other physical attackers like Melmetal, Kartana, Victini, and Rillaboom appreciate Future Sight hitting physically defensive Pokemon like Skarmory, Toxapex, and Buzzwole. The benefits of Future Sight are not limited to physical attackers, however, as special attackers like Choice Specs Dragapult and Volcanion appreciate Future Sight assisting them in chipping down special walls like Gastrodon and Blissey. Fast sweepers like Dragon Dance Dragapult and Swords Dance + Scale Shot Garchomp are emboldened by Psychic Terrain blocking priority moves like Weavile's Ice Shard. Offensive pivots like Dragapult and Urshifu-R can force switches in order to bring in Tapu Lele, and slow pivots like Slowbro and Landorus-T can take a hit first before using U-turn or Teleport to get Tapu Lele in safely, both of which are helpful due to its unimpressive bulk. Magnezone can forcibly remove Steel-type checks to Tapu Lele like Corviknight and Ferrothorn. Equipped with Choice Specs, Tapu Lele becomes an absolutely monstrous wallbreaker capable of decimating defensive staples such as Clefable, Galarian Slowking, and Toxapex. Psyshock lets it 2HKO special walls like Blissey and Galarian Slowking while also doing more damage to specially defensive Heatran than Psychic. Moonblast complements Psyshock extremely well, targeting Dark-types such as Weavile, Tyranitar, and Galarian Moltres while also hitting Dragon-types such as Dragapult, Garchomp, and Dragonite. Psychic is a stronger STAB option that lets Tapu Lele deal more damage to the likes of Melmetal and Corviknight. Meanwhile, Focus Blast is Tapu Lele's best option against Steel-types, OHKOing Melmetal without Assault Vest and Ferrothorn and 2HKOing Heatran. Thunderbolt is Tapu Lele's strongest move against Corviknight, Slowbro, and Slowking, while Shadow Ball lets Tapu Lele hit Aegislash, Victini, Jirachi, and Shedinja. A Modest nature increases Tapu Lele's power, maximizing the odds for OHKOs on Ferrothorn and physically defensive Heatran with Focus Blast and Toxapex with Psyshock. It also allows Tapu Lele to OHKO offensive Zapdos with Psychic and 2HKO Corviknight with Focus Blast. However, a Timid nature lets Tapu Lele outspeed the likes of Timid Nidoking, Excadrill, and Timid Rotom-W. Choice Specs Tapu Lele fits best on offensive teams thanks to its insane wallbreaking potential. Slow, bulky pivots such as Landorus-T, Corviknight, Slowbro, and Rotom-W make for excellent partners for Tapu Lele, each shielding its mediocre bulk from powerful attackers and ensuring that it can switch in safely on Pokemon such as Slowbro, Landorus-T, and Buzzwole. Faster-paced offensive pivots such as Dragapult, Tapu Koko, and Urshifu-R also make for solid partners, as they can let Tapu Lele in by forcing switches into Pokemon such as Landorus-T and Slowbro that it can take advantage of. Urshifu-R in particular can lure in defensive Pokemon that are vulnerable to Tapu Lele such as Toxapex and Zapdos while also appreciating Tapu Lele luring in Heatran and Melmetal. Frail offensive Pokemon that are vulnerable to priority like Volcarona and Blacephalon heavily appreciate the protection given by Tapu Lele's Psychic Terrain. Late-game sweepers such as Blacephalon, Weavile, and Volcarona appreciate Tapu Lele threatening Pokemon like Landorus-T, Tyranitar, and Zapdos, letting them more easily apply pressure to weakened opposing teams. In return, these Pokemon are able to threaten Steel- and Dark-types such as Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Tyranitar that could otherwise force Tapu Lele out. This also eases Choice Specs's prediction-reliant nature. Speed control from the likes of Choice Scarf Urshifu-R and Choice Scarf Kartana is also appreciated, as they can help Tapu Lele deal with faster threats such as Dragapult, Blacephalon, and Tapu Koko. Calm Mind Tapu Lele is a devastating setup wallbreaker that terrorizes passive teams, as it can take advantage of forced switches to set up and muscle through checks like Ferrothorn, Clefable, and Blissey. Psyshock takes advantage of special walls like Blissey and Galarian Slowking. Focus Blast gives Tapu Lele excellent coverage, as it nails Steel-type checks that resist its STAB combination like Heatran, Melmetal, and Ferrothorn. Shadow Ball can also be run in this moveslot if Tapu Lele desires to obliterate rarer checks like Aegislash, Shedinja, Slowking, and Jirachi, but it makes Tapu Lele less effective against more standard Steel-type checks. Thunderbolt is another alternative that serves as a midground between the aforementioned moves by threatening defensive cores made up of Pokemon that resist Tapu Lele's STAB types, such as Slowking, Toxapex, and Corviknight. Removing Corviknight is particularly notable, as it resists Tapu Lele's STAB combination while being neutral to its other coverage moves. Twisted Spoon powers up Psyshock to outrageous levels, allowing it to 2HKO Blissey unboosted. A Timid nature ensures that Tapu Lele outruns threats like Swords Dance Landorus-T and Timid Nidoking. As Calm Mind Tapu Lele is relatively frail and lacks Speed, it appreciates teammates that provide speed control and bring it onto the field safely. This makes Choice Scarf users like Urshifu-R and Kartana good offensive partners, as they outspeed threats like Choice Specs Dragapult and Blacephalon that force Tapu Lele out. Urshifu-R has the distinction of being able to pivot Tapu Lele in safely with U-turn, and Calm Mind Tapu Lele preys on the bulk of Urshifu-R's switch-ins, such as Toxapex and Buzzwole. Checks to the aforementioned Dragapult and Blacephalon are highly appreciated: Heatran is an exemplary teammate, as it has the bulk to take boosted Shadow Balls and retaliate with Earth Power or Toxic. It also appreciates Tapu Lele removing specially defensive walls that can stave it off like Gastrodon and Hippowdon and threatens the Steel-types that switch into Tapu Lele, such as Melmetal and Ferrothorn. Specially defensive Landorus-T is another Dragapult and Blacephalon check that sacrifices the ability to take hits comfortably for the utility of U-turn to bring Tapu Lele in safely. Heatran and Landorus-T also bear the distinction of being good Stealth Rock setters, wearing down switch-ins like opposing Heatran, Galarian Slowking, and Corviknight into range of Tapu Lele's attacks. It is important to have checks to physical threats that naturally outspeed Tapu Lele: utility Tornadus-T can take on Kartana and Urshifu-R, while Rotom-W is a good stopgap to Weavile and Urshifu-R. Both Pokemon come with the bonus of providing safe entry for Tapu Lele with U-turn and Volt Switch, respectively. Weavile has unique synergy with Tapu Lele, as it can offensively pressure Dragapult thanks to its typing and overload Steel-type checks like Ferrothorn, Heatran, and Melmetal that are often tasked to deal with Tapu Lele as well. On rain teams, Choice Specs Tapu Lele can use Thunder to take advantage of its perfect accuracy to punish Corviknight and Skarmory hard. Outside of rain teams, Tapu Lele can use Thunderbolt to hit these Pokemon, though Choice Scarf Tapu Lele fails to consistently 2HKO Corviknight. Aromatherapy can be used on Choice Scarf sets to revitalize statused teammates, like Weavile or Urshifu-R burned by Flame Body or paralyzed by Static, giving them a second wind and punishing opponents that trade chip damage on their Pokemon for status on Tapu Lele's key teammates. Rocky Helmet can be used on the Calm Mind set to punish contact moves like U-turn, specifically multi-hit moves like Triple Axel and Surging Strikes. Choice Scarf Tapu Lele can drop Future Sight for a different move like Psychic or Thunderbolt if a teammate like Slowbro already has Future Sight.
Tapu Lele (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Tapu Lele functions as a great speed control option while still retaining its devastating STAB combination and good wallbreaking power. Its STAB moves threaten a myriad of foes such as Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and unboosted Garchomp that would otherwise outspeed Tapu Lele, while Focus Blast nails Steel-types like Melmetal, Ferrothorn, and Kingambit. Hidden Power Fire allows Tapu Lele to hit Mega Scizor and Gholdengo super effectively, while Psyshock lets Tapu Lele break through specially defensive walls, 2HKOing Galarian Slowking as an example. Future Sight allows Tapu Lele to set up its teammates that otherwise struggle with Poison-types and physical walls, like Zamazenta or Mega Lopunny, to pose an even larger threat considering their best checks like Toxapex and Alomomola are reticent to switch in lest they get blasted. Tapu Lele fits well on balance teams looking for a way to solve their speed control problems while retaining good power. Fighting-types like the aforementioned pair as well as Urshifu-R make natural partners for Tapu Lele, as both break one another's checks; the Fighting-types break through troublesome Steel-types like Ferrothorn and specially defensive Heatran so that Tapu Lele does not have to risk Focus Blast's accuracy woes while Tapu Lele scares out Poison-types like Toxapex to let the trio of Fighting-types break through. Said Fighting-types also help wonders against Pursuit trappers such as Mega Tyranitar and Kingambit attempting to trap and remove Tapu Lele. Mega Tyranitar is another great partner for Tapu Lele, as it removes a pair of Tapu Lele's biggest checks in Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking thanks to Pursuit while dealing major damage to specially defensive stopgaps such as Heatran. Hazard setters like Gliscor and Ferrothorn also pair well with Tapu Lele, as they weaken Tapu Lele's checks like offensive Gholdengo and Ferrothorn into range of being KOed by one of Tapu Lele's STAB options or Hidden Power Fire, lessening its burden of prediction. Choice Specs Tapu Lele functions as a potent wallbreaker, being able to muscle through common defensive cores with its STAB move combination and coverage. Moonblast and Psychic largely cover each other's weaknesses, making it difficult for defensive pieces such as Ting-Lu and Toxapex to switch in. Psyshock hits Pokemon with high Special Defense, such as Blissey and Galarian Slowking. Focus Blast targets Steel-types such as Kingambit, Heatran, and Melmetal, while Hidden Power Fire threatens Mega Scizor, Gholdengo, and Ferrothorn more reliably. Focus Blast is generally preferred to avoid getting fully walled by Heatran, which can otherwise switch in reliably. Fighting-types such as Urshifu-R and Zamazenta appreciate Tapu Lele's ability to punch through checks such as Toxapex and Mega Venusaur. In return, both teammates break through Steel-types, and Urshifu-R beats Moltres, enabling Tapu Lele to use its STAB moves more freely; they also beat Pursuit trappers that can sometimes be problematic for Tapu Lele. Tapu Lele also appreciates Pursuit users such as Mega Tyranitar and Kingambit trapping Ghost-types such as Gholdengo. Tapu Lele often finds itself vulnerable to faster threats such as Ogerpon-W and Weavile, meaning fast teammates such as Speed Booster Energy Iron Valiant are appreciated. Tapu Lele also appreciates Spikes setters such as Ting-Lu and Ferrothorn, with Ting-Lu providing a good switch-in to Gholdengo, which Tapu Lele struggles with. Tapu Lele values Spikes, as it chips common checks such as Heatran, allowing Tapu Lele to clean up games more easily. In general, setup sweepers benefit from Psychic Terrain support, notably including Dragonite, Scale Shot Garchomp, and Volcarona, as it gives them an immunity to powerful priority moves from Pokemon such as Kingambit and Mega Lopunny. Tapu Lele also breaks Pokemon such as Ting-Lu for these teammates. Tapu Lele is a fearsome wallbreaker, attributing its success to its Psychic Terrain-boosted attacks, ability to threaten metagame staples such as Gliscor, Toxapex, Raging Bolt, and Great Tusk, and lack of prediction mandated by a Choice item. Focus Blast allows Tapu Lele to hit the Steel-types that would plague it, such as Melmetal, Kingambit, Ferrothorn, and Heatran. Psyshock is an option over Psychic to hit Pokemon like Volcarona, Galarian Slowking, and Blissey; however, Psychic is usually preferred due to its higher damage against targets like Moltres and Gliscor. Hidden Power Fire and Future Sight are other options over Calm Mind; the former is a consistent way of hitting Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Gholdengo, whereas the latter pairs well with wallbreakers like Zamazenta and Ogerpon-W while also being Tapu Lele’s strongest form of Shattered Psyche. Psychium Z gives Tapu Lele a burst of power that guarantees the OHKO on Pokemon like Clefable, Tornadus-T, and Gliscor. With Fightinium Z, Tapu Lele OHKOes Melmetal lacking Assault Vest and Assault Vest Kingambit while also having a favorable roll to OHKO Ferrothorn after Stealth Rock. Tapu Lele is a good option on offense and bulky offense teams that appreciate it punching holes in fat and balance teams, which have limited ways of pivoting around it. Pokemon like Kingambit, Zamazenta, and Ogerpon-W like Tapu Lele breaking through their checks such as Toxapex, Raging Bolt, and Great Tusk. These Pokemon also appreciate the potential Future Sight support Tapu Lele can give. Tapu Lele likes Pursuit from Weavile, Mega Tyranitar, and Kingambit, as they help remove checks such as Gholdengo, Iron Crown, and Assault Vest Tornadus-T. Tapu Lele has a middling Speed tier that allows threats like Ogerpon-W and Mega Charizard Y to easily outpace and revenge kill it. Therefore, teammates like Garchomp, Ferrothorn, and Kingambit are appreciated. However, it should be noted that Psychic Terrain blocks Kingambit’s Sucker Punch. This set aims to bolster Tapu Lele's special bulk, allowing it to soft-check Pokemon like Raging Bolt and opposing Tapu Lele while still breaking through physically defensive foes such as Landorus-T and Great Tusk. Psychic is good at chunking physical walls like Garganacl and Gliscor, while Psyshock works well against Galarian Slowking, Blissey, and Clodsire. Focus Blast lets Tapu Lele beat out most Steel-types like Kingambit and Iron Treads along with Mega Tyranitar, while Hidden Power Fire enables Tapu Lele to incinerate Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Gholdengo. 176 Speed EVs on Tapu Lele allow it to outrun Adamant maximum Speed Rillaboom and Hisuian Samurott. Assault Vest Tapu Lele fits well on offensive teams that need it to sponge special attacks while also threatening foes like Great Tusk and Raging Bolt. It also has the ability to block priority moves, which is appreciated by Gholdengo and Iron Valiant, since they're protected against Kingambit and Mega Scizor, respectively, among others. Steel-type teammates like Melmetal and Heatran pair nicely with Tapu Lele, due to it threatening out Fighting-types like Great Tusk and Iron Valiant that these Pokemon would otherwise lose to; in return, they beat foes like Roaring Moon and Gholdengo for it. Tapu Lele is weak to physical attacks, so physical walls like Landorus-T and Great Tusk are a good fit with it to cover for physical threats like Heavy Slam Zamazenta and Garchomp, while Tapu Lele takes special attacks from the likes of Kyurem and Raging Bolt. Pivoting moves like U-turn from the aforementioned Landorus-T and Moltres are also appreciated for safely bringing in Tapu Lele. Hawlucha is good to consider with Psychic Seed, allowing it to activate Unburden and clean Steel-types like Melmental and Kingambit, while Tapu Lele helps it deal with Poison-types like Toxapex and Clodsire with its Psychic-type STAB moves.
Dhelmise (SM competitive strategy): Dhelmise excels as a utility Pokemon thanks to its typing, bulk, and access to Rapid Spin and reliable recovery, providing it with multiple opportunities each game to switch into threats such as Heliolisk and Passimian and remove entry hazards. Dhelmise also has a great matchup against most Stealth Rock setters in the tier, letting it outright prevent Stealth Rock from being set in ideal scenarios. Additionally, thanks to Dhelmise's great Attack stat, it doesn't struggle with passivity issues like Blastoise does; this also lets it run a fearsome Choice Band set capable of dealing with even the sturdiest of physical walls in Steelix and Weezing. However, Dhelmise struggles against the most common and influental Pokemon in the tier in Incineroar and gives it free opportunities to switch in and set up with Swords Dance. Dhelmise also suffers from its terrible Speed tier, leaving it easily revenge killed by faster threats such as Delphox, Flyinium Z Aerodactyl, and Magmortar. Power Whip is Dhelmise's strongest Grass-type STAB attack and hits opposing entry hazard setters like Steelix, Palossand, and Torterra for solid damage while OHKOing Rhydon. Anchor Shot lets Dhelmise prevent switch-ins like defensive Hariyama, Ferroseed, and Golbat from making a double switch while also giving Dhelmise a way to hit Grass- and Ground-resistant Pokemon like Xatu, Decidueye, Braviary, and Vivillon for fantastic damage. Rapid Spin allows Dhelmise to clear entry hazards. Synthesis is Dhelmise's most consistent form of recovery and lets it reliably check Pokemon like Rhydon and Passimian. Alternatively, Earthquake lets Dhelmise beat Garbodor while also dissuading Pokemon like Incineroar and Delphox from switching in. Maximum Attack investment with an Adamant nature lets Dhelmise hit as hard as possible. 204 Speed EVs let Dhelmise outspeed Vaporeon. The remaining EVs go into HP to provide Dhelmise with more bulk. Steelium Z allows Dhelmise to OHKO Garbodor and Decidueye with Corkscrew Crash. A Colbur Berry lets Dhelmise better take Knock Off from the likes of Passimian, Pangoro, and Scrafty while also helping Dhelmise avoid being Pursuit trapped by Pokemon like Sneasel and Absol. Steelworker is Dhelmise's only ability and powers up Anchor Shot. Dhelmise should be brought in on Stealth Rock setters that don't pose a significant threat to it such as Steelix, Rhydon, and Miltank. Look to use Rapid Spin against Pokemon Dhelmise forces out such as Passimian, Heliolisk, and Vaporeon. However, be wary of opposing Ghost-types switching in to prevent a successful Rapid Spin. Utilize Anchor Shot's trapping capabilities to freely switch in the appropriate check to the opponent's Pokemon. This Dhelmise variant can relatively easily switch into Fighting-types like Passimian, Hariyama, and Scrafty, as Colbur Berry reduces the damage taken from a potential Knock Off. Rest should be used when Dhelmise has taken heavy damage or sustained a status ailment like a burn or Toxic poison. If using Synthesis, use it to heal chip damage from resisted hits like Heliolisk's Volt Switch and Sceptile's Giga Drain, but be mindful of Synthesis's low PP. Dhelmise's Rapid Spin support is appreciated by builds that revolve around setting Spikes. Garbodor appreciates Dhelmise being able to clear entry hazards without clearing its Spikes as well as Dhelmise's ability to switch into common Stealth Rock setters like Steelix and Rhydon. Cleric support from the likes of Mega Audino and Vaporeon is greatly appreciated so that Dhelmise can be woken up by Heal Bell after using Rest. Additionally, Mega Audino and Vaporeon provide Wish support for Dhelmise, further augmenting Dhelmise's ability to check Pokemon like Rhydon, Passimian, and Sceptile. Because of Dhelmise's weaknesses to both Ice and Fire, Pokemon with Thick Fat like Hariyama and Miltank make excellent partners, with Miltank also appreciating Dhelmise's ability to absorb Fighting-type moves. Stealth Rock setters like Piloswine, Steelix, and Rhydon have good synergy with Dhelmise, as they can threaten Flying-types such as Braviary, and Rhydon can also deal with Fire-types like Delphox and Houndoom. Since Dhelmise has a weakness to Dark, Pokemon like Incineroar, Guzzlord, and Hariyama are excellent teammates. Additionally, Incineroar can punish Choice item Pursuit users like Sneasel and Houndoom by using Swords Dance if they lock themselves into Pursuit. Power Whip is Dhelmise's strongest Grass-type STAB move and lets it threaten common Water-, Ground-, and Rock-types such as Slowking, Steelix, and Rhydon. Heavy Slam gives Dhelmise the means to heavily damage Pokemon that resist Power Whip such as Braviary, Xatu, and Decidueye. Alternatively, Anchor Shot can be run to 2HKO Guzzlord while also letting Dhelmise trap switch-ins at the cost of doing less damage overall. Earthquake rounds out Dhelmise's coverage by hitting Fire-types like Incineroar, Delphox, and Magmortar for super effective damage while also reliably 2HKOing Guzzlord after Stealth Rock damage. Knock Off cripples common switch-ins such as Steelix, Ferroseed, and Golbat and softens them up for Dhelmise's stronger STAB attacks. Maximum Attack investment and an Adamant nature let Dhelmise hit as hard as possible. 204 Speed EVs let Dhelmise outspeed everything up to Vaporeon. The remaining EVs are dumped into HP to provide Dhelmise with additional bulk. A Choice Band further augments Dhelmise's wallbreaking capabilities and lets Dhelmise 2HKO Steelix and Guzzlord. Steelworker is Dhelmise's only ability and provides Dhelmise with a 1.5x boost to Heavy Slam and Anchor Shot. Dhelmise has an excellent matchup against stall builds because it finds multiple opportunities to switch in against passive Pokemon like Mega Audino, Miltank, and Pyukumuku, fearing only a potential Toxic. Against more offensive teams, look to pivot Dhelmise in on a resisted hit such as Sceptile's Leaf Storm and then retaliate with an attack. Because of Dhelmise's solid bulk, it can easily be pivoted in on Stealth Rock users like Torterra, Steelix, and Rhydon. Thanks to its Ghost typing, Dhelmise can switch into Close Combat from Pokemon like Passimian and Hariyama, but it must be wary about a potential Knock Off. Because of their sheer strength and utility, all of Dhelmise's moves are easy to spam early-game. Both Power Whip and Heavy Slam heavily dent common switch-ins like Steelix and Incineroar, while Knock Off cripples Ferroseed and Golbat by removing their Eviolite. This Dhelmise set fits best on bulky builds, which can cover its weaknesses to common attacking types. Stealth Rock setters such as Steelix and Rhydon are also good partners, checking Flying-types like Vivillon and Braviary for Dhelmise. Because of Dhelmise's weakness to common Ice-, Fire-, and Dark-types like Mega Glalie and Incineroar, Hariyama is an excellent partner that can check said Pokemon while also exerting pressure on physically defensive foes. Dark-types such as Incineroar work well alongside Dhelmise by beating problematic Ghost-type Pokemon like Decidueye and Rotom. Furthermore, Sneasel, Houndoom, and Absol can provide Pursuit support to trap and remove Ghost-types. Cleric support from the likes of Mega Audino and Vaporeon is greatly appreciated by Dhelmise because it makes switching in on Scald from bulky Water-types less punishing. In addition, Mega Audino and Vaporeon provide Wish support for Dhelmise, letting it more comfortably pivot into resisted hits from Pokemon like Passimian and Torterra. Dhelmise is affected by every kind of entry hazard, so Pokemon that can clear or prevent entry hazards such as Silvally-Steel, Blastoise, and Xatu are helpful partners. Because Dhelmise is a slow wallbreaker, it appreciates being safely pivoted in. Passimian and Silvally-Steel can bring Dhelmise in safely with U-turn and Parting Shot. Passimian in particular is an excellent pivot to pair with Dhelmise, as Passimian draws in bulky Water-types like Blastoise, Slowking, and Vaporeon for Dhelmise to give it more opportunities to wallbreak, while Dhelmise forces in Incineroar and Guzzlord, both of which Passimian can beat. Dhelmise can drop Anchor Shot for a couple of options on the Rapid Spin set. Earthquake lets Dhelmise hit Fire-types such as Incineroar and Delphox for respectable damage although leaves it helpless versus Weezing and Golbat. Similarly, Knock Off lets Dhelmise neuter Golbat, Steelix, and Berry Incineroar by removing their items but doesn't provide any useful coverage, meaning Dhelmise must rely entirely on Power Whip for its offense.
Dhelmise (SS competitive strategy): Dhelmise is one of NU's few viable spinners thanks to its solid all-around bulk, good matchup against common Stealth Rock setters, and reliable recovery in Synthesis. Dhelmise can easily take on foes like Diancie and Mudsdale thanks to its powerful STAB moves and spin their Stealth Rock away, and it's also able to answer common offensive threats such as Swords Dance Silvally-Ground and Aerodactyl. Sadly, Dhelmise is a bad check to Water-types despite being a Grass-type: it's weak to Mantine's Hurricane; is very vulnerable to being crippled by Vaporeon, Gastrodon, and Quagsire; and cannot check Starmie or Inteleon well because of their super effective coverage. It also cedes a lot of momentum against NU's plethora of common Dark-types like Guzzlord, Drapion, and Scrafty. Heavy-Duty Boots keeps Dhelmise healthier when switching into Silvally-Ground as well as other attackers like Stakataka, Copperajah, and Virizion. Alternatively, going itemless prevents Poltergeist users like Golurk and Decidueye from threatening Dhelmise as easily. Maximum physical bulk is needed for taking on physical attackers like Copperajah, Passimian, and +2 Silvally-Ground. Colbur Berry is another item option that makes it harder for foes like Guzzlord and Drapion to revenge kill Dhelmise; however, it makes Dhelmise a worse response to foes like Poltergeist Golurk and Decidueye, and Dhelmise can't really threaten these Pokemon anyway. More offensive EV spreads improve Dhelmise's Copperajah matchup and let it 2HKO Sylveon at the cost of immense bulk. Knock Off works over Poltergeist on Spikes teams with heavy item displacement, but this makes it easier for Poison-types like Weezing and Toxicroak to switch into Dhelmise.
Glimmora (SV competitive strategy): Glimmora is one of the tier's premier leads thanks to its ability to set up Stealth Rock and deny opposing entry hazards with Mortal Spin, all while scaring foes from activating Toxic Debris in the process. Toxic Debris's potential to set up Toxic Spikes can prove lethal against certain teams, particularly more offensive ones due to the lack of offensive Poison-types in OU outside of Iron Moth able to absorb them. Mortal Spin's side effect of inflicting poison detracts Pokemon such as Ting-Lu from setting up entry hazards multiple times and Hatterene from trying to deny Stealth Rock with Magic Bounce. Power Gem lets Glimmora hit most targets for decent damage, and notably chips at Corviknight, Skarmory, and Gliscor that would otherwise wall Glimmora, with Corviknight also removing its entry hazards with Defog. Earth Power allows Glimmora to hit Steel-types such as Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Heatran, which otherwise are able to block Mortal Spin, with the former two also resisting Power Gem. Mud Shot is another option over Earth Power, as its side effect of lowering the foe's Speed allows Glimmora to win the mirror matchup against opposing Glimmora. Mud Shot can also slow down foes trying to use Glimmora as setup fodder, such as Iron Valiant and Ogerpon-W, preventing them from getting out of hand. Focus Sash allows Glimmora to survive any one hit and thus be able to set up Stealth Rock safely. Red Card can be used instead, allowing Glimmora to make use of its natural bulk and typing to take a hit and thus phaze setup sweepers like Iron Valiant and Iron Moth—which is notable in the hyper offense mirror—preventing its team from getting overrun by boosted offensive threats. Red Card is also useful to disrupt the opposing team, potentially forcing a foe out to take Stealth Rock or Toxic Spikes damage as well as phaze a setup sweeper. This variant prefers a bulkier EV spread instead, such as running 252 HP / 140 Def / 116 SpD with a Calm Nature; this allows Glimmora to survive two Psyshocks from Iron Valiant, with the remaining special bulk letting it take on +1 Protosynthesis Raging Bolt's Thunderbolt as well. Tera Ghost grants Glimmora with an immunity to Rapid Spin from the likes of Great Tusk and Iron Treads, denying their attempts from removing Glimmora's entry hazards. Glimmora finds its home on hyper offense teams that enjoy it starting the match strong by setting up Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes from the beginning. Kingambit greatly appreciates this, as even Pokemon that resist Sucker Punch like Darkrai and Enamorus can potentially get KOed by +2 Sucker Punch after a round or two of Stealth Rock, while physically defensive walls trying to switch in like Skarmory and Corviknight have to contend with not only Kingambit's attacks but also with the chip damage from Stealth Rock. Iron Valiant similarly enjoys Glimmora's entry hazards chipping at the foes for it and the rest of the team to win late-game, while it also provides Knock Off support to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Dondozo, Alomomola, and Clodsire, making them susceptible to its hazards. Gholdengo may be used alongside Glimmora, as its Ghost typing and Good as Gold ability let it block Rapid Spin and Defog attempts, thus making sure Glimmora's entry hazards stay up. Glimmora may also play a defensive role on occasion, as its good matchup against Skeledirge lets it assist teammates like Iron Moth and Zamazenta that can struggle against it. Due to a strong STAB Meteor Beam alongside decent offensive stats, Glimmora acts as a solid wallbreaker that can also compress roles as an entry hazard remover and setter. Moreover, Glimmora excels against opposing offense, as many of them struggle with Toxic Spikes, meaning the opponent must be careful with how they attack Glimmora. This careful play can be punished by breaking through common bulkier threats that fit well on offense, such as Zamazenta and Gholdengo. Earth Power deals with problematic Steel-types like Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Iron Treads, preventing them from spinblocking Glimmora safely. The move also helps pressure Poison-types like Galarian Slowking and Pecharunt, which can otherwise absorb its Toxic Spikes, more reliably, especially if its Power Herb has been consumed. On top of removing opposing hazards, Mortal Spin can also cripple checks like Ting-Lu and Assault Vest Alomomola. If the team has another Stealth Rock setter, then Glimmora can opt for Spikes instead. Dazzling Gleam alongside Tera Fairy is also an option, granting it super effective coverage against foes like Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Ting-Lu while gaining a good defensive typing against the likes of Dragapult and Kingambit's Sucker Punch. A Timid Nature is used to Speed tie opposing Glimmora and outspeed crucial targets like Gholdengo and Ceruledge, but a Modest nature—especially if Glimmora is ran on Sticky Web teams—is also an option for more power, notably letting it OHKO defensive Landorus-T and having good odds to do so against Corviknight. Tera Ghost lets it importantly spinblock Great Tusk and Iron Treads while letting it take on Zamazenta in a pinch. Glimmora's niche makes it a good fit on hyper offense teams. Gholdengo is a great partner, as it can block hazard removal to keep Glimmora's entry hazards up; it also provides good defensive utility by checking Galarian Slowking and Hatterene. Kingambit is a great offensive partner that can take advantage of the entry hazards that Glimmora sets up and clean up late-game after Glimmora has broken through the opposing team. Other setup sweepers like Dragonite, Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Raging Bolt are also similarly useful, as they can keep up the pressure against the opposition while making use of Glimmora's entry hazards. In return, they also appreciate Glimmora's ability to remove opposing hazards and absorb Toxic Spikes. Glimmora struggles against checks like Ting-Lu and bulkier teams that make use of Heavy-Duty Boots, particularly ones with Blissey and Clodsire; as such, Glimmora appreciates the presence of Knock Off users such as Ogerpon-W, Hisuian Samurott, Iron Valiant, and the aforementioned Great Tusk. Other entry hazards can also help wear them down over time, which the likes of Landorus-T and the aforementioned Ogerpon-W and Hisuian Samurott can provide, with Glimmora complementing them with its own hazard. Sticky Web variants of hyper offense teams anchored by Ribombee or Araquanid as the hazard setter can help compensate for Glimmora's average Speed tier.
Perrserker (SS competitive strategy): Boasting a high Attack stat, two abilities that boost its damage output even further, and access to moves like Seed Bomb and Close Combat to shred the likes of Quagsire and Ferroseed, Perrserker is a very powerful wallbreaker in PU with very few safe switch-ins. In combination with its natural immunity to Toxic and sand damage, this makes for a Pokemon adept at shredding defensive cores. However, Perrserker is very slow for an offensive Pokemon, leaving it outrun and dispatched by many offensive Pokemon such as Charizard, Gallade, Archeops, and Lycanroc. This gives it a much tougher matchup against faster, more offensive teams. Its special bulk is also very lacking, so Pokemon like Galarian Articuno and Ribombee can still heavily damage Perrserker, even though it resists their STAB moves—despite being a Steel-type, Perrserker doesn't contribute much defensive value to your team. Swords Dance lets Perrserker break through most of PU's defensive Pokemon. Seed Bomb hits the Water-types that resist Iron Head, 2HKOing Quagsire and, after Swords Dance, OHKOing Lanturn and 2HKOing Jellicent. Substitute allows Perrserker to set up on weak walls like Ferroseed and Tangela, as well as dodging Weezing and Jellicent's Will-O-Wisp. Steely Spirit boosts Iron Head's power to massive levels, allowing it to 2HKO Weezing and Tangela at +2. Fire-types like Charizard and Centiskorch are highly problematic for this set, so Rock-types like Regirock and Gigalith are great teammates for checking them. Both can also set Stealth Rock for Perrserker. Charizard can scorch the Steel-types that wall this set like Ferroseed and defensive Togedemaru, and it appreciates Perrserker smashing the aforementioned Rock-types, as well as KOing Lanturn and Jellicent. Spikes setters like Garbodor and Qwilfish can help give Perrserker an easier time wallbreaking—one layer of Spikes guarantees an OHKO on Regirock with a +2 Iron Head. Both can also switch into the Fighting-types Perrserker is weak to, such as Hitmonlee. Fast cleaners like Archeops and Ribombee can take advantage of the holes Perrserker can punch in teams. Close Combat hits opposing Steel-types such as Aggron and Ferroseed, OHKOing the former and 2HKOing the latter. Seed Bomb hits the Water-types that resist Perrserker's STAB Iron Head, OHKOing Quagsire and 2HKOing Jellicent. U-turn allows Perrserker to scout switch-ins and safely bring in a teammate. Double-Edge OHKOes Charizard and Centiskorch on the switch if running Tough Claws, two Pokemon that otherwise switch into Perrserker with ease. Tough Claws is the preferred ability on this set, as it powers up all of Perrserker's moves bar Seed Bomb. Steely Spirit can still be used, as it allows Perrserker to 2HKO Sandaconda and Palossand with a slightly stronger Iron Head. This set serves the dual roles of wallbreaker and offensive pivot. Against more defensive teams, Perrserker can use its massive power to smash defensive Pokemon like Regirock and Gigalith, as well as switching into predicted Stealth Rock and Toxic. Against offensive teams, it's best used to check physically frail Pokemon like Galarian Articuno and Ribombee, and it can use the forced switches to safely bring in a teammate with U-turn or fire off a strong attack. Fast Pokemon like Archeops and Choice Specs Ribombee are good teammates to threaten the more offensive teams Perrserker struggles with, while Perrserker can threaten the bulkier teams they struggle with. They all also appreciate the free switches Perrserker can give them with U-turn.
Naganadel (SS competitive strategy): Naganadel is a strong sweeper and cleaner for hyper offense teams with good coverage and strong STAB moves. Nasty Plot is the key to its success, boosting its already high Special Attack much further, which, when coupled with Life Orb, threatens many common defensive Pokemon. It's naturally very fast, and Beast Boost only increases its Speed further. Unfortunately, Naganadel has poor defenses, leaving it susceptible to being revenge killed, and it provides little defensive ability. Its reliance on Nasty Plot for power can also be quite detrimental, as it can be KOed while setting up. Naganadel also faces strong competition from numerous offensive wallbreakers in the tier, directly competing with Eternatus as a Poison / Dragon type wallbreaker, as well as with other special attackers like Xerneas and Calyrex-S. Nasty Plot makes Naganadel a strong sweeper that can boost past many defensive Pokemon including Ho-Oh, Necrozma-DM, and Blissey. Draco Meteor and Sludge Wave are powerful STAB moves that hit a large portion of the metagame for neutral or super effective damage, including Yveltal, Xerneas, Eternatus, and Zygarde. Fire Blast hits most Steel-types that resist its STAB moves, giving Naganadel a nearly unwallable moveset. Life Orb is the only viable item, boosting Naganadel's power as much as possible to sweep through teams, which lets it possibly OHKO Ho-Oh at +2 and OHKOing Blissey at +6 with Draco Meteor. A Timid nature raises Naganadel's Speed above its Special Attack, letting it boost its Speed with Beast Boost after KOing a Pokemon, which makes sweeps easier against teams with a revenge killer. Naganadel exclusively fits on hyper offense teams. Slurpuff, Shuckle, and Galvantula can provide Sticky Web support so that Naganadel can outspeed Pokemon like Calyrex-S and Choice Band Pheromosa without needing to boost, and other leads such as Froslass and Excadrill can set damaging entry hazards. Xerneas is a solid offensive partner, as it applies pressure onto both Necrozma-DM and Ho-Oh, allowing it and Naganadel to overwhelm their shared checks together. Zekrom and Groudon are good physical wallbreakers that force out Pokemon like Blissey and Heatran, forcing them to take more chip damage from entry hazards so that Naganadel can overwhelm them. They also benefit from Naganadel forcing out physical walls like Zygarde-C. Calyrex-S and Pheromosa can still outspeed unboosted Naganadel and +1 Speed Naganadel with a Choice Scarf, so Pokemon that can switch into them like Yveltal and Necrozma-DM are appreciated. With its access to both Spikes and Toxic Spikes, Naganadel can act as an offensive lead for hyper offense teams. It is largely outclassed in this role by Cloyster, though, and losing its wallbreaking power with Nasty Plot is not worth it.
Ferrothorn (BW competitive strategy): There is no Pokemon in BW OU with the same effectiveness as a supporter as Ferrothorn. With a great defensive typing, good stats, and a fantastic support movepool that includes Spikes, Stealth Rock, and Knock Off, it is an invaluable addition to offensive and defensive teams alike. The ability to absorb powerful hits from and check Dragon-type attackers like Latios, Kyurem-B, Dragonite, and Salamence gives Ferrothorn many opportunities to switch in, as does its ability to take powerful Water-type attacks like Hydro Pump from Choice Specs Keldeo and Starmie. Once in, it can set entry hazards, remove the foe's item, or use either of its two powerful STAB moves. However, it must always watch out for a Scald burn from bulky Water-types and Will-O-Wisp from Rotom-W and Jellicent, since being burned greatly reduces its utility. Burn is so fundamental in breaking Ferrothorn that most rain teams spam Scald versus it just to fish for the 30% burn chance. Ferrothorn must also watch out for Trick Latios, since being Choice-locked basically removes it from the game. Its other drawbacks are its Fighting weakness, 4x Fire weakness, and lack of reliable recovery. Since Ferrothorn is the best Spikes user in the tier, Spikes is mandatory on all of its movesets, and the move also gives it something to do after switching in on a foe that can't touch it. Knock Off's main functions are crippling opposing Ferrothorn blocking it from hazard stacking while recovering HP with Leftovers and discouraging Breloom and Gliscor from switching in for fear of having their Toxic Orbs removed. Knock Off also makes Reuniclus and Thundurus-T, two notorious Ferrothorn checks, afraid of switching in directly, since both of them hate losing Leftovers. If your team has other ways of dealing with opposing Ferrothorn, Leech Seed is an option to deal passive damage and heal, but it can be dangerous, since there are a lot of Substitute users in the tier and it gives Grass-types and Magic Guard users a free switch-in. Power Whip and Gyro Ball are Ferrothorn's best attacking options, hitting the majority of the standard metagame for at least neutral damage. Each of these two moves has its merits; the former primarily slams Water-types, such as Rotom-W, Jellicent, Starmie, Politoed, and Keldeo, and punishes Excadrill and Tentacruel that try to use Rapid Spin. The latter is generally more effective against faster Pokemon and those that resist Power Whip such as Latios, Dragonite, Kyurem-B, and Breloom and, unlike Power Whip, it breaks a Substitute from Thundurus-T. Be aware that Gyro Ball has low PP. Because Ferrothorn's Attack stat is less than impressive without any investment, there are several alternatives to running both attacking moves. Stealth Rock is a good option, since Ferrothorn can enter several times in a match to lay entry hazards, and using it also frees up your teammates' moveslots. Worry Seed puts pressure on Gliscor and Breloom that will try to set up on Ferrothorn and wins the matchup against opposing Ferrothorn when used after Knock Off. Worry Seed also lets Ferrothorn escape Magnezone's Magnet Pull; this is most effective in rain, which forces Magnezone to either use a weakened Hidden Power Fire or give Ferrothorn a free Worry Seed turn by using Sunny Day. If those moves are not needed, Thunder Wave has merit as a method of crippling faster powerful threats that often enjoy switching into Ferrothorn, but it doesn't pair well with Gyro Ball. With a Careful nature, 208 Special Defense EVs optimize Ferrothorn's bulk and let it survive three Draco Meteors from Choice Specs Latios so it has more opportunities to lay Spikes. If using Gyro Ball, then a Sassy nature with 0 Speed IVs is optimal. A Lum Berry or Rawst Berry can be used to nullify a burn from Rotom-W's Will-O-Wisp or Politoed's Scald before immediately retaliating with Power Whip. Let Ferrothorn absorb hard-hitting special moves like Draco Meteor from Latios to have opportunities to lay entry hazards. Use Ferrothorn as an opposing Ferrothorn check if your team has difficulties with it; Knock Off is Ferrothorn's second most important move in this situation. Keeping opposing Ferrothorn from recovering HP via Leftovers is extremely helpful in all games. You can also double switch Ferrothorn into a Pokemon that doesn't like to stomach a Power Whip, like Rotom-W or Politoed, so it can use Spikes or Knock Off freely. Take advantage of Ferrothorn's defensive capabilities early-game to lay entry hazards or cripple opposing Pokemon as quickly as possible. Pay attention to whether Iron Barbs damage can prevent Rapid Spin or U-turn spam from opposing Pokemon. Try to avoid getting Ferrothorn burned, since it reduces a lot of its defensive and support potential by putting it on a timer and making its attacks very weak. Be wary of Tentacruel when the rain is up, as it can easily defeat Ferrothorn if it successfully fishes for a Scald burn, and Substitute Tentacruel can PP stall Power Whip and win the matchup with no trouble at all. Rotom-W adds another Water-type check to the team, especially for Keldeo, and helps Ferrothorn by bringing it in safely via Volt Switch or burning opposing Pokemon like Landorus-T, Garchomp, Excadrill, and opposing Ferrothorn. Other Keldeo checks and switch-ins to Fire-type moves like Jellicent, Tentacruel, Gastrodon, Slowking, and Seismitoad are also very good partners. Jellicent in particular makes an interesting combination with Ferrothorn, since they together resist every attacking type in the game outside of Flying and Ground. Jellicent is also capable of spinblocking after Ferrothorn sets entry hazards. Ferrothorn also benefits from teammates that can scare off the Steel-types that give it trouble, namely Skarmory, Heatran, and Excadrill. Landorus-T and Gliscor are awesome partners, since both can check Excadrill, check Fighting-types like Terrakion, and free up Ferrothorn's Stealth Rock moveslot, letting it to be more effective in the match. Politoed also deserves a special mention, since Ferrothorn has formidable defensive synergy with rain teams; its Fire weakness is halved, and it is an awesome Dragon sponge for rain teams. Hard-hitting Pokemon like Latios, Alakazam, Reuniclus, Thundurus-T, Keldeo, Terrakion, Garchomp, and Tyranitar love the extra damage Spikes provides, which makes most 3HKOs become 2HKOs and 2HKOs become OHKOs. Latios particularly is one of Ferrothorn's best teammates, helping keep Keldeo and Heatran in check and loving the Spikes and Knock Off support Ferrothorn provides. Ferrothorn is the primary Stealth Rock setter on rain teams, and Power Whip will seriously threaten bulky Water-types like Rotom-W, Jellicent, Politoed, and Tentacruel. Gyro Ball lets Ferrothorn threaten Pokemon that resist Power Whip, including Latios, Dragonite, and Breloom. Its ability to do so against the last two is important because they can set up on Ferrothorn without the move, especially since they can use Substitute to protect themselves from any other option Ferrothorn can have. Knock Off is an irritating move in general to switch into, as bulky Pokemon treasure the passive recovery from Leftovers and offensive Pokemon would rather have their items that give them extra power or Speed. Spikes are important because they push damage into bulky Pokemon like opposing Ferrothorn and Jellicent that would irritate rain teams. Explosion seems counterintuitive on such a bulky Pokemon, but it prevents Ferrothorn from becoming setup fodder for the likes of Volcarona, Dragonite, and Thundurus-T. Thunder Wave is an irritating move for both offensive Pokemon like Latios that like being fast as well as bulky Pokemon like Reuniclus and Skarmory that dislike giving up free turns. Rain teams often have issues with bulky Water-types, including Rotom-W and Jellicent on sand teams and Politoed and Tentacruel on rain teams. These teams are often reliant on Water-type moves such as Keldeo's Hydro Pump, Latios's Surf, and Politoed's and Tentacruel's Scald to make progress, and the aforementioned bulky Water-types not only resist these attacks but also threaten burns in return, such as Rotom-W and Jellicent with Will-O-Wisp and Politoed and Tentacruel with Scald. However, with a Lum or Rawst Berry, Ferrothorn will shrug off their status, and with maximum Attack investment, Power Whip will seriously sting them. The choice between the two Berries is between whether or not Ferrothorn wants to shrug off paralysis and freeze as well and let a Latios that has used Trick on Ferrothorn shrug off paralysis. Leftovers is another solid item that gives Ferrothorn some passive longevity to enhance its naturally good defensive typing and bulk. A Brave nature is used to boost the power of Gyro Ball further, but an Adamant nature is also possible if it is not used. Ferrothorn fits on rain teams, and Politoed is required on these teams. It, and other Water-types like Tentacruel and Keldeo, appreciates Ferrothorn's ability to take on Grass-, Electric-, and Dragon-types. In exchange, these Water-types threaten the Ice- and Ground-types like Mamoswine and Landorus-T that Ferrothorn can struggle against without bulk investment. Thundurus-T also takes advantage of Ground-types like Landorus-T and Excadrill. Ground-types like Mamoswine, Landorus-T, Excadrill, and Garchomp enjoy Ferrothorn weakening bulky Water-types early-game. Dragon-types like the aforementioned Garchomp, Latios, and Kyurem-B appreciate Ferrothorn's ability to switch into opposing Dragon-type attacks. However, it will struggle to do so repeatedly without bulk investment and especially without Leftovers, so using Ferrothorn with a second Steel-type like Excadrill, Jirachi, or Scizor is a solid idea. Fighting-types like Breloom, Terrakion, and Keldeo threaten Ferrothorn severely, so using teammates that can pivot into or scare them out like Tentacruel and Latios are good. Teams weak to threats such as Quiver Dance Volcarona and Agility Thundurus-T after they have set up could consider offensive Explosion Ferrothorn to deny them the setup opportunity. However, Swords Dance Breloom threatens to OHKO Ferrothorn before a boost, denying the opportunity for it to use Explosion, and Swords Dance Scizor will set up on it anyway, so an Explosion Ferrothorn team will have to consider revenge killers that can deal with these threats. In general, the rain teams that use offensive Ferrothorn will lean more offensive than the ones that use defensive Ferrothorn because Ferrothorn, which is often a pivot on these teams, won't be able to take as many hits without bulk investment; as a result, these teams are less likely to run other defensive Pokemon, and the Politoed will run more offensive sets. Ferrothorn also fits on sand teams, which appreciate its ability to set up Spikes and resist Water. Teammates that enjoy having Spikes weakening their checks, including Reuniclus, Alakazam, and Latios, enjoy Ferrothorn's presence. These Pokemon, in return, repel Fighting-types that threaten Ferrothorn. Because sand teams don't come with a Water-type by default, pairing Ferrothorn with one like Rotom-W or Jellicent is important so that it has a teammate that can take Fire-type attacks from the occasional Heatran and Ice-type attacks from Mamoswine; Rotom-W is immune to Spikes and Ground-type attacks, so it can deal with opposing hazard stacking teams and Ground-types, while Jellicent's Ghost typing makes it superior against Keldeo and spinners. Dragon- and Ground-types also fit well on sand teams, and their synergy with Ferrothorn on sand is as effective as it is on rain. Many Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gliscor can set up Stealth Rock, freeing up Ferrothorn from having to use the move and giving it more moveslot flexibility. Having a second Steel-type, while helpful, is not as important on sand because Tyranitar can remove Latios to relieve Ferrothorn of some of its defensive duties. Shed Shell can be used on more defensive teams to let Ferrothorn Spikes stack with no fear of Magnezone, but the lack of Leftovers recovery cripples its ability to check Pokemon like Choice Specs Latios, and Shed Shell also forces it to play more conservatively versus Knock Off users so it doesn't lose to Magnet Pull. Rocky Helmet can be used on more offensive teams to better punish U-turn from Landorus-T and Rapid Spin from Excadrill and Tentacruel, but normally Ferrothorn gets more use from another item. Chople Berry can be used to survive a hit from Keldeo or Terrakion and KO back with Power Whip, but the lack of Leftovers recovery again makes Ferrothorn struggle in some matches. Protect can be used to stack Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery and scout opposing Choice item users, but it is difficult to fit on Ferrothorn's moveset. Endeavor has some merit on more offensive teams to keep pressuring the opposing team after a couple of entry hazards are down, but this is heavily dependent on good predictions. In the opposite direction, Rest can be used to fully restore Ferrothorn's utility and remove status, since some teams have difficulty in dealing with it outside of stalling for a burn, but in most games Ferrothorn doesn't have the free time necessary to wake up from the sleep. A Impish or Relaxed nature with 48 or 88 Defense EVs can be used to have more balanced defenses, but Ferrothorn normally prefers being able to better enter against Choice Specs Latios. With this in mind, a set with a Careful or Sassy nature and 252 Special Defense EVs to optimize the Latios matchup is possible, but this leaves Ferrothorn a bit vulnerable to Earthquake from Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Excadrill. More offensive sets with Choice Band or Swords Dance are possible but not worth using, since this function is better executed by other Pokemon.
Ferrothorn (XY competitive strategy): Ferrothorn has a lot to love as a defensive Pokemon. First and foremost, it has a great Grass / Steel typing and solid mixed bulk. Together, its unique set of resistances and bulk allow Ferrothorn to check a plethora of threats. In addition to this, Ferrothorn has access to a wide array of support moves, such as Stealth Rock, Spikes, Leech Seed, and Thunder Wave. Because it has decent offensive presence, Ferrothorn can be hard to switch into for many offensively-oriented teams. However, while Ferrothorn's typing gives it a great set of resistances, it also gives it a glaring 4x weakness to Fire-type attacks, which means that Ferrothorn is easily forced out by Fire-type opponents. In addition to this, some special attackers, such as Latios, can get past Ferrothorn if they are carrying Hidden Power Fire. Ferrothorn's typing also leaves it vulnerable to being trapped by the increasingly common Magnezone. Lastly, Ferrothorn's Speed is terrible, which means it has to rely on surviving an attack before using a move itself. Ferrothorn is a consistent setter of Spikes because of its great bulk and ability to beat common entry hazard removers, such as Latios, Latias, and Excadrill. Stealth Rock is an alternative if your team lacks a user of the move. Because of its ability to take on common hazard removers, Ferrothorn is also one of the best defensive Spikes setters. Leech Seed gives Ferrothorn a way of recovering health and is a must on every Ferrothorn set, as it lacks reliable recovery. The damage Leech Seed does is also useful for chipping away at the opponent's health. Gyro Ball is Ferrothorn's primary choice for an attacking move, as it OHKOes Mega Gardevoir, and does significant damage to many fast Pokemon such as Latios, Latias, Gengar, and Fairy-types such as Clefable and Sylveon. Power Whip is generally preferred in the last slot so that Ferrothorn can deal with Substitute Mega Gyarados and hit Azumarill, Keldeo, Excadrill, and Hippowdon hard; it can even be run over Gyro Ball if Protect or Thunder Wave is desirable. Protect in tandem with Leech Seed grants Ferrothorn even more recovery and can scout the opponent's next move. Ferrothorn appreciates all the recovery it can get as it has no form of instant, significant recovery. If the ability to cripple common switch-ins such as Mega Charizard X, Mega Charizard Y, and Heatran is important, Thunder Wave is an option for the last moveslot. Knock Off is yet another option to annoy common switch-ins by removing their item, such as Heatran's, Zapdos's and Mew's Leftovers, and can be run in the last moveslot. Finally, Ferrothorn can opt to run both Stealth Rock and Spikes on the same set, which is effective as Ferrothorn gets opportunities to set up hazards on many common Pokemon and doesn't really need any of the moves in the last slot, though this does put a lot of pressure on Ferrothorn. It's generally only used on more offensively inclined teams that can't fit Stealth Rock elsewhere and are using Ferrothorn for its defensive and supportive traits. The given EV spread with a Relaxed nature lets Ferrothorn fare well against both physically and specially oriented opponents. 168 Special Defense EVs give Ferrothorn enough special bulk to survive two Ice Beams from +3 Manaphy. A Sassy nature with the given EV spread allows Ferrothorn to survive the combination of Hyper Voice + Focus Blast from Modest Mega Gardevoir most of the time, while still avoiding the 2HKO from +1 Mega Gyarados's Earthquake most of the time; the downside is that this leaves Ferrothorn much more susceptible to Crunch from Mega Gyarados and physical attackers in general, so it isn't typically recommended. If there's a lot of stress on Ferrothorn to handle physical attackers such as Azumarill, Life Orb Excadrill, Mega Gyarados, and Diggersby, more Defense investment can be run to tank hit from these Pokemon more easily. An example of a more physically defensive spread is 252 HP / 168 Def / 88 SpD avoids the 2HKO from Adamant Life Orb Excadrill after Stealth Rock damage. Leftovers is the preferred item, as Ferrothorn heavily appreciates the added recovery. Chople Berry is another useful item that allows Ferrothorn to take less damage from Fighting-types or the likes of Mega Gardevoir and Mega Alakazam and proceed to cripple them with Thunder Wave or OHKO the latter two with Gyro Ball. However, Shed Shell is a decent alternative over Leftovers if the ability to escape from Magnezone is more valuable to your team than the extra recovery Leftovers provides. Rocky Helmet is an alternate option over Leftovers or Shed Shell in order to weaken physical attackers that try to hit Ferrothorn with weaker attacks, such as U-turn, Knock Off, and not very effective moves that make contact. It's advised to send in Ferrothorn on a Pokemon that does not really threaten it, such as Azumarill, Chansey, opposing Ferrothorn, Slowbro, or Suicune, and proceed to set up Stealth Rock or Spikes. Leech Seed is the most spammable move in the moveset, and if the opposing team lacks a Pokemon that is immune to it, it's more than likely favorable to use it. Playing carefully with Protect is advised, as it can be easy to take advantage of. Its main uses are letting Ferrothorn gain extra recovery in a pinch and scouting for lures such as Hidden Power Fire Latios. You should always scout for this type of moves by using Protect or switching out, especially if Ferrothorn is important to beat the opposing team. If the opposing team has a Defogger capable of switching safely into Ferrothorn, such as Skarmory or Zapdos, pulling double switches to stop them from Defogging is smart. Lastly, if not running Shed Shell, it's advised to play carefully around Magnezone, especially if Ferrothorn is important to take on a member of the opposing team. Pokemon that are capable of dealing with Fire-types such as Mega Charizard X, Mega Charizard Y, Talonflame, and Heatran make good teammates. Heatran excels at this role, especially if holding an Air Balloon. It can also set Stealth Rock, which allows Ferrothorn to run Spikes. Defiant users that can take advantage of the opponent trying to remove Ferrothorn's entry hazards with Defog, such as Bisharp and Thundurus, also make good teammates. If running a Sassy nature, Ferrothorn's physical walling capabilities are reduced, so Pokemon that can deal with strong physical attackers such as Life Orb Excadrill and Diggersby make great teammates. Defensive Landorus-T is one of the best options, as it is also capable of running Stealth Rock. Fairy-types such as Clefable and Azumarill also make good partners because they can take on Fighting-types. Lastly, Keldeo and Infernape make good teammates, as they are capable of beating Mega Scizor and Bisharp, both of which can use Ferrothorn as setup fodder. While Ferrothorn has access to quite a few support moves, it doesn't really have many other options than the ones mentioned in the main set. Bulldoze hits Heatran and Magnezone hard, but it will not OHKO either of them. Toxic can be used to punish bulky switch-ins, such as Zapdos, Mew, and Mandibuzz, while Curse is a decent boosting option, as Ferrothorn has high Special Defense and is immune to Toxic. Rest is an option alongside Leech Seed for semi-reliable recovery. It should be noted that Ferrothorn has to drop a utility move if running Rest, however. If Ferrothorn is run on Trick Room teams, Explosion is an option, as it does a lot of damage to most opponents and gains momentum for the team. With its decent offensive stats, it also has the option to run a Choice Band set, but such a set is gimmicky and wastes Ferrothorn's potential as a support Pokemon.
Ferrothorn (SM competitive strategy): Ferrothorn is an incredibly effective defensive presence in the tier, thanks to its robust dual typing, great bulk, and intensive arsenal of utility moves, including Stealth Rock, Leech Seed, and the rare Spikes. Finding easy setup opportunities against the many Pokemon it checks, such as Tapu Koko, Choice Specs Greninja, and Tapu Fini, Ferrothorn is perhaps the best entry hazard setter in the tier and is welcomed by any hazard-stacking balance team alongside other setters like Clefable and Toxapex. Though its bread and butter is on bulkier team styles, Ferrothorn is even a great fit on bulky offense teams, forming a support core with Tapu Fini and enabling big threats like Mega Diancie with its presence. Ferrothorn's moveslots can be mixed and matched to harass typical checks, with options like Leech Seed, Thunder Wave, and Knock Off weakening all sorts of switch-ins. As great as Ferrothorn is at doing what it does, there is very little it can do about its abysmal Speed, which, in conjunction with its weaknesses to relevant types to Fighting and especially Fire, can leave Ferrothorn a sitting duck against premier threats like Mega Medicham, Mega Charizard X, and Heatran. Additionally, its reliance on indirect damage forms can be cancelled out by Magic Guard users like Clefable, and its lack of reliable healing becomes incredibly apparent when it loses its Leftovers. Power Whip is virtually undroppable, since it's required to hit back at offensive Water-types like Mega Swampert, Greninja, and Manaphy. Spikes makes up a lot of what sets Ferrothorn apart as a defensive staple and is crucial for punishing opposing switches. Stealth Rock complements Spikes well and can save moveslots for teammates. Despite how important Spikes is, it's possible and not even a bad choice to run Ferrothorn as a pure Stealth Rock setter with no Spikes; this is typically done on either offense teams or teams with entry hazard-weak wincons like Roost Mega Charizard X that you wouldn't be comfortable playing with hazards on both sides with. Gyro Ball is a great complement to Power Whip that allows Ferrothorn to pressure Tornadus-T and Serperior and more favorably trade damage with Kyurem-B and Tapu Lele. Protect is a nice option for Leftovers + Leech Seed variants to increase its longevity and consistency in getting chip damage, with the additional benefit of scouting out High Jump Kick from Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, and Hawlucha as well as Choice item attackers like Tapu Lele and Kartana. Thunder Wave decreases Ferrothorn's passivity against typical threats, such as Mega Charizard X and Kartana. Knock Off is a similar alternative progress-making option, slowly and steadily improving the team’s position against the likes of Toxapex, Clefable, and opposing Ferrothorn, which otherwise just wall Ferrothorn. Leech Seed is great at boosting Ferrothorn's staying power and accruing chip damage on natural checks. Rather than seeking to just reduce the long-term consistency of opposing Pokemon, Toxic is a damage-focused version of Thunder Wave that, despite floundering against Steel-types, Magic Guard users, and Toxapex, can take opposing setup users like Mega Latias out of commission and pressure opposing defensive pieces like Zapdos long-term. 252 HP EVs alongside 16 Defense EVs allow Ferrothorn to always avoid the OHKO from +1 Supersonic Skystrike from Gyarados, with the rest of the EVs and Sassy nature chosen to focus on Special Defense for its main role of checking the likes of Choice Specs Greninja, Magearna, and Tapu Koko. Alternatively, a spread of 252 HP / 76 Def / 180 SpD with a Relaxed nature can be used to always survive Subzero Slammer from a Kyurem-B with a boosting nature. Leftovers is the overall best item for giving Ferrothorn longevity; its absence is extremely noticeable in the face of entry hazards and pivoting moves like Volt Switch. However, for more offensive builds featuring Ferrothorn, a Figy Berry can be used for incredibly efficient trades versus the likes of Tapu Lele, Mega Alakazam, and Greninja. If Ferrothorn drops Gyro Ball, it doesn't need to run a negative Speed nature, opening up Speed ties with uninvested Mega Sableye and letting it outspeed Pyukumuku. Ferrothorn's gameplan and level of aggression primarily depend on the opposing team; against very offensive builds that drop Defog, it can be favorable to lead off with it to trade entry hazards with Landorus-T or threaten the likes of Tapu Lele and Kyurem-B. Ferrothorn is key for dealing with certain attackers like Choice Specs Greninja and Choice Scarf Kartana, but in some matchups, typically against very offensive teams that drop hazard removal, it's okay to sacrifice health on Ferrothorn to set the team up long-term with a hard-to-remove layer of Spikes. However, against bulkier teams with more consistent removal, it's better to choose Ferrothorn's moments to set them up more carefully, aiming to use defensive pieces like Clefable, Tapu Fini, and Chansey as free opportunities. Knock Off is imperative to avoid, meaning that it's unsafe to switch Ferrothorn into an unscouted Tornadus-T or Gliscor, and beware of otherwise easy targets like Clefable, Tapu Fini, and opposing Ferrothorn fitting the move for this purpose. Always watch out for Hidden Power Fire on Substitute Serperior and Protean Greninja after its ability has been revealed. Ferrothorn's entry hazard-setting proficiency is appreciated by every archetype from offense to semi-stall. Starting with good teammates on balanced teams, Clefable is an excellent one, able to set Stealth Rock, check Fighting-types like Mega Lopunny and Hawlucha, and disrupt opposing defensive pieces with Knock Off or Thunder Wave, and thanks to Magic Guard, it's extremely comfortable playing with the maximum amount of entry hazards on both sides. Heatran is another Stealth Rock-setting option that works in tandem with Ferrothorn to handle Psychic- and Fairy-types, pressure Defoggers with status and attacks, and even capitalize on its Spikes with Roar. Mega Latias is another great partner, using its Speed and bulk to check attackers like Kartana and Garchomp, ignoring Spikes with Levitate, and acting as either a sweeper with Calm Mind or a support with Roar. Swords Dance Gliscor is a great potential wincon that benefits from Spikes, additionally supporting the team by checking Heatran, absorbing status, and blocking Volt Switch. Choice Scarf Landorus-T is another option for a Ground-type that solidifies the matchup against Mega Alakazam by acting as a solid revenge killer, as well as helping against various physical threats like Mega Charizard X, Excadrill, and Mega Medicham. Toxapex is a great check to Fire-types, absorbs Toxic Spikes and sets its own, and can prevent foes' setup with Toxic and Haze. Bulky Psychic-types like Slowbro and Cresselia are an excellent safety net against Fighting-types like Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny, and they even double up with Ferrothorn to more effectively handle Mega Swampert and Tapu Lele, respectively. Chansey is an incredibly solid defensive Stealth Rock setter that can support Ferrothorn by checking Mega Alakazam, Mega Charizard Y, and Volcarona. On more offensively inclined teams, Ferrothorn fits like a glove alongside Tapu Fini, which can pressure opposing defensive pieces with Taunt and Nature's Madness, threaten Heatran with Surf, and check Water- and Fighting-types. Mega Diancie is a great offensive Stealth Rock user that improves the matchup against stall, can spread heavy damage, and even checks Volcarona in a pinch. Mega Tyranitar is an excellent progress maker that, alongside potentially setting Stealth Rock, acts as a solid check to Dark- and Fire-types like Choice-locked Greninja, Weavile, Heatran, and Victini. Chople Berry can be used on physically defensive Gyro Ball variants on more offensive teams, giving Ferrothorn the option to surprise Mega Alakazam, Calm Mind Tapu Lele, Mega Lopunny, and, while at full HP, even Mega Medicham. However, this leaves Ferrothorn with no longevity outside of a potential inconsistent Leech Seed. Rocky Helmet is an option with similar downsides that excels against contact users like Mega Medicham and Kartana, compounding with entry hazards to whittle them down. Hidden Power Fire can be used as a desperate measure to patch up a team's matchup against Kartana; with 16 Special Attack EVs, it will always KO Kartana. Additionally, in conjunction with Leech Seed, it can be used to exert pressure on Mega Scizor using Roost in a tough late-game scenario. Worry Seed can be used to put a stop to the likes of Gliscor, as well as Calm Mind Clefable and Reuniclus if Ferrothorn is supported by teammates with Toxic.
Ferrothorn (SS competitive strategy): Ferrothorn is a valuable defensive piece for a variety of offensive and defensive teams. While Leech Seed is its main recovery move, giving it issues with longevity, it's still a fantastic check to physical attackers such as Weavile, Melmetal, and Tyranitar. It also has good enough special bulk to take hits from Pokemon such as Tapu Koko and Tapu Lele. Its fantastic typing with many valuable resistances helps it check both physical and special attackers. One of its most valuable attributes, however, is that it is a solid Spikes setter, which is a fantastic means to support the rest of its team. Ferrothorn is one of the few Pokemon that learns Spikes in the metagame and can support its team immensely with them. Stealth Rock can be run if the team lacks another entry hazard setter, but the opportunity cost of not having Spikes is very high. Multiple layers of Spikes can quickly wear down walls like Tapu Fini, Melmetal, and Heatran. Leech Seed is Ferrothorn's only viable recovery move and can provide valuable chip damage on switch-ins like Heatran for its teammates, force switches to stop its HP drain, and heal allies as they come in. The remaining moveslots are heavily team-dependent. Power Whip is often Ferrothorn's strongest attack and particularly eliminates Water-types like Tapu Fini and Rotom-W, while Body Press allows it to hit Steel-types such as opposing Ferrothorn, Heatran, Melmetal, and Kartana. Importantly, Body Press chunks Heatran as it comes in, which can be huge for many of Ferrothorn's common teammates. Gyro Ball is its best option versus Fairy-types like Tapu Lele while also dealing huge damage to speedy threats such as Dragapult and Tornadus-T. Both it and Body Press notably OHKO Weavile. Knock Off allows Ferrothorn to remove the omnipresent Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Zapdos and Tornadus-T and Leftovers from Ferrothorn, Melmetal, and Clefable. It can also punish Dragapult and Blacephalon for switching in. Alternatively, Thunder Wave can slow down Pokemon such as Dragapult and Tornadus-T on the switch, enabling Ferrothorn's teammates to take advantage of them. It can also be used against more defensive Pokemon like Clefable and Melmetal to allow Ferrothorn or its teammates to fish for a devastating full paralysis. Iron Barbs allows Ferrothorn to punish physical attackers such as Weavile and Urshifu-R that make contact with it. Leftovers offers more recovery to Ferrothorn for prolonged games, while Rocky Helmet doubles up with Iron Barbs to make anything that makes contact with Ferrothorn regret it. An Impish nature maximizes Ferrothorn's Defense, but a Relaxed nature and 0 Speed IVs are correct if running Gyro Ball to maximize damage. The spread maximizes Ferrothorn's physical bulk, although it is very customizable if a particular benchmark is desired. Pokemon such as Tapu Lele, Weavile, and Urshifu-R that struggle to break grounded walls lacking Heavy-Duty Boots such as Heatran and Tapu Fini appreciate Ferrothorn for its ability to wear down their checks with Spikes. Tapu Lele and Urshifu-R also appreciate that Ferrothorn can use Thunder Wave to paralyze faster Pokemon like Tornadus-T and Dragapult to better enable them to wallbreak. Powerful wallbreakers like Nidoking and Tapu Lele work well with the entry hazards Ferrothorn sets, as they force switches, meaning Ferrothorn's Spikes chip down the opposing team, including their checks. Knock Off users such as Clefable and Weavile also support Ferrothorn well by removing Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon such as Slowbro and Blissey. Toxapex and other Water-types like Gastrodon and Slowbro are fantastic teammates defensively, covering Ferrothorn's weaknesses to Fire- and Fighting-types such as Volcanion and Urshifu-R. Ground-types like Hippowdon, Garchomp, and Gastrodon cover Ferrothorn's main enemy in Heatran, while Ferrothorn effectively deals with one of their biggest concerns in Weavile. Choice Band is occasionally seen to take advantage of Ferrothorn's high Attack stat with powerful Gyro Balls and Power Whips, especially on Trick Room teams. However, Ferrothorn's low Speed and lack of useful coverage mean it struggles to have a meaningful impact. Iron Defense can be used alongside Body Press to make Ferrothorn a late-game setup sweeper. However, this is very clunky, and even boosted Body Presses can be easily handled by Ghost-types and Pokemon like Clefable and Zapdos that resist them.
Ferrothorn (SV competitive strategy): Ferrothorn is an excellent defensive Steel-type and entry hazard setter, since its Grass typing lends it resistances to Water and Electric as well as a neutrality to Ground, allowing it to more comfortably handle Pokemon like Ogerpon-W, Mega Swampert, Tapu Koko, and Raging Bolt, which other Steel-types like Mega Scizor and Gholdengo have more trouble against; being a Steel-type also naturally improves its matchup against Melmetal, Tapu Lele, and Rillaboom. Iron Barbs lets Ferrothorn pressure foes like Urshifu-R, Mega Lopunny, Melmetal lacking Protective Pads, and U-turn users like Landorus-T, forcing them to play more carefully lest they rack up chip damage very quickly with contact moves. Leech Seed is Ferrothorn's most reliable recovery, allowing it to pressure other passive Pokemon like Toxapex and Gliscor into wasting their healing moves, deal valuable chip damage to switch-ins that have no means of healing such as Cinderace and Heatran, and gradually recover HP with each use. Knock Off allows Ferrothorn to punish Heavy-Duty Boots users like Zapdos, Toxapex, and Tornadus-T as well as Leftovers users like Landorus-T, which is extremely valuable in forcing progress by making foes more susceptible to hazards or removing their recovery. Body Press allows Ferrothorn to surprise Kingambit and Kyurem, dealing massive damage to both and avoiding getting PP stalled by Kyurem; it also lets Ferrothorn hit Heatran on the switch and damage opposing Ferrothorn instead of idling. Gyro Ball snags Fairy-types like Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant on the switch and is better neutral coverage against foes like Dragonite, although it should be run with a Relaxed nature and 0 Speed IVs. Thunder Wave is niche, providing great value against offense teams, but since it is easily blocked by Gholdengo, it is often undesirable. Spikes is used over Stealth Rock when another setter is present on the team. The Special Defense EVs allow Ferrothorn to survive Choice Specs Tapu Lele's Focus Blast from full HP. Leftovers is nigh mandatory, providing much more consistent healing than Leech Seed and taking advantage of Ferrothorn's ability to sit on the field for many turns at a time. Rocky Helmet is a viable alternative, punishing U-turn users like Landorus-T and Urshifu-R as well as Rapid Spin from Great Tusk much harder; overall, it rewards risky play compared to Leftovers’s relative safety and should therefore allow Ferrothorn to be used more aggressively. Most wallbreakers pair well with Ferrothorn, taking advantage of the entry hazards it sets to break through defensive targets, but those that switch in on Ferrothorn's counters such as Gholdengo, Zamazenta, and Mega Charizard Y are particularly good; these wallbreakers include Kingambit, Mega Charizard Y, Tapu Lele, and Mega Tyranitar; Kingambit and Mega Tyranitar can also Pursuit trap Gholdengo. Gholdengo itself is also a good teammate, as it can deny Defog and switch in more easily against Pokemon like Tapu Lele and Iron Valiant. Ferrothorn's defensive utility is also appreciated by teammates like Toxapex and Landorus-T, which struggle with Electric-types like Tapu Koko and Water- and Ice-types like Hisuian Samurott and Kyurem, all of which Ferrothorn helps check. However, Ferrothorn does have a host of issues that require some support to cover. Ferrothorn's glaring Fire weakness is not even its biggest problem, given that having teammates like Toxapex, Heatran, and Alomomola around can easily blank Fire-type moves from the likes of Mega Charizard Y and opposing Heatran. Its main problem stems from its lack of instant recovery, making it more inclined to offensively oriented teams. Having Leftovers removed by Knock Off from foes like Kingambit, Mega Tyranitar, and opposing Ferrothorn or getting burned by Scald from foes like Toxapex renders it unable to heal without Leech Seed, and Leech Seed fails against Gholdengo and common Grass-types like Ogerpon-W and opposing Ferrothorn. Therefore, Ferrothorn is best played more offensively, using its unique defensive utility, Leech Seed, and Iron Barbs to force switches and hazard chip damage, granting immediate momentum when played aggressively while also not punishing the user for playing more carefully. Teammates that can absorb Knock Off, like Mega Tyranitar, and those that can absorb Will-O-Wisp, like Heatran and Clefable, are incredibly valuable teammates. Finally, Pokemon that can cover Ferrothorn's Fighting weakness are good defensively, including the aforementioned Gholdengo as well as Zapdos, Landorus-T, and Toxapex.
Tapu Bulu (SM competitive strategy): Tapu Bulu is capable of checking prominent threats in the OU tier like Gliscor, Ash-Greninja, Tapu Koko, and Mega Alakazam thanks to its typing and well-rounded bulk. Solid recovery options in Synthesis, Horn Leech, and Grassy Terrain make Tapu Bulu incredibly hard to wear down. Grassy Surge offers vital team support by powering up Grass-type attacks, weakening Earthquake, and providing grounded Pokemon with passive recovery. Tapu Bulu's incredibly strong Grass-type moves turn it into a devastating wallbreaker capable of breaking through many Grass-resistant foes such as Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Ferrothorn, especially with strong coverage moves in Stone Edge and Superpower. However, Tapu Bulu's middling Speed tier leaves a lot to be desired, as it is outsped by threatening Pokemon like Heatran and Hoopa-U. Furthermore, the popularity of Steel-types that aren't weak to Superpower such as Celesteela and Mega Scizor as well as defensive Grass-types like Tangrowth and Mega Venusaur hurt Tapu Bulu's offensive capabilities. Wood Hammer and Horn Leech provide two very different roles for Tapu Bulu. The former packs a massive punch at the cost of some recoil damage that's often somewhat mitigated by Grassy Terrain, whereas the latter is used when Tapu Bulu is low on HP to get some health back and still does some respectable damage on even Pokemon resistant to it like Tornadus-T and Mega Mawile. Superpower is instrumental as Tapu Bulu's main weapon against Steel-types. It deals massive damage to the likes of Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Kartana and hits Celesteela and Jirachi for slightly less damage than Wood Hammer, without taking recoil. Stone Edge is preferred in the last slot to hit Pokemon doubly resistant to Grass-type moves like Volcarona and both Mega Charizard formes on the switch while hitting Tornadus-T without recoil and still acting as Tapu Bulu's best bet against Zapdos. Megahorn is an option that targets the ever common Mega Latias, Tangrowth, and Mega Latios while still hitting Amoonguss and Mega Venusaur hard enough. Zen Headbutt is also an option for Amoonguss, Mega Venusaur, and Mega Heracross, but missing out on Tangrowth makes Megahorn far superior. Choice Band bestows Tapu Bulu with even more power behind its moves, which lets it blow past switch-ins such as Tornadus-T and Magearna. The HP investment allows Tapu Bulu to always avoid a 2HKO from Ash-Greninja prior to transformation after Stealth Rock. Meanwhile, the Speed investment allows Tapu Bulu to get the jump on the likes of Tyranitar and Crawdaunt. The remainder of EVs are pooled into Attack. Prediction isn't usually too necessary with Choice Band Tapu Bulu. Spamming Tapu Bulu's Grass-type STAB moves is often the right step, with Horn Leech to get some HP back and Wood Hammer for a strong hit on the likes of Tornadus-T and Tangrowth. However, occasionally catching incoming Grass-resistant Pokemon is pivotal for the fate of a match. Ferrothorn, Heatran, and Kartana get a free opportunity to come in if Tapu Bulu uses either Grass-type STAB move; ergo, nailing them with Superpower is surely smart, as the former can set up entry hazards, whereas the latter two can land a powerful blow on Tapu Bulu's team. On the other hand, Volcarona and both Mega Charizard formes are pretty free to switch into Horn Leech or Wood Hammer, so catching them with a Stone Edge doesn't make Tapu Bulu setup bait. Try to keep up momentum with double switches to not let the likes of Mega Heracross and Mega Mawile in for free. Lastly, Tapu Bulu can pivot into offensive Pokemon whose STAB combo it walls, such as Ash-Greninja, Mega Swampert, and Kommo-o. It can also switch in on predicted resisted hits, like Tapu Lele's Focus Blast and Magnezone's Thunderbolt, for example. However, Tapu Bulu should be mindful of Hydro Pump rolls from Ash-Greninja after more than a layer of Spikes, Ice Punch from Mega Swampert, and Poison Jab from Kommo-o. As a rule of thumb, letting Tapu Bulu get worn down isn't the best of ideas in most matches, but trading might be useful in some situations. Magnezone is a stellar teammate, as it rids the opposing team of troublesome Pokemon such as Kartana, Celesteela, and Mega Scizor. Another outstanding teammate is Kartana, especially Choice Scarf Kartana, as it immensely appreciates Grassy Terrain increasing the power of its Leaf Blade, allowing Choice Scarf variants to have an easier time sweeping. Choice Band and Z-Move Kartana could potentially work, but they do have quite some overlap with Tapu Bulu itself as a Grass-type wallbreaker. Ash-Greninja is a threat that every team needs to cover, but without investment in Special Defense, Tapu Bulu is far from a reliable check, so another check such as Assault Vest Magearna, Toxapex, or Tapu Fini is strongly recommended. Entry hazards really help Tapu Bulu wallbreak by chipping at would-be switch-ins. Stealth Rock setters such as Garchomp, Heatran, and Gliscor are formidable teammates, and Spikes from Ash-Greninja is very welcomed too. Swords Dance boosts Tapu Bulu's Attack by two stages, allowing it to break past passive Pokemon such as Clefable and Reuniclus. Bulk Up can be run to take on Pokemon such as Mega Mawile and Celesteela safer. Horn Leech is the STAB attack of choice, having a respectable damage output under Grassy Terrain and providing Tapu Bulu with an additional means of recovery. Superpower has good offensive coverage alongside Horn Leech and allows Tapu Bulu to break past Steel-types such as Heatran and Ferrothorn. Protect allows Tapu Bulu to gain additional recovery to effectively deal with Mega Alakazam, and to scout moves from Choice item users like Greninja, Weavile, and Kartana. Synthesis lets Tapu Bulu take advantage of its bulk and restore its HP against Pokemon it forces out, such as Landorus-T and Clefable. Wood Hammer can be used alongside Grassium Z if a stronger attack is wanted; however, this leaves Tapu Bulu without a reliable form of recovery. Stone Edge is useful for hitting Flying- and Fire-types like Tornadus-T and Volcarona harder; however, it has little utility outside of that. 248 HP EVs and 252 Special Defense EVs coupled with a Careful nature allow Tapu Bulu to survive strong super effective hits such as Heatran's Magma Storm and Tornadus-T's Hurricane from full health after Stealth Rock damage. Leftovers provides passive recovery and keeps Tapu Bulu healthy alongside Grassy Terrain. Grassium Z can also be used without Wood Hammer to OHKO defensive Pokemon like Clefable, Gliscor, and Reuniclus after a Swords Dance. If Tapu Bulu's team is weak to Adamant Crawdaunt, 96 Speed EVs can be run on Tapu Bulu to outspeed it. Alternatively, if maximum offensive firepower is desired, a spread consisting of 252 Attack EVs and 252 Speed EVs with an Adamant nature can be utilized, but it significantly cuts down on Tapu Bulu's bulk and utility and makes it harder to set up. Use Tapu Bulu's defensive typing to pivot into dangerous attackers that it can generally check, such as Ash-Greninja, Tapu Koko, and Garchomp. Tapu Bulu forces many switches when it comes in against Pokemon it beats one-on-one, such as Clefable, Choice Scarf and defensive Landorus-T, and Ash-Greninja. Take advantage of these opportunities to set up a Swords Dance or recover Tapu Bulu's health with Synthesis. If the opponent has a bulky Steel-type that doesn't mind Grass- or Fighting-type moves, such as Mega Scizor or Celesteela, recovering Tapu Bulu's health or double switching accordingly is recommended to keep momentum, as Tapu Bulu is hard walled by these Pokemon. Don't hesitate to take a hit from Heatran and Tornadus-T if it means removing them from the game, as Tapu Bulu can stomach a hit from them and recover its HP later on in the game. Water-types, such as Gastrodon and Toxapex, can handle problematic Fire-types like Heatran and Volcarona. Toxapex deserves a special mention because it can reliably handle Mega Scizor and poison Flying-types like Tornadus-T and Zapdos. In return, Grassy Terrain weakens Earthquake for Toxapex. Heatran is a phenomenal teammate for Tapu Bulu due to their perfect defensive type synergy. Grassy Terrain also weakens Earthquake for Heatran and Tapu Bulu absorbs Water-type attacks from the likes of Ash-Greninja, Mega Swampert, and Tapu Fini rather easily; however, it should be wary of being burned by Scald. Tyranitar also benefits from Grassy Terrain and can Pursuit trap Mega Latios and Mega Latias, which can be problematic for Tapu Bulu due to their versatile movepools and defensive profile. Kartana forms a powerful Grass-type spam core with Tapu Bulu, hitting hard under Grassy Terrain with Leaf Blade due to its huge base Attack. Swords Dance turns Tapu Bulu into a frightening wallbreaker, allowing it to beat Pokemon like Celesteela, Magearna, and Tangrowth. Although Horn Leech is held back by its low Base Power, it provides Tapu Bulu with vital recovery. Superpower provides Tapu Bulu with coverage for Steel-types like Heatran, Kartana, and Ferrothorn. Stone Edge hits Flying-types such as Tornadus-T and Zapdos, as well as Fire-types like Volcarona and Mega Charizard X. Wood Hammer is an option over Stone Edge that, together with Grassium Z, gives Tapu Bulu an extremely powerful nuke capable of KOing even Grass-resistant Pokemon such as Mega Latias, Magearna, and Assault Vest Tangrowth. The given HP and Special Defense investment allows Tapu Bulu to avoid being 2HKOed by Hydro Pump from Choice Specs Ash-Greninja. 96 Speed EVs enable Tapu Bulu to outspeed Crawdaunt and uninvested Rotom-W, while the rest of the EVs are pooled into Attack alongside an Adamant nature. This in combination with Fightinium Z notably allows Tapu Bulu to OHKO Steel-types such as Magearna, Celesteela, Mega Scizor, and Mega Mawile at +2 with All-Out Pummeling. Rockium Z is an alternative option that allows Tapu Bulu to defeat bulky Grass-resistant Pokemon such as Mega Latias and Zapdos, while still targetting Celesteela. It also helps with bulky Tornadus-T variants. Grassium Z is an option that should be run with Wood Hammer, granting Tapu Bulu a very strong move capable of KOing Pokemon such as Magearna and Tangrowth at +2. However, it doesn't help Tapu Bulu with beating Celesteela. You should attempt to bring Tapu Bulu in on Pokemon that it can force out, such as Ash-Greninja, Tapu Fini, and Garchomp. Be wary of Tapu Bulu's health, though, as it can quickly be worn down due to its lack of reliable recovery, especially if running Wood Hammer. Once you have brought Tapu Bulu into play, you should attempt to set up with Swords Dance, as opponents will often attempt to check Tapu Bulu with Steel-types, which it can break past at +2. However, it is worth considering using Superpower, Stone Edge, or Continental Crush instead of setting up with Swords Dance if the opponent has a Pokemon like Heatran, Kartana, Tornadus-T, or Volcarona. Pokemon that can struggle to deal with Steel-types, such as Mega Latias, appreciate Tapu Bulu's ability to lure them and take them out. Tapu Bulu struggles to take on Pokemon such as Mega Latias and Mega Latios, and even Tornadus-T can be annoying at times despite Stone Edge, so it's a good idea to pair Tapu Bulu with a Pursuit trapper such as Tyranitar or Weavile. Because of its lack of reliable recovery, Tapu Bulu can struggle to consistently check Ash-Greninja. As a result, it's very important to use another, more consistent check, such as Toxapex, Tapu Fini, or Kommo-o. Wood Hammer is Tapu Bulu's strongest STAB attack; it does a lot more damage to Clefable and Landorus-T than Horn Leech, as well as OHKO Mega Alakazam and Tapu Lele. Superpower allows Tapu Bulu to hit Grass-type switch-ins like Heatran, Kartana, and Magnezone. Stone Edge lets Tapu Bulu catch switch-ins such as Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Volcarona. Megahorn is an alternative to nail switch-ins such as Mega Latias, Tangrowth, and Serperior. A Jolly nature allows Tapu Bulu to outspeed Greninja, Weavile, Tapu Koko, and Mega Lopunny. It can make for a surprise Choice Scarf user, so use this to your advantage. Be careful with Grassy Terrain's healing mechanics giving away that Tapu Bulu is faster than opposing Pokemon. Grassy Terrain's useful role compression is backed up by Tapu Bulu's adequate defensive typing and bulk, which let it take some hits, such as Ash-Greninja's Hydro Pump, but not too well. Because this is a more offensively oriented set, Tapu Bulu should not be relied upon as a switch-in to potent attackers like Ash-Greninja, Mega Swampert, and Mega Alakazam. Do not let Tapu Bulu get freely burned or paralyzed, as these status conditions will heavily hamper Tapu Bulu in its role as a revenge killer. Choice Scarf Tapu Bulu can surprise offensive threats that otherwise would be able to KO it with ease such as Weavile and Tornadus-T. Pokemon such as Mega Medicham that can take advantage of offensive threats being eliminated appreciate this. Tapu Bulu's Grassy Terrain can provide some defensive utility to teammates. Heatran and Magnezone support Tapu Bulu by taking care of Steel-types, while Tapu Bulu returns them the favor via Grassy Terrain, softening blows from Earthquake and restoring their health. Grassy Terrain can also be used to boost its teammate's Grass-type attacks such as Heatran's Bloom Doom and Kartana's Leaf Blade. An additional and more reliable check to Ash-Greninja is needed, as with entry hazards and chip damage, Tapu Bulu will lose the ability to take hits from it over time. Tapu Bulu could utilize Leech Seed on its specially defensive set to wear down Celesteela; however, it often prefers more consistent recovery like Synthesis.
Tapu Bulu (SS competitive strategy): Tapu Bulu is a decent wallbreaker that provides defensive utility to its team with passive recovery through its Grassy Surge. Tapu Bulu has a great movepool with coverage options like Close Combat, Zen Headbutt, and Stone Edge, which break through potential checks such as Celesteela, Amoonguss, and Moltres. Furthermore, its decent defensive typing, speed, and ability in Grassy Terrain allows it to distinguish itself from other bulky Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tangrowth by being a more reliable check to Keldeo and Azumarill as well as enable threats like SubToxic Aegislash, though it does have to be wary of the former crippling it with a Scald burn and hitting it with Choice Specs-boosted Air Slash or Icy Wind. While Tapu Bulu's typing has many useful resistances, it comes at the cost of having a lot of weaknesses to common attacking types like Fire, Ice, and Poison, meaning it struggles against staples like Entei, Mamoswine, Nidoking, and even Kommo-o due to its tendency to run Poison Jab. The tier has an abundance of defensive checks to Tapu Bulu, such as Salamence, Amoonguss, and Aegislash, which makes it difficult for Tapu Bulu to make much progress as a wallbreaker, especially when multiple of these checks are naturally found on the same team. Despite its positive traits compared to Amoonguss and Tangrowth, they still outclass it as a defensive Grass-type due to their access to Regenerator and less vulnerable typing. Furthermore, Tapu Bulu's Grassy Terrain also heals up the opponent's Pokemon as well, sometimes making it a hindrance to teams it is on. Horn Leech is the preferred STAB option thanks to its recovery and respectable damage. Stone Edge is crucial coverage to break past Pokemon like Chandelure, Moltres, and Salamence. Close Combat lets Tapu Bulu break through Cobalion and hit other Steel-types like Jirachi and Celesteela harder; however, dropping Stone Edge leaves it unable to punish the common Flying-types, particularly Moltres, which can fish for a burn with Flame Body. Zen Headbutt breaks through Amoonguss, Kommo-o, and Buzzwole. Megahorn can help against Tangrowth; however, its coverage isn't very useful otherwise. Darkest Lariat can be used to hit Pokemon like Jirachi, Aegislash, and Chandelure harder. Life Orb with an Adamant nature gives +2 Tapu Bulu the extra power needed to KO foes like Tangrowth and Celesteela. A Jolly nature can be used to outspeed Buzzwole and Timid Volcanion, though Adamant's power is generally valued more. Tapu Bulu fits best on offense and balance teams that appreciate its combination of utility and wallbreaking potential. Rotom-W can lure in foes like Seismitoad, giving Tapu Bulu free opportunities to use Swords Dance. Rotom-W can also remove foes like Moltres and wear down Kommo-o and Amoonguss into KO range of Tapu Bulu's attacks. Other wallbreakers like Conkeldurr and Nidoking can help break through defensive cores that Tapu Bulu struggles with. Keldeo appreciates Tapu Bulu being able to lure in and remove bulky Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tangrowth. Tentacruel is appreciated as another Water-resistant Pokemon, as Tapu Bulu doesn't want to risk a burn from Keldeo's Scald, for example. Although Tapu Bulu is a Fairy-type, it struggles to consistently check a majority of Dragon-types, such as Salamence and Kommo-o, due to its lack of a good Fairy-type attack and its weakness to their common coverage. For this reason, partners like Celesteela and Aegislash are imperative. Horn Leech allows Tapu Bulu to gain recovery while still having a strong move to hit Primarina, Crawdaunt, and Lycanroc-D. Dazzling Gleam is able to sometimes OHKO Kommo-o and deals good damage to Zarude and Buzzwole. Toxic punishes switch-ins such as Rotom-H and Salamence. Synthesis is reliable recovery, but it should only be used sparingly due to its low PP. Heavy-Duty Boots is the preferred item, but Rocky Helmet can be used to punish contact moves from Zarude, Krookodile, and Gyarados. The EV spread is to outspeed Choice Specs Primarina while maximizing physical bulk to better check Buzzwole and Lycanroc-D. Defensive Tapu Bulu is mainly found on stall and balance teams, as they appreciate it bringing Grassy Terrain for extra recovery. Calm Mind Galarian Slowbro and SubToxic Aegislash are great partners, as they can deal with Amoonguss and Togekiss, respectively. In return, Tapu Bulu is able to handle Krookodile, Rhyperior, Zarude, and Crawdaunt for these Pokemon. Chansey is able to check non-Dragon Dance Salamence and other special attackers such as Nidoking and Nihilego; Tapu Bulu beats Keldeo, one of the few special attackers that can break through Chansey. Umbreon provides Wish support so that Tapu Bulu does not have to use Synthesis often while also checking Salamence and Aegislash. Fire-types such as Entei and Moltres help deal with Jirachi, Amoonguss, and Aegislash, which wall it. Choice Band is an option that gives Tapu Bulu even more power; however, it requires a lot more prediction to break through its checks like Amoonguss, and Wood Hammer recoil can wear it down quickly. A Choice Scarf set can be used to revenge kill foes like Thundurus and Noivern; however, it primarily relies on surprise factor to do so. A specially defensive Tapu Bulu set with Horn Leech / Darkest Lariat / Synthesis and either Bulk Up or Swords Dance can be used as a better switch-in to foes like Keldeo and Thundurus-T. However, this set is a huge momentum drain against foes like Amoonguss, Kommo-o, and Celesteela. An Assault Vest set improves its matchup against the aforementioned foes while retaining an offensive presence; however, it can be easily overwhelmed by special attackers such as Primarina.
Tapu Bulu (SV competitive strategy): Tapu Bulu's strong offenses, access to Swords Dance, and Grassy Terrain-boosted STAB attacks make it a potent physical wallbreaker, being able to tear through prominent Ground- and Water-types in the tier such as Hippowdon, Slowbro, and Gastrodon. On top of this, Tapu Bulu's solid defensive profile also allows it to serve as an effective check to certain offensive threats such as Thundurus, Zeraora, and Keldeo, while Grassy Surge allows it to support its team with additional passive recovery, as well as lessening the damage of Earthquake, a common attacking move seen on Pokemon such as Excadrill and Mega Aerodactyl. However, Tapu Bulu's common weaknesses to attacking types such as Fire, Flying, and Steel, mediocre Speed tier, and heavy reliance on prediction to get past certain walls such as Mega Venusaur and Celesteela tend to limit its consistency in the long run. In addition, Grassy Terrain, while beneficial, can also backfire due to it healing opposing grounded Pokemon as well. Stone Edge gives Tapu Bulu a way to hit Fire- and Flying-types such as Victini and Thundurus; when powered up by Rockium Z, it turns into a perfectly accurate move that also deals enormous damage to natural targets such as Celesteela, Amoonguss, and Mega Latias at +2, letting it break through them. High Horsepower gives Tapu Bulu a way to hit Steel-types such as Aegislash, Excadrill, and Bisharp super effectively. The given EV spread maximizes Tapu Bulu's bulk, whilst allowing it to outspeed Adamant Tyranitar and Modest Celesteela. Alternatively, a spread of 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe can be used to maximize Tapu Bulu's offensive potential, most notably ensuring a guaranteed OHKO on maximum HP Aegislash with High Horsepower and defensive Celesteela and Amoonguss with Contential Crush at +2. By virtue of its defensive qualities, Tapu Bulu is best suited to defensive teams which can capitalize on its long-term prowess. Pokemon such as Aegislash, Excadrill, and Slowking each appreciate the residual effects brought on by Grassy Terrain, which can allow them to play more aggressively; in return, these Pokemon can help pivot into several of Tapu Bulu's answers, such as Celesteela and Mega Venusaur, while Slowking also helps check Fire-types such as Victini. Additionally, other defensive Pokemon such as Slowbro, Clefable, and Hippowdon can also benefit from Grassy Surge while supporting Tapu Bulu's team against offensive threats such as Iron Moth, in addition to providing entry hazards and pivoting support. However, it should be noted that Hippowdon will often need to run alternative Ground-type STAB options to remain effective under Grassy Terrain. Faster teammates such as Choice Scarf Hydreigon, Zeraora, and Choice Scarf Mienshao can assist in revenge killing Tapu Bulu’s checks, and they benefit from Tapu Bulu's ability to help them overwhelm pivots such as Celesteela, Tangrowth, and Amoonguss.
Raging Bolt (SV competitive strategy): Calm Mind Raging Bolt is one of the metagame's top setup sweepers and wallbreakers. Its natural bulk and unique typing not only allows it to check common offensive threats like Ogerpon-W and Cinderace, but also to gain multiple entry points and setup opportunities as well. On top of a potent STAB combination that hits most of the metagame at least neutrally, its signature move Thunderclap prevents Raging Bolt's sweep from being cut short by faster threats and opposing priority users like Enamorus, Walking Wake, and Kingambit and lets it act as a revenge killer, too. Dragon Pulse is preferred for its consistent damage output, but Draco Meteor can be used to propel Raging Bolt's niche as a wallbreaker further, letting it overwhelm checks like Ting-Lu and Clodsire much more easily and netting benchmarks such as OHKOing defensive Landorus-T and Dragonite through Multiscale, all after a Calm Mind. A reliable Electric-type STAB move lets Raging Bolt prevent foes like Primarina, Gholdengo, and Calm Mind Enamorus from setting up freely and makes it less vulnerable to Encore users like Iron Valiant and Hisuian Samurott. Thunderbolt's consistency is preferred in this regard, but other options can be used as well. Discharge allows Raging Bolt to potentially cripple specially defensive walls like Galarian Slowking and slow down faster threats like Gholdengo, Darkrai, and Zamazenta, which helps to reduce its reliance on Thunderclap. Exclusively on rain teams, the stronger option in Thunder can also be used instead for similar reasons. Raging Bolt can lean towards the weather further by running Weather Ball instead if used on either a sun or rain team; it allows Raging Bolt to hit Iron Treads super effectively, with rain Weather Ball pressuring Raging Bolt's other Ground-type checks like Gliscor and Landorus-T more reliably, while sun Weather Ball cleanly OHKOes even bulky Kingambit and Gholdengo unboosted, all at the expense of the ability to immediately threaten Calm Mind Primarina. Alternatively, Taunt can be used to let Raging Bolt overwhelm walls like Blissey and Toxic Galarian Slowking. Booster Energy provides Raging Bolt with a damage boost, letting it reach feats such as OHKOing Iron Valiant with Thunderclap after a layer of Spikes and specially defensive Gliscor with +1 Draco Meteor, as well as having significant rolls to 2HKO Clodsire with Draco Meteor. Leftovers gives it more longevity to set up more easily and further take advantage of its defensive profile. Air Balloon is another option to prevent revenge killing attempts from its Ground-type checks like Great Tusk, Landorus-T, and Ting-Lu. Tera Fairy gives Raging Bolt an immunity to Dragon-type attacks from foes like Dragapult and opposing Raging Bolt that don't fear its Thunderclap; it is also generally a good neutral typing against foes like Weavile and Iron Valiant. Tera Bug gives a Ground resistance without being weak to Kyurem and opposing Raging Bolt while also providing a Fighting resistance against Zamazenta. Tera Ghost is also an option to give offensive teams an emergency check to IronPress Zamazenta and, if used with Taunt, beat Blissey one-on-one. Tera Flying can be used for an outright immunity to Ground, letting it flip its matchup against Great Tusk and Landorus-T; this can be combined with Taunt to beat bulky Ground-type checks like Gliscor, Clodsire, and Ting-Lu. An EV spread of 64 HP / 28 Def / 252 SpA / 164 Spe is an alternative option; it runs enough Speed to get the jump on Gliscor, with the extra bulk letting Raging Bolt survive Speed Booster Energy Great Tusk's Headlong Rush from full, though this significantly worsens its matchup against opposing Raging Bolt. Raging Bolt fits on a variety of offensive teams, ranging from hyper offense to weather-based archetypes in sun and rain. It pairs well with other strong special attackers like Gholdengo, Iron Moth, and Darkrai; on top of keeping up the pressure against the opposition, they can work with Raging Bolt to wear down and overwhelm shared checks like Ting-Lu, Clodsire, Galarian Slowking, and Blissey. Physical setup sweepers like Kingambit, Ogerpon-W, Great Tusk, Dragonite, and Zamazenta are similarly important, as they can threaten out the aforementioned special walls and force damage against Landorus-T and opposing Great Tusk; some of these physical attackers can even switch into the Ground-types, and Raging Bolt uses their checks like Skarmory, Alomomola, and Dondozo as entry points and setup opportunities. Rillaboom also deserves a special mention; on top of providing Grassy Terrain to increase Raging Bolt's longevity and let it stomach Earthquake from foes like Landorus-T and Ting-Lu, Rillaboom can also bring Raging Bolt in safely via U-turn against switch-ins like Moltres, Corviknight, and Zapdos for setup opportunities. Entry hazard setters like Deoxys-S, Hisuian Samurott, Landorus-T, and Glimmora are highly appreciated, as hazards help put foes and especially its checks into KO range, with Landorus-T also capable of switching into Great Tusk, Iron Treads, and opposing Landorus-T that threaten Raging Bolt out; in return, Raging Bolt can take advantage of and pressure common hazard removal Pokemon like Corviknight and Cinderace to maintain said hazards. Raging Bolt can benefit from Drought users like Torkoal and Ninetales; the sun allows Raging Bolt to freely forgo Booster Energy and gives it the option to run Weather Ball. Raging Bolt also synergizes well with other sun wallbreakers; Walking Wake can exploit Ground-types like Ting-Lu, Iron Treads, and Gliscor while assisting Raging Bolt in pressuring Galarian Slowking and Blissey. This is especially strong because going for Tera Water to deal with Walking Wake makes them vulnerable to Raging Bolt. Great Tusk can complement Raging Bolt's breaking power by dealing with its special walls and overwhelming shared checks like Landorus-T and Great Tusk, with Raging Bolt handling the likes of Skarmory, Alomomola, and Tera Water Gliscor in return. Raging Bolt can also be used on rain teams, benefiting from Pelipper's Drizzle to run options like Weather Ball and Thunder. It forms a great core with Barraskewda, as Barraskewda can position Raging Bolt against its bulky Water-type checks like Alomomola and Tera Water Garganacl via Flip Turn; in return, Barraskewda alongside other rain wallbreakers like Overqwil can pressure and overwhelm Ground-types like Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Iron Treads for Raging Bolt. Defensively, Raging Bolt can check Rillaboom and Ogerpon-W, which are otherwise problematic for rain teams, while Pelipper is capable of switching into Ground-types like Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Iron Treads that force Raging Bolt out. Though more niche, Raging Bolt can also fit on other hyper offense structures. Dual screens setters like Deoxys-S, Alolan Ninetales, and Grimmsnarl provide Raging Bolt with an easier time setting up against even super effective hits and prevent it from being revenge killed by foes like Weavile, Landorus-T, and Dragonite. Sticky Web from Ribombee can slow down would-be revenge killers like Great Tusk, minimizing the risk of Thunderclap mindgames against foes like Encore Iron Valiant and Substitute Iron Moth. With Choice Specs, Raging Bolt becomes a terrifying wallbreaker that is capable of chunking even bulkier opposing Pokemon such as Ting-Lu, Gliscor, and Garganacl to blow holes in the opponent's team. The additional power also enables Raging Bolt to upgrade its pivoting and revenge killing capabilities to further pressure its foes. Draco Meteor is the Dragon-type STAB move of choice, making progress on even the most specially bulky Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking, Clodsire, and Ting-Lu. Thunderclap is used as powerful priority to revenge kill or force out faster threats such as Ogerpon-W, Iron Valiant, and Enamorus, and it also helps Raging Bolt beat slower priority users such as Kingambit and Scizor. Volt Switch is used to help Raging Bolt maintain momentum for the team, racking up chip damage on walls Raging Bolt cannot 2HKO like Blissey and Assault Vest Galarian Slowking. Many Ground-types, such as Landorus-T and Great Tusk, heavily fear Draco Meteor, so Raging Bolt can often use Volt Switch freely early-game without worrying too much about an immunity stifling it. Raging Bolt wants to run as much Speed investment as possible without compromising on power in order to Speed tie or outspeed opposing Raging Bolt and is especially important when factoring in Thunderclap. However, if this is not a major concern, an EV spread of 200 HP / 252 SpA / 56 Spe is just enough to outpace Adamant Kingambit while increasing bulk to take resisted hits such as Ogerpon-W's Ivy Cudgel and Rillaboom's Grassy Glide better. Another alternative spread is 92 HP / 252 SpA / 164 Spe to outspeed uninvested Gliscor, giving Raging Bolt a better matchup into one of the few Ground-types that might dare to switch in while still having the extra bulk. Fairy is the predominant Tera type of choice for this set, as it is a solid defensive typing that is immune to fearsome incoming Dragon-type attacks such as Dragapult's Dragon Darts while also resisting Kingambit's Sucker Punch and Zamazenta's Body Press. However, Tera Dragon can be used to further intensify the power of Draco Meteor, while, like Tera Fairy, also removing the weakness to incoming Ground-type attacks such as Great Tusk's Headlong Rush and Dragonite's Earthquake. Balanced and bulky offensive teams most appreciate the hole-punching power of Choice Specs Raging Bolt. Pokemon with pivoting moves such as Corviknight, Galarian Slowking, and Pecharunt make great teammates for this set, as they help bring in Raging Bolt to start breaking apart the opponent's core. This set also often risks losing momentum, as Raging Bolt gets locked into a move against a Pokemon immune to it or becomes non-threatening due to Special Attack drops from Draco Meteor, so it appreciates the defensive backbone these Pokemon can provide. Corviknight is a standout, as it is immune to Ground-type attacks from the likes of Landorus-T and Great Tusk that check Raging Bolt, while Raging Bolt threatens Moltres and Zapdos that can annoy Corviknight. This Raging Bolt set can also heavily pressure specially defensive Pokemon on the opposing team such as Ting-Lu and Galarian Slowking, chunking them and greatly limiting their longevity. Special attackers such as Gholdengo, Iron Moth, Darkrai, and Enamorus can be paired with Raging Bolt to overwhelm and KO specially defensive Pokemon via their combined assaults. Teammates such as Ting-Lu, Garganacl, and Gliscor can enable Raging Bolt by setting entry hazards to further chip opposing Pokemon such as Ting-Lu, Ogerpon-W, and Garganacl into KO range. Ting-Lu and Garganacl also help by switching into Pokemon like Dragapult and Deoxys-S looking to revenge kill Raging Bolt. Removing hazards also greatly extends Raging Bolt's lifespan and gives opportunities to aggressively switch it in to make progress, so teammates such as Hatterene, Great Tusk, and Galarian Weezing are appreciated for that purpose. Cinderace is a particularly noteworthy teammate, as it removes hazards on Raging Bolt's side of the field, puts them on the opponent's side, and performs timely pivots to bring Raging Bolt in. All moves on this set have immunities, so with good prediction, Fairy-types and Ground-types will completely shut down this set. Protect from Pokemon such as Gliscor, Garganacl, and Alomomola will ease predictions by forcing Raging Bolt to lock into a given move, allowing for more reliable counterplay. Teammates that can take advantage of the passive turn of Protect to enter the field such as Ogerpon-W, Kyurem, and Primarina can ease these potentially troublesome matchups. These Pokemon are also excellent at handling Ground-types that may annoy Raging Bolt, and Ogerpon-W and Primarina can also run U-turn and Flip Turn, respectively, to form a pivoting core that helps Raging Bolt enter the field. In return, Raging Bolt can pressure defensive Pokemon such as Hydrapple and Toxapex for these teammates. Landorus-T can be a helpful teammate for many of the aforementioned reasons, as it handles Ground-types well, puts up Stealth Rock, pivots with U-turn, and threatens out specially defensive checks to Raging Bolt such as Galarian Slowking and Clodsire while Raging Bolt can threaten Pokemon that annoy Landorus-T such as Alomomola and Corviknight. Lastly, teammates such as Kingambit and Zamazenta can work with Raging Bolt to overwhelm shared checks such as Great Tusk and Landorus-T, as well as deter these Ground-types from switching into Raging Bolt. These Pokemon additionally threaten specially defensive Pokemon such as Blissey and Galarian Slowking while Raging Bolt can take on Dondozo, Moltres, and Corviknight. Raging Bolt acts as a powerful offensive pivot and revenge killer that can also provide defensive utility thanks to its solid natural bulk and good typing. Thunderclap is one of the strongest options for priority in the metagame, allowing Raging Bolt to overcome its lackluster Speed tier and act as a strong revenge killer against the likes of Ogerpon-W, Enamorus, Darkrai, Deoxys-S, and Kingambit. Volt Switch makes Raging Bolt hard to pin down, allowing it to pivot on and wear down specially defensive walls such as Galarian Slowking, Iron Crown, and Blissey as they switch in. Draco Meteor is a viable alternative to Dragon Pulse for more immediate power, hitting some benchmarks like OHKOing opposing Raging Bolt and having a chance to OHKO bulky Great Tusk in exchange for a severe Special Attack drop. Taunt is an option that allows Raging Bolt to more effectively deal with special walls by stopping recovery attempts from the likes of Blissey and Clodsire and blocking utility moves from Clefable, Ting-Lu, and Galarian Slowking. Other options include Thunderbolt for a consistent Electric-type STAB move, 2HKOing neutral targets such as Clefable after little prior chip damage, defensive Zapdos, and Gholdengo while not forcing Raging Bolt to switch out, and Weather Ball on weather teams or alongside Galarian Slowking for alternative Ice-type coverage. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Raging Bolt to hit the field multiple times without worrying about entry hazards, which is especially good on teams that rely on ignoring hazards altogether or lack any form of removal. Tera Fairy allows Raging Bolt to turn the tables on matchups like Iron Defense Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, Dragapult, Kyurem, Walking Wake, and Great Tusk as well as giving it the option to run Tera Blast in order to hit Ting-Lu and Great Tusk super effectively. Another option is Tera Flying, granting an even better matchup against the likes of Great Tusk, Iron Treads, Landorus-T, and Ting-Lu, though it gives Raging Bolt some problematic weaknesses against opposing Raging Bolt, Zapdos, Weavile, and Meowscarada. Raging Bolt fits best on balance and bulky offense teams, which appreciate its ability to pivot in and out of the field while dealing heavy damage and threatening boosted sweepers with its priority move. Raging Bolt can form great offensive cores when it's paired with other offensive pivots like Ogerpon, which can apply pressure with U-turn in a similar fashion to Raging Bolt's Volt Switch, punish Ground-types with its strong Grass-type STAB moves, remove items with Knock Off to accumulate entry hazard damage, and punish setup moves with Encore. Embody Aspect's Speed boost also helps Ogerpon cover for Raging Bolt's poor Speed against the likes of Great Tusk, Darkrai, and Dragapult. In return, Ogerpon appreciates Raging Bolt's help in pressuring physically defensive Pokémon such as Zapdos, Moltres, and Corviknight. Ogerpon-W is even more effective at dealing with Ground-types, trading Ogerpon's ability to hold an item and boost its Speed for a harder-to-resist STAB combination and wallbreaking power, pressuring defensive cores such as Sinistcha \+ Gliscor and Galarian Slowking + Corviknight more easily with pivoting support from Raging Bolt. Meowscarada offers a stronger U-turn and Knock Off as well as an even better Speed tier, especially with Choice Scarf variants acting as a revenge killer for faster threats such as Iron Valiant. Weavile has a strong Knock Off as well, and its Ice Shard complements Thunderclap perfectly against offensive cores, hitting threats Raging Bolt struggles with like Ogerpon and Tera Ground Dragonite. Hisuian Samurott can pivot with Flip Turn and deal with the likes of Ting-Lu, Iron Treads, Iron Crown, and Galarian Slowking while also providing Spikes with Ceaseless Edge, which, alongside its own Knock Off removing Heavy-Duty Boots from opposing Pokémon, makes it extremely effective against bulkier cores like Alomomola \+ Galarian Slowking or Ting-Lu, Toxapex \+ Gliscor or Ting-Lu, and Dondozo \+ Gliscor or Blissey. Pelipper's Drizzle can give Raging Bolt the options to run Thunder and Weather Ball, letting it hit would-be checks in Ting-Lu, Clodsire, Great Tusk, and Iron Treads with Water-type coverage. Barraskewda is a great partner on rain teams, as it's extremely hard to switch into and able to pivot with Flip Turn, and it loves Raging Bolt's ability to pressure Water-types like Alomomola, Dondozo and Primarina. Raging Bolt fits similarly on sun teams, synergizing with Torkoal and Ninetales' Drought, which activates Protosynthesis and allows it to hit the likes of Rillaboom and Iron Treads with sun-boosted Weather Ball, and with Walking Wake, which pressures Ground-types and shared checks like Galarian Slowking and Blissey. Raging Bolt also appreciates a defensive backbone to fall onto when its Volt Switch is blocked or after revenge killing a Pokemon. Flying-types like Corviknight and Gliscor check Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Ting-Lu, with the former offering hazard removal in Defog and the latter offering hazard support. Clefable's physical bulk allows it to take on Great Tusk, Ting-Lu, and Gliscor while setting up Stealth Rock; it can also cripple walls like Galarian Slowking, Clodsire, and Blissey with Knock Off and switch into Knock Off well itself. Alomomola makes a good partner thanks to its great physical bulk and longevity with Wish and Regenerator, which it can use in conjunction with Flip Turn to keep Raging Bolt healthy, and it appreciates the help in beating Ogerpon-W. Steel-types like Assault Vest Iron Crown and Tinkaton can threaten Iron Valiant and Kyurem, while Galarian Slowking can check them as well as offering a slow pivot and a powerful Future Sight. Lastly, hazard removal options like Great Tusk, Cinderace, and Iron Treads can clear the field for Choice Specs Raging Bolt.
Toxtricity (SS competitive strategy): Choice Specs Toxtricity is one of RU's strongest sources of immediate damage thanks to its Punk Rock-boosted Boomburst, which has very few consistent switch-ins. Pokemon with the typing or special bulk to take Boomburst, like Stakataka and Porygon2, are vulnerable to Toxtricity's coverage or lose momentum to Volt Switch. Though slow, Toxtricity poses a massive early-game threat to offensive teams, as staples like Noivern cannot immediately OHKO it and fear getting OHKOed in return. Its resistances let it even switch into and punish Crobat, Roserade, and Raikou once or twice, especially if they go for utility moves. Once Toxtricity has taken some damage, however, it becomes much less of a threat, as its low Speed and bulk will make it easy for many Pokemon to pick off. Its vulnerability to Stealth Rock and Spikes worsens this issue, especially in a metagame full of pivots using Heavy-Duty Boots, which incentivizes conventional offensive teams to forgo entry hazard removal. It faces competition from RU's more reliable Electric-types, such as Xurkitree, Heliolisk, and Raikou; the former can use Choice Scarf to similarly threaten offense or Heavy-Duty Boots to wallbreak like Toxtricity without fearing entry hazards, while the latter two's naturally high Speed stats lets them remain a threat to offense all game long. The other Electric-types are always faster than offensive Togekiss, which can overcome weakened Toxtricity with Air Slash flinches. Punk Rock Toxtricity's Boomburst has obscene power and coverage, OHKOing or 2HKOing most Pokemon and even 3HKOing Steelix. Overdrive is a consistent Electric-type attack that punishes Boomburst switch-ins like Stakataka and Diancie. Volt Switch lets Toxtricity bring a threatening teammate in against relatively consistent checks like Porygon2 and Registeel. Snarl catches the occasional Golurk along with OHKOing Alolan Marowak. Sludge Bomb is an alternative that can poison bulky switch-ins, 2HKOes Alolan Marowak, and OHKOes Trace Gardevoir. Toxtricity's Speed tier isn't crowded, so it can get away with a Modest nature. Running a Timid nature is advantageous against Tyrantrum, Modest Nidoqueen, and other Toxtricity, though it makes Pokemon harder to OHKO with Boomburst. Proactive teams using offensive pivots like Noivern and Crobat are best at giving Toxtricity chances to freely attack and compensating for its poor Speed. Flygon and Incineroar are U-turn users that pivot on switch-ins like Togekiss and Galarian Weezing, which healthy Toxtricity is then free to exploit. They form a VoltTurn core with Toxtricity as well, giving defensive teams a miserable time. Other Fighting-types like Heracross punish bulky Normal- and Steel-types for switching into Boomburst. Toxtricity is a very self-sufficient attacker once it's made it into the battle, so its team doesn't need to give it much specific support; just have a plan for when common threats switch in to revenge kill it. A Shift Gear set using Boomburst, Overdrive, Drain Punch, and Life Orb with maximum Special Attack and Speed investment and a Hasty nature can be a nasty surprise sweeper that beats and sets up on Porygon2. With so many other sweepers and Choice Scarf users available, including Sharpedo, Cloyster, Mimikyu, Xurkitree, and Heracross, dedicating Toxtricity to the role is usually unnecessary and a waste of its power.
Toxtricity (SV competitive strategy): Punk Rock and excellent Special Attack make Choice Specs Toxtricity a potent special wallbreaker. Boomburst is Toxtricity's strongest move and has solid neutral coverage, and it's even powerful enough to 2HKO Bisharp after Stealth Rock damage. Overdrive nails Empoleon and hits other Pokemon resistant or immune to Normal, such as Registeel, Jirachi, and Gengar. Boomburst and Overdrive hit through Substitute, which comes in handy against foes like Suicune and Raikou. Sludge Bomb hits Gardevoir for decent damage, which helps if Gardevoir has copied Punk Rock with Trace, and it's also a big hit against Wo-Chien. Snarl is an alternative that hits Golurk and Palossand super effectively, and it still 2HKOes Jirachi and Choice Specs Magnezone after Stealth Rock damage. Volt Switch helps Toxtricity keep up momentum and chip away at switch-ins like Hisuian Goodra until they're weak enough to overwhelm. Tera Normal turns Boomburst's power up to eleven, 2HKOing even Rhyperior, bulky Jirachi, and Choice Specs Hisuian Goodra. Tera Normal can also be situationally useful defensively against Mimikyu and Gengar, but it otherwise provides little defensive value. Toxtricity's amazing power makes it a good fit as a high-maintenance wallbreaker. Pivots like Galarian Zapdos, Mienshao, and Jirachi excel at positioning Toxtricity, and Toxtricity can blow past physical walls like Hippowdon, Gastrodon, and Slowbro for these Pokemon. Slow pivots like Empoleon can get Toxtricity in with a free switch. Toxtricity's own ability to keep up momentum with Volt Switch makes it a hit on pivot-heavy VoltTurn teams. Ground- and Fighting-types like Krookodile and Terrakion can tear apart Hisuian Goodra and Rhyperior for Toxtricity. Defensive Pokemon like Slowbro and Gastrodon can switch into faster, physically offensive threats like Galarian Zapdos, Krookodile, and Flygon for Toxtricity, while specially defensive Pokemon like Cyclizar and Hisuian Goodra can intercept Gengar and Basculegion-F. Entry hazards from setters like Rhyperior, Registeel, and Terrakion wear down potential checks like Umbreon and Assault Vest Cyclizar. Spikes from setters like Chesnaught, Quagsire, and Gastrodon can more effectively wear down Hisuian Goodra, Assault Vest Magnezone, and opposing Gastrodon.
Toxapex (SM competitive strategy): Toxapex is unlike its fellow contenders for the best Pokemon in the tier; what it lacks in set diversity and flashy options, it makes up with its sheer streamlined efficiency in soaking up attacks from huge threats and sinisterly tiring out the opposing team with its bag of tricks. Its defensive stats are gargantuan, and the longevity that it gets from Regenerator is absurd; babysitting threats like Ash-Greninja, Mega Charizard Y, and Volcarona is second nature to it. It's bulky enough to dare opposing pivots like Magearna and Rotom-W to tickle it with Volt Switch while it spreads status easier than hot butter. Being both the best Toxic Spikes setter and by far the most splashable Poison-type in the tier means that if you are interested in not losing to Toxic Spikes or would like to inflict them yourself, you typically have to go through Toxapex. It's very hard to justify not using this behemoth on anything south of offense. However, as many tricks as it may have, it is still just like your average starfish; it is very slow, can hardly lift an arm to deal any significant damage, and is stuck to the ground in ways that wallbreakers like Landorus-T, Mega Swampert, and Excadrill can appreciate. It isn't able to stop apex predators like Mega Alakazam, Swords Dance Gliscor, and defensive Heatran from finding easy entry on it, and there are plenty of other wallbreakers like Tapu Lele, Mega Medicham, and Kyurem-B that it needs to step aside from if they're able to get in unscathed. Lastly, although Toxapex has a plethora of useful options, it can only run four of them at once, so it can be difficult to fit everything you want on it. Scald is very beneficial for Toxapex because it lets it threaten more statuses than just poison, able to burn greedy Steel-types like Kartana, Mega Mawile, and Ferrothorn. If worsening Toxapex's ability to touch these Steel-types doesn't scare you off, then you might appreciate Knock Off as another potential option, which trades off status pressure to remove passive recovery directly, great for removing Leftovers from the likes of Heatran, Seismitoad, and Tapu Fini. Haze allows Toxapex to limit boosters like Volcarona, Reuniclus, Mega Scizor, and Kommo-o. Toxic is another quite direct self-defense mechanism, helping against many threats, including both Mega Charizard formes, non-Substitute Volcarona, Tornadus-T, and Mega Latias. Toxic Spikes are a huge draw of Toxapex, as they more or less punish offensive teams just for being too offensive to include their own Toxapex; in one turn, Toxapex can shut out grounded attackers like Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, Tapu Lele, and Tapu Koko, and the opponent better hope they get their Tapu Fini on the field before it's too late, as Toxic Spikes will activate before Misty Terrain does. Baneful Bunker is Toxapex's venomous take on Protect, useful for punishing contact attackers like Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, and U-turn Landorus-T, scouting Choice-locked foes, and racking up status damage. Recover bolsters Toxapex's longevity in direct one-on-ones and is—nearly—undroppable. 36 Defense EVs are used to ensure Toxapex avoids the 2HKO from Kartana's Leaf Blade from full health, with the rest pooled into Special Defense to help its main jobs of answering threats like Mega Charizard Y and Ash-Greninja and eating Volt Switch from Rotom-W and Magearna. Black Sludge is the most consistent option; there is little else to say other than it gives Toxapex more free turns to use its utility moves instead of healing itself. Shed Shell is an entertaining option that should always be paired with Knock Off, which allows Toxapex to have a lasting impact on Magma Storm Heatran and Whirlpool Tapu Fini while avoiding being forcefully removed by the trapping effect. Payapa Berry works great with Toxic to force a limit on Mega Medicham and Tapu Lele. Rocky Helmet feels pretty luxurious, but punishing U-turn from Landorus-T and Mega Scizor and other attacks from Choice Scarf Kartana is quite appealing. A physically defensive spread of 252 HP / 124 Def / 132 SpD with a Bold nature is another great option for Toxapex that helps against physical attackers, with the Defense investment allowing it to survive Mega Medicham's Zen Headbutt from full health, while the Special Defense investment prevents Volcarona from 2HKOing it with Hidden Power Ground. It's pretty hard to go wrong with using Toxapex. Try to get Toxic Spikes on the field as early as possible against offensive teams. The gameplan is to lock out their biggest threats with the threat of status from the get-go and put pressure on their methods of entry hazard removal to eventually be able to choke them out with passive damage. It's perfectly fine to trade health to aggressively get a layer of Toxic Spikes if the opposing team has poor removal, with Toxapex taking attacks like Landorus-T's Earthquake, Rotom-W's Volt Switch, and Kyurem-B's Fusion Bolt from full health. If it's not running Shed Shell, do not let Toxapex's Water typing fool you into thinking it has any business dealing with an unscouted Heatran or Tapu Fini; the threat of Magma Storm or Whirlpool coupled with Taunt threatens to immediately remove an unsuspecting Toxapex from the game. When it's running Shed Shell, though, scout and avoid opposing Knock Off carefully if you are facing a team with a trapper. Toxapex fits on teams ranging from bulky offense to stall but mostly prefers teams on the bulkier side where its occasional passivity isn't as out of place. Ground-types like Gliscor, Excadrill, and Seismitoad can interrupt opposing Volt Switch and all appreciate Toxapex's handling of Ash-Greninja and Mega Charizard Y. On the topic of Excadrill, sand teams in general appreciate Toxapex due to how elite it is at handling Mega Charizard Y and Water-type threats, and Mega Tyranitar specifically can check Heatran, add to Toxapex's status chip damage with sand, and threaten Choice-locked attackers like Ash-Greninja and Tapu Lele with a heavy Pursuit. Celesteela forms quite a splendid partnership with Toxapex due to its proficiency at handling opposing Psychic- and Ground-types. Magearna is another option for a Psychic-type check that helps against Kyurem-B and also holds a useful resistance to Dark; together, Ash-Greninja is handled very well, as Toxapex can scout Dark Pulse before going right to Magearna. Slowbro forms a solid core with Toxapex despite doubling up on the Water typing. It specializes in handling physical threats like Mega Swampert, Mega Charizard X, and Mega Medicham, while Toxapex deals with Mega Charizard Y, Volcarona, and Ash-Greninja and clears opposing Toxic Spikes. Both Mega Latias and Mega Latios are good teammates thanks to their great matchup against offensive Ground-types and their shared resistances with Toxapex, allowing them to back it up defensively. Skarmory and Ferrothorn can lay down Spikes to harass Steel-types, with Skarmory helping against Mega Mawile and Kartana and Ferrothorn checking Electric-types like Tapu Koko. Cresselia and Reuniclus are examples of bulky Psychic-type setup sweepers that can rely on Toxic Spikes to outlast Dark-types. Additionally, Cresselia provides a rock-solid answer to Psychic-types like Tapu Lele and Mega Medicham. Chansey covers undesirable special attackers like Mega Alakazam, Mega Latios, and Tapu Koko and backs up the majority of Toxapex's matchups against special attackers. Tornadus-T can defensively check and threaten the likes of Landorus-T and Kartana and forms a Regenerator core with Toxapex, giving the team plentiful longevity. Infestation allows Toxapex to trap greedy Pokemon like Chansey and Slowbro, spread chip damage to poison-immune Pokemon like Mega Mawile, and prevent opposing double switches thanks to the trapping effect. Block is a longer-term version that skips the chip damage in order to ensure that a passive adversary can be choked out over a long period of time. It can be coupled with Spite to improve its efficiency at this, allowing Toxapex to burn out opposing Toxapex and utility Clefable and live to tell the tale. Blizzard paired with Icium Z is an off-beat option to snipe Gliscor that additionally removes the need to fish for a Scald burn against Landorus-T and Garchomp. Gunk Shot with Poisonium Z is a similar idea that takes a heavy chunk out of each of the guardian deities, OHKOing each of them but Tapu Fini. Z-Liquidation is an option for Toxapex to hit Heatran, Volcarona, and Mega Tyranitar on their comparatively weaker Defense stat. Eject Button is an option for more offensive builds that mitigates Toxapex's drain on momentum by allowing it to reverse opposing pivot moves like U-turn, heal off the damage with Regenerator, and bring in a teammate for free. On stall teams, Toxapex can even afford to drop Recover to fit an extra utility move.
Toxapex (SS competitive strategy): In spite of all that has been developed to counteract its presence, Toxapex still endures as an easy-to-fit metagame staple in SS OU. Blessed with absurd defenses and Regenerator, Toxapex can soft check just about anything and threatens item removal with Knock Off, status in Toxic and Scald, and the removal of stat boosts with Haze. This titanic bulk also means that Toxapex can pivot into an extensive amount of Pokemon and scout them, easing prediction against threats like Blaziken, Choice Specs Dragapult, Blacephalon, and Choice Band Tyranitar. As the metagame has developed, countermeasures have been mounted against the living bunker: Future Sight from the likes of Slowbro, Galarian Slowking, and Tapu Lele paired with strong attackers is a common tactic to try and break through Toxapex. However, much like the animal it takes its inspiration from, it adapts to the environment around it, most notably reinventing itself as a Light Screen pivot to halve damage from Future Sight, allowing it to effectively wall Future Sight chains by staying in and healing just before the attack hits. However, compared to other Regenerator users, Toxapex suffers from a severe case of four-moveslot syndrome that can make it very passive, often finding itself treated as set up fodder by the likes of Swords Dance Kartana, Calm Mind Clefable, and Substitute Volcarona, as it struggles to fit Scald and Haze together in the modern metagame. Additionally, its typing is both a blessing and a curse; while checking or flat out countering physical attackers like Urshifu-R and Blaziken is a large boon, it is prone to being overwhelmed by the attackers it is supposed to check by virtue of the common Future Sight support these wallbreakers often are paired with. This passivity also means most Toxapex sets are free entry points for strong offensive Ground-types like Excadrill and Garchomp. The choice of what Toxapex has to run on a given team is quite the conundrum, and every moveset Toxapex runs has some hole it can't effectively cover without the help of its teammates. Toxapex has an extensive movepool and a lot of different choices it can pick and choose from. Light Screen is excellent support for both itself and its teammates, halving the damage from the ubiquitous Future Sight and allowing Toxapex to come in on special attackers such as Volcanion and Blacephalon effectively. Knock Off is a fantastic move that allows Toxapex's teammates some much needed reprieve by removing items from the likes of Urshifu-R, Dragapult, and Landorus-T. Scald is Toxapex's best immediate damaging option, chipping away at the health of Water-weak Pokemon, and can critically punish switches with burns, potentially crippling physical attackers like Rillaboom and Garchomp while also ensuring Ferrothorn and Corviknight can't come in on Toxapex risk-free. Poison Jab is necessary on some structures to ensure that Toxapex isn't setup fodder for Calm Mind Tapu Fini. Toxic is an enticing move for Toxapex, as it will put common pivots like Landorus-T, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T on a timer and has inherent synergy with Knock Off, which allows Toxapex to either remove items from Pokemon that are Toxic-immune or put problematic Pokemon such as Tapu Lele and Volcarona on a timer. Haze is an alternative that lets Toxapex remove boosts and PP stall setup sweepers like Volcarona. The only mandatory move Toxapex has is Recover; it is reliant on the move to stay healthy in longer matches. The choice of nature will mostly depend on what moves Toxapex is running; Impish means Knock Off and Poison Jab will hit a bit harder, Bold means that Scald will deal a bit more damage, and a Relaxed nature will mean Toxapex isn't picking and choosing between natures that hamper its attacking stats and can allow it to scout Pokemon that are otherwise slower than it like Slowbro and Slowking. The item Toxapex chooses is extremely important, as every single one has different advantages. Shed Shell means that Toxapex won't be trapped by Magma Storm Heatran and allows it to cripple Heatran's longevity with Knock Off or wear it down with Scald before switching out. Rocky Helmet will deal significant damage to attackers like Urshifu-R and Weavile that are reliant on contact moves and can punish pivoting moves like U-turn with heavy chip damage. Finally, Black Sludge gives Toxapex even more longevity and allows it to punish Trick users like Blacephalon and Tapu Fini. Toxapex fits on an extensive number of teams and forms synergistic defensive cores with a large amount of Pokemon. Tornadus-T pairs well with Toxapex, forming a potent Regenerator core that can check Kartana, Rillaboom, and Ferrothorn, all of which Toxapex can otherwise struggle to do anything noteworthy to without Scald. Toxapex will, in return, check strong wallbreakers like Blaziken and Weavile that can threaten to break through Tornadus-T. Corviknight and Zapdos similarly pair well with Toxapex, and all three Flying-types provide consistent entry hazard removal with Defog, which Toxapex appreciates. The aforementioned Flying-types also check bulky Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Garchomp, which Toxapex can't realistically manage on its own. Clefable is another utility piece that works well with Toxapex and can allow Toxapex to keep its item, since Clefable is a good Knock Off absorber. Toxapex synergizes incredibly well with bulky Ground-types like Landorus-T, Garchomp, Hippowdon, and Gastrodon, since they scare out and check some of Toxapex's worst matchups like Tapu Koko, Magma Storm Heatran, and Zapdos. A final teammate to consider is Blissey, as it checks Pokemon that Toxapex can't realistically manage on its own such as Choice Specs Volcanion, Blacephalon, and Choice Scarf Tapu Lele. This set aims to turn Toxapex into a strong special wall that can check a large swath of special attackers such as Volcanion, Dragapult, Blacephalon, and Volcarona while still being able to handle physical attackers like Urshifu-R and Weavile with its incredible defensive typing and good physical bulk even without investment. Knock Off lets Toxapex hamper wallbreakers like Choice Specs Dragapult and Choice Band Urshifu-R while also removing Heavy-Duty Boots and Leftovers from the likes of Zapdos and Landorus-T. Toxic puts switch-ins like Slowbro and Tornadus-T on a timer. The burn chance from Scald is noteworthy, as Toxapex will have a lot of opportunities to come in and fire off the move, giving it chances to burn switch-ins like Galarian Slowking and Ferrothorn. Poison Jab gives Toxapex the ability to beat Calm Mind Tapu Fini. Haze and Recover ensure that Toxapex can keep up its walling capabilities, as without Haze, it will critically fail to check setup sweepers like Substitute + Quiver Dance Volcarona effectively. Should your team have appropriate counterplay versus these setup sweepers, Light Screen can be considered to support the team with counterplay against Future Sight while also easing prediction against special attackers like Zapdos and Tapu Lele. The given special bulk investment ensures that Toxapex can shrug off special hits from the likes of Dragapult and Volcanion effectively. 20 Defense EVs let Toxapex survive unboosted Modest Tapu Lele's Psyshock at full health, allowing Toxapex to either poison it with Toxic or remove its item with Knock Off. Shed Shell enables Toxapex to avoid being trapped by Heatran's Magma storm and irritate it with STAB Scald or Knock Off before switching out, while Black Sludge can allow Toxapex to effectively disrupt Trick users like Blacephalon and gives Toxapex even more longevity. Seeing as this Toxapex set is not a catch-all for physical attackers, you will need to account for this when picking teammates. Physically defensive Corviknight is a standard pairing with specially defensive Toxapex, as it can check threats like Landorus-T, Rillaboom, Kartana, and Melmetal while also clearing away entry hazards with Defog. Zapdos can fill a similar role to the aforementioned Corviknight while also acting as a good special attacker, which makes up for Toxapex's passivity. Tornadus-T is another option that can allow Toxapex to drop Knock Off for Toxic, as Tornadus-T is incredibly efficient at removing items. It can also set up with Nasty Plot and KO Pokemon like Heatran which would otherwise check Toxapex. Clefable is a good partner to Toxapex, as it can check threats like Garchomp and Weavile while having the ability to set Stealth Rock effectively, remove items with Knock Off, or be an Unaware tank that can effectively match them. Buzzwole is a physical tank that can check Weavile and Kartana, as well as key threats like Choice Band Tyranitar, which specially defensive Toxapex cannot effectively handle. Offensive Steel-types like Melmetal also help out Toxapex by a fair amount, as Toxapex is deathly afraid of staring down Tapu Lele, which Melmetal can handily scare out. Toxapex has good type synergy with bulky Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Garchomp that can threaten its checks like Magma Storm Heatran, Galarian Slowking, and Electric-types like Tapu Koko with their strong STAB Earthquakes. Baneful Bunker can appear to be an enticing way for Toxapex to punish contact moves such as U-turn and Knock Off and scout coverage moves, but this is often redundant, as Toxapex is already a dedicated physical sponge, so it should only really be considered on teams weak to some specific wallbreakers with contact moves like Victini and Rillaboom. A rare albeit potent item Toxapex can choose to run is Payapa Berry, allowing it to survive a STAB Psychic or Psyshock from Tapu Lele and remove its item with Knock Off or status it with Toxic. Toxapex can run Block + Spite with Knock Off and Recover, which allows it to trap and PP stall common switch-ins like Ferrothorn and Clefable while still being able to pivot in and remove items effectively. Finally, Toxapex can choose to run Toxic Spikes, which will critically forces status on grounded targets such as Tapu Fini, Garchomp, Arctozolt, and Tyranitar.
Toxapex (SV competitive strategy): Toxapex holds a niche as a strong mixed wall, being able to effectively hold the line against a plethora of strong neutral hits and healing off large portions of damage through a combination of Recover and Regenerator. Compared to Liquidation, Surf allows Toxapex to achieve a 3HKO against Lokix, and does more damage to Rhyperior while also having more PP. Liquidation deals more damage to Tyranitar and bulkier variants of Excadrill, and it also allows Toxapex to utilize its bulk by fishing for Defense drops. Toxic and Haze form a potent combination and prevent Toxapex from being vulnerable to setup sweepers like Hydrapple and Quaquaval while also making it a reliable stopgap against Battle Bond Greninja. Toxic also allows it to threaten bulkier foes like Slowking, Tornadus-T, and Hippowdon by putting them on a timer. Heavy-Duty Boots expands Toxapex's longevity, while Rocky Helmet can be used to punish physically oriented pivots like Scizor and Lokix. Leftovers provides passive recovery that compounds with Regenerator and alleviates the need to use Recover. The given EV spread allows Toxapex to avoid being 2HKOed by Hisuian Arcanine's Head Smash as well as avoiding the OHKO from non-Choice Specs Latios's Luster Purge. Toxapex's Tera type is largely customizable based on the needs of the team; Tera Fairy is a strong neutral defensive typing that maintains Toxapex's resistances to Bug and Fighting while giving it an immunity to Dragon, while Tera Ground gives Toxapex an immunity to Electric-type moves from Sandy Shocks and Thundurus-T. Options such as Tera Steel to maintain Toxapex's Steel and Fairy resistances and immunity to Toxic are also viable. Toxapex fits best on balance teams that appreciate the unique options it provides over Slowking, most notably Haze and Toxic. For this reason, it pairs exceptionally well with Pokemon that struggle against Slowking, such as Rhyperior, Tinkaton, and Tornadus-T, creating a solid defensive backbone with the former two and a Regenerator core with the latter. Tinkaton and Tornadus-T in particular are appreciated due to their ability to check Latios, which can power through Toxapex with ease. Hydrapple is a strong partner thanks to its Ground resistance and its ability to form a Regenerator core with Toxapex. Mandibuzz is a particularly good partner thanks to its ability to remove entry hazards with Defog and function as a backup check to Quaquaval and Latios while also appreciating Toxapex's ability to stave off Belly Drum Azumarill. In a similar vein, Toxapex is also appreciated on sand teams because it can cut into the longevity of bulkier foes, especially when Toxic is compounded with the chip damage from sand, making it easier for Pokemon like Excadrill and Ogerpon-C to bulldoze the opposing team. In return, these Pokemon can remove troublesome foes like Thundurus-T and opposing Excadrill that threaten Toxapex with heavy damage. Cobalion makes a good partner, as it can reliably check Swords Dance Ogerpon-C and Non-Terastillized Swords Dance Zarude, both of which can muscle through Toxapex with relative ease. In addition, Toxapex can struggle against other offensive staples like Zarude and Thundurus-T, so revenge killers such as Lokix and Scizor or bulkier teammates that are not as vulnerable to these foes, such as Hippowdon and Rhyperior, are greatly appreciated.
Florges (XY competitive strategy): With an excellent defensive typing, a great set of resistances, reliable recovery in Synthesis and Wish, and a solid supporting movepool, Florges has long been a staple in the UU tier. Boasting solid defensive stats, albeit a rather poor base Defense, Florges also has an often-overlooked Special Attack stat and a good offensive STAB move in Moonblast. However, Florges grants a free switch to several threatening Pokemon such as various Steel- and Fire-types. It is also setup fodder for many common setup sweepers and often falls victim to common stallbreaking tactics such as Trick and Taunt. In addition, Florges's abilities have no use in the singles format. Finally, it faces heavy competition from Sylveon, who passes larger Wishes and hits significantly harder thanks to access to Pixilate Hyper Voice. Florges is a decent Wish passer and is usually able to reliably heal itself and its teammates with Wish. Synthesis is Florges's main niche over Sylveon, allowing it to reliably restore its own health against phazers such as Swampert. Protect is an option over Synthesis that enables Florges to safely receive its own Wish unless it gets phazed by Roar or Whirlwind; it is also important for scouting movesets and Choiced attackers and grants Florges additional Leftovers recovery. Moonblast is reasonably strong coming off Florges's naturally high Special Attack and is able to OHKO several offensive Pokemon, such as Hydreigon, Mega Absol, and Mienshao. Aromatherapy removes status from Florges and its teammates, while Toxic can be used instead to wear down Fire-type switch-ins and bulkier Pokemon. However, many of Florges's switch-ins are immune to Toxic because of their typing, such as Bronzong and Nidoqueen, or can heal themselves of status, such as Blissey and opposing Florges. Maximum investment in Defense and HP along with a Bold nature allows Florges to easily take attacks from the likes of Mienshao, Krookodile, and Heracross. With Florges' base Special Defense stat already being so high, it isn't necessary to invest in it. If it better suits your team though, a more specially defensive EV spread of 252 HP / 224 Def / 32 SpD with a Calm nature can be used to more reliably counter threatening special attackers, such as Kyurem, Mega Blastoise, Heliolisk, and Mega Ampharos. Leftovers lets Florges heal passively without relying on Wish and works well in tandem with Protect. Neither of Florges's abilities is useful, so either one can be used. Protect should be used to scout Choiced Pokemon or possibly threatening coverage moves such as Iron Tail on Hydreigon. However, Florges must be wary of Pokemon that can take advantage of the free turn granted by Protect by boosting or using Substitute. If Synthesis is preferred, it should always be used instead of Wish to heal Florges itself. This Florges set works best on balanced teams and can make up part of the defensive backbone that these teams require. Pokemon that can check Fire-, Steel-, and Poison-types work well as partners; bulky Water-types can fulfill this role effectively. Swampert in particular is a great teammate as it has great defensive synergy with Florges, provides Stealth Rock, and can phaze setup sweepers that Florges hates, such as CurseLax, while Florges supports Swampert in return with Wish and Aromatherapy. Krookodile is another great teammate that can beat many foes that threaten Florges, such as Nidoqueen and Roserade. Mega Aggron can also support Florges with Stealth Rock and phazing while standing up to threats such as Crobat and Mega Beedrill. Calm Mind boosts Florges's Special Attack and Special Defense, letting it eventually break down special walls while also becoming extremely difficult to take down with special attacks. Moonblast is the set's only attack and has a good offensive typing and respectable power with STAB. Synthesis is used to immediately restore half of Florges's HP. Finally, Aromatherapy heals Florges of status and makes Florges extremely hard for defensively oriented teams to take down; it also provides useful cleric support for the rest of Florges's team. Maximum investment in Defense and HP along with a Bold nature allows Florges to easily take attacks from the likes of Mienshao, Krookodile, and Heracross; no EVs need to be placed into Special Defense because it will be boosted by Calm Mind. Thus, Florges is very difficult to revenge kill after it sets up thanks to its heavy investment in Defense coupled with its boosted Special Defense. If it better suits your team though, a more specially defensive EV spread of 252 HP / 224 Def / 32 SpD with a Calm nature can be used. Leftovers provides Florges with passive healing as it boosts, allowing it to use Synthesis less frequently. This set fits well on bulky offensive teams as a check to various attackers as well as an excellent win condition against stall, which struggles to take Florges down without a setup sweeper of its own, such as CroCune. Florges should not attempt to play around Pokemon such as Toxic Blissey and defensive Arcanine, which can both wear Florges down easily with repeated statuses and attacks, forcing Florges to use up its limited Aromatherapy and Synthesis PP. Instead, Florges should set up on non-boosting special attackers, such as Mega Blastoise and even slower variants of Life Orb Nidoqueen, as well as passive Pokemon, such as Gligar, Alomomola, and even Gyro Ball Forretress. However, Florges struggles against most opposing setup sweepers, such as CroCune, Calm Mind Cresselia, and CurseLax, and should not attempt to beat them one-on-one. Florges needs most Steel-, Poison-, and Fire-types weakened or removed before it can set up safely. Krookodile is an excellent partner, as it can trap Bronzong and check Poison-types such as Roserade and Toxicroak, while appreciating Florges's ability to switch into Fighting-types. Swampert is also a great partner, as it can set up Stealth Rock to pressure opposing Fire-types, check Fire- and Steel-types, and phaze opposing setup sweepers that can beat Florges. Toxic Spikes is a great option to pair with Florges that forces opposing Pokemon such as Alomomola and Arcanine to recover frequently, granting Florges more setup opportunities. Florges has access to a decent coverage move in Psychic, which can defeat Poison-types such as Nidoqueen and Roserade and can deal considerable damage to Fire-types. Florges also has access to Energy Ball to hit Water- and Ground-types harder or can use Hidden Power Fire to deal decent damage to Steel-types barring Empoleon, especially Forretress, which commonly uses Florges's presence on the field to set up entry hazards. A combination of Toxic and Worry Seed can be used to defeat opposing walls and bulky setup sweepers. With a naturally high Special Attack, Florges can run an offensive Calm Mind set with two or three attacks. However, its low Speed and poor uninvested physical bulk prevent this set from being too effective. Florges can use a Choice Scarf to get surprise KOs on faster Pokemon such as Crobat and Infernape; a Modest nature should be used over a Timid nature on such a set, as the latter doesn't let Florges outspeed anything relevant. Florges can also run Choice Specs with the aforementioned coverage moves to deal major damage to most switch-ins.
Florges (SM competitive strategy): Florges has solidified itself as one of the best Fairy-types and defensive staples in the tier by virtue of its immense special bulk, allowing it to check threats such as Mega Blastoise, Noivern, and Mega Sceptile. Florges's access to Synthesis gives it instant recovery to consistently pivot into these threats, but you should be wary of the limited amount of PP Synthesis has. Florges's viability is further increased by its status as one of the few viable Wish users in the tier, as well as fulfilling the role of a cleric, which only Diancie gives it competition for. Florges also possesses a decent offensive presence with its above-average Special Attack in conjunction with a powerful STAB move in Moonblast. Unfortunately, very mediocre physical bulk means Florges struggles to directly switch into strong threats like Choice Band Bewear and Guts Machamp. While Florges does outspeed these threats, it will most likely be forced to use Synthesis in response in order to be able to pivot into them or other threats later. Although Florges provides a lot of utility for a team, it can be very passive, which allows threats like Metagross, Ninetales, and Arcanine to take advantage of it and fire off a strong attack or use it as a setup fodder, particularly in the former two's case. STAB Moonblast hits relatively hard and has the chance to drop a foe's Special Attack by one stage, allowing Florges to check it more easily. Synthesis allows Florges to keep switching into threats like Mega Blastoise and Mega Sceptile without much fear. Aromatherapy provides a way to cure status conditions such as Toxic and Will-O-Wisp from Florges and its team. Wish provides Florges with the ability to recover the health of its teammates, especially ones that lack reliable recovery such as Bronzong and Nidoqueen. This can also provide a way for Florges to recover its own health without Synthesis's limited PP and reduced recovery in sand and hail; this is vital because Synthesis is important for the immediate recovery against offensive teams. 136 Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow Florges to outspeed and remove threats like Bewear and Adamant Tyrantrum. The rest of the EVs are put into its physical bulk to tank hits from the physical Fighting-types in the tier. Leftovers provide Florges with passive recovery to perform its role as a cleric for longer. Florges should use its massive Special Defense stat and Fairy typing to switch into Pokemon like Yanmega, Mega Sceptile, and Mega Ampharos. Florges should also aim to support its teammates with Wish and cleric support; however, Aromatherapy should not be used too liberally due to its low PP. If Florges is up against a wall it can't beat like Bronzong or Registeel, it should refrain from using Aromatherapy unless a teammate desperately needs its status removed at the cost of Florges's health or getting crippled by status again. Florges invites a lot of threats like Escavalier, Ninetales, and Salazzle to fire off a strong hit. Ninetales and Salazzle can use Florges's passivity as a setup opportunity to start breaking, which means Florges should not use utility moves every opportunity it is given, as it can give up a lot of momentum. However, Florges can minimize the damage output these Pokemon can achieve by passing a Wish to a teammate that can pivot in more safely as a result. Wish should be used a lot early on in a match in comparison to Synthesis due to Synthesis's low PP, which can be vital against offensive teams that can deny it the opportunity to receive its own Wish. Florges has poor Defense, which means it struggles to switch into a lot of physical threats like Zygarde-10% and Guts Machamp. For example, a Guts-boosted Close Combat from Machamp is able to 2HKO Florges, which forces it into scenarios where it may need to use Synthesis, as otherwise it won't be able to constantly switch into other threats later. Therefore, avoid switching into these Pokemon too liberally, since it can get easily overwhelmed. Florges fits best on balanced and bulky offense teams that appreciate the utility it can provide for its members. Pokemon like Rhyperior and Mega Blastoise are fantastic partners that are capable of checking the Fire-types such as Arcanine and Salazzle that take advantage of Florges's passivity. These partners can also help remove most of the Steel-types in the tier that Florges is unable to pressure. In return, Florges checks Grass-types like Mega Sceptile, Shaymin, and Virizion that threaten them and can increase their longevity by providing valuable Wish and cleric support. Entry hazard removal from Mantine, Mandibuzz, and the aforementioned Mega Blastoise help take pressure off Florges, giving it more opportunities to recover health or use Aromatherapy. Steel-types like Escavalier and Metagross work really well with Florges by handling opposing Steel- and Poison-types, which Florges can't punish effectively. Likewise, Ground-types such as Donphan, Nidoqueen, and Zygarde-10% are able to offensively pressure these Steel- and Poison-types like Metagross and Toxicroak. Florges can provide them with Wish and cleric support to prevent them from getting easily worn down in exchange. Setup Pokemon like Calm Mind Cresselia and Curse Snorlax appreciate Florges's ability to cure them of status ailments that hinder their ability to sweep, and in return, they can pivot into specially offensive Poison-types like Nidoqueen and Roserade. Virizion and Calm Mind Raikou are alternative setup sweepers that benefit massively from Florges curing their status conditions, allowing them to accumulate multiple boosts and increasing their longevity. Pokemon that lack and appreciate a form of substantial recovery such as Bronzong and Mega Ampharos work superbly with Florges thanks to its access to Wish support. A more physically defensive set with a Bold nature can be utilized to allow Florges to switch into Fighting-types and other physically offensive Pokemon like Zygarde-10% and Golisopod easier at the cost of not being able to outspeed some of the tier's prominent threats like Tyrantrum and Bewear. Florges can run Defog if the need for entry hazard removal and a cleric needs to be compressed into one slot. However, Florges loses to a lot of the hazard setters in the tier such as Metagross, Nidoqueen, and Bronzong. Florges can also be overworked with trying to perform so many roles for a team. Toxic can be used to put Pokemon like Calm Mind Raikou and Necrozma on a timer, allowing Florges to better handle them between Moonblast and spamming its recovery moves, but Florges struggles to compress this onto its set over other utility moves that benefit more teams. Coverage options like Psychic and Hidden Power Fire can be run to punish threats like Salazzle and Escavalier attempting to freely pivot into Florges. However, Florges faces a lot of competition with Gardevoir and Ribombee, other Fairy-types with access to these coverage moves that fulfill an offensive role better. A Calm Mind variant can be used to help Florges break through a few offensive teams and allow it to take on threats like Calm Mind Raikou and Necrozma better, but the tier has a vast amount of Steel- and Poison-types that can prevent the effectiveness of such a set. A set with an EV spread of 252 HP / 32 SpA / 224 Spe, a Modest nature, and Pixie Plate can be used to fulfill a similar role but gives Florges more offensive presence at the expense of some Defense. Choice-locked Florges using either a Choice Scarf or Choice Specs can be used as a surprise set to more easily revenge kill or wallbreak, respectively, but this is severely outclassed by Gardevoir in this regard.
Florges (SV competitive strategy): Florges is one of PU's best Choice Scarf users thanks to its high Special Attack stat, strong and spammable STAB move, Trick, and decent bulk for a revenge killer. Synthesis allows Florges to recover health against Pokemon it forces out such as Bombirdier, Wo-Chien, and Altaria; however, it is risky if Florges has not given away its Choice Scarf with Trick. Calm Mind makes Florges become a setup sweeper after using Trick to give away its Choice Scarf. Tera Blast should be used with Tera Ground to hit Pokemon that otherwise wall it such as Galarian Slowbro and Coalossal while also providing defensive utility against Pokemon like Skuntank. Psychic is a decent mid-ground against Poison-types such as Salazzle and Toxtricity and comes with the benefit of targeting these two without Terastallizing. Finally, Wish gives Florges utility by allowing it to help heal its teammates' HP. Tera Fairy boosts Moonblast to incredible amounts of power, allowing Florges to 2HKO Bellibolt and OHKO Kilowattrel. Florges can either opt for an EV spread of 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe or use a more bulky EV spread of 252 HP / 24 Def / 232 Spe, which allows it to have enough Speed to outpace Jolteon and Adamant Bombirdier as well as Skuntank after Trick, and it can pass bigger Wishes to its teammates. Finally, Tera Poison is a purely defensive Tera type that allows Florges to take attacks from Pokemon like Salazzle, Decidueye, and Duraludon. Choice Scarf Florges finds itself mostly on offense and balance teams looking for a reliable form of speed control that can disrupt balance teams thanks to Trick. Florges's unqiue trait of good bulk while still retaining great offensive pressure makes it a more specialized Choice Scarf user than other choices such as Hoopa and Flamigo. Florges can't reliably break though Steel- and Poison-types such as Bronzong, Galarian Slowbro, and Copperajah without Terastallizing, so Pokemon that can take these threats on like Zoroark, Mudsdale, and Paldean Tauros-F all make good partners. Florges's ability to revenge kill Pokemon like Paldean Tauros-W and Zoroark allows slower wallbreakers that struggle with these faster threats such as Golurk, Rotom-H, and Decidueye to be more potent attackers. Since it can't run Heavy-Duty Boots and will likely switch in often, Florges appreciates entry hazard control from Pokemon like Altaria, Coalossal, and Tastugiri so it can become more threatening. In turn, Florges removes their checks such as Ambipom and Bombirdier. Florges finds itself used over other Calm Mind sweepers like Scream Tail and is one of PU's best bulky setup sweepers thanks to its great defensive typing, wide range of utility options, reliable recovery, and immunity to Dragon Tail. Florges has a wide variety of options for its third moveslot; Psychic Noise is coverage for Poison-types like Salazzle when Florges would want to avoid Terastallizing, and it also prevents Specially Defensive walls like Gastrodon and Wish Scream Tail from attempting to stall out Florges with their recovery. Tera Blast should be paired with Tera Ground, which allows Florges to break through Poison- and Fire-types like Galarian Slowbro, Coalossal, and Arcanine. Finally, Wish allows Florges to provide support for its team and gives it extra PP for recovery to pair with Synthesis; it is primarily used as a wall rather than a primary win condition, although it comes at the cost of not having coverage. The given EV spread allows Florges to obtain as much physical bulk as possible while also outspeeding Adamant Golurk as well as opposing walls such as Wo-Chien and Milotic. When not running Tera Blast, Tera Poison is ideal for a strong defensive typing, allowing Florges to set up against Pokemon like Galarian Slowbro and Bellibolt. Tera Ground should be paired with Tera Blast, and although it provides a worse defensive typing, it allows Florges to set up against Pokemon like Salazzle as well as Pokemon like Kilowattrel and Delphox. Florges is most commonly used on bulky balance teams looking for a secondary wincon that, when teamed with a primary wincon like Arcanine and Decidueye, can also function as a special wall or a Wish passer if need be. Even with investment, Florges's physical bulk is not good enough to set up against physical attackers like Paldean Tauros-F and Scyther, so physical walls like Bellibolt, Mudsdale, and Altaria make excellent partners. Likewise, in order for Florges to attempt a sweep without Tera Blast Ground, Fire- and Steel-types like Arcanine, Delphox, and Alolan Sandslash must be chipped or KOed, which can be achieved by Pokemon like Golurk, Bruxish, and Rotom-H. In return, Florges can soft check and threaten out their offensive checks like Zoroark and Goodra. Florges's ability to soft check and threaten Dark- and Fighting-types like Grimmsnarl, Zoroark, Scrafty, and Hariyama makes the likes of Galarian Slowbro, Galarian Articuno, and one's own Scrafty amazing partners. In return, these three can defensively or offensively check some of Florges's own checks like an opposing Galarian Slowbro and Bronzong. If Florges opts for Wish, the ability to pass Wish is extremely beneficial to offensive partners like Staraptor and Decidueye, which chip away at opposing walls like Milotic and Gastrodon that can phaze out Florges, allowing Florges to sweep; Wish is also beneficial for partner walls lacking reliable recovery like Mudsdale, Houndstone, and Gligar. Florges is one of PU's best Wish passers thanks to its incredible special bulk, high Special Attack even without investment, and great defensive typing, allowing it to take on threats such as Scrafty, Wo-Chien, and Flamigo. Synthesis gives Florges reliable recovery, although Protect synergizes well with Wish and allows Florges to scout out attacks from Choice-locked Pokemon such as Staraptor and Flamigo. Psychic Noise lets Florges disrupt walls such as Gastrodon and Bellibolt by preventing them from recovering while also being a decent coverage option against Poison-types such as Salazzle and Toxtricity. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Florges to ignore entry hazards, although Leftovers is an option to give small amounts of recovery that can be helpful in tandem with Protect. The given EV spread allows Florges to outspeed Wo-Chien and Milotic while investing as much into Defense as possible to take advantage of its valuable resistances to Fighting and Dark. Tera Poison grants Florges a resistance to Grass- and Poison-type attacks from Pokemon like Rotom-C, Salazzle, and Skuntank. Florges finds itself on bulky balance teams that like its ability to Wish pass while also being a great mixed wall. Walls lacking recovery like Gligar, Mudsdale, and Bronzong appreciate Florges's ability to keep them healthy throughout the game. Florges can struggle with Poison- and Steel-type Pokemon like Galarian Slowbro, Skuntank, and Copperajah, which it can't Wish pass safely against, so Pokemon that can check these threats and also benefit from Florges's Wish passing capabilities such as Golurk, Mudsdale, and Arcanine make good partners. Florges's ability to check Pokemon like Scrafty and Kilowattrel makes it an excellent partner for Pokemon that struggle against these threats, such as Decidueye and Zoroark. Even though it resists Fighting-type attacks, Florges still appreciates other Fighting-resistant teammates like Galarian Slowbro and Altaria to not be its team's sole switch-in to them.The latter also takes advantage of setup sweepers Florges can't handle on its own, like Decidueye.
Silvally (SM competitive strategy): Thanks to a relatively high Speed tier, reasonable bulk, and a powerful STAB move in Double-Edge, Silvally is able to act as an offensive check to top threats in the metagame, with its Speed tier placing it above a variety of fast sweepers including Rock Polish Torterra, Combusken, and Z-Encore Chatot. Access to U-turn allows Silvally to quickly gain momentum for its team and solidifies it as one of the best Choice Scarf users in the tier. Silvally can also viably run a Swords Dance set with a Z-Crystal to break through bulkier Pokemon like Sandslash and Silvally-Fighting that are ordinarily used to check the Choice Scarf variant. However, using Silvally prevents other Silvally formes with more defensive utility such as Silvally-Fighting and Silvally-Dark from being used, making it difficult to fit on teams. Silvally is also somewhat reliant on its Normal-type moves to do damage and has a hard time dealing with common Pokemon that resist or are immune to them like Golem, Mawile, and Gourgeist-XL as a result. In addition, a weakness to entry hazards alongside recoil from Double-Edge can lead to Silvally being quickly worn down. Double-Edge is the STAB move of choice due to the great damage output it can provide, securing OHKOs on Combusken and Rapidash after Stealth Rock damage. U-turn provides Silvally with a way to quickly gain momentum and pivot out of unfavorable matchups against physically defensive Pokemon like Machoke and Mawile. Explosion heavily damages bulky Pokemon such as Silvally-Fighting and Bouffalant and allows Silvally to avoid setup sweepers that may look to take advantage of it being locked into Double-Edge. Surf allows Silvally to revenge kill Shell Smash Crustle while also doing heavy damage to Golem, securing an OHKO on offensive variants after their Sturdy has been broken. Alternatively, Ice Beam not only hits Normal-type checks such as Golem and Gourgeist-XL but also Grass-type sweepers such as Leafeon and Rock Polish Torterra, although Silvally becomes unable to meaningfully hurt Crustle without Surf. A Jolly nature should be used with Surf to avoid compromising Silvally's bulk, as Silvally is unable to OHKO Crustle even when using a Naive nature. A Naive nature is preferred when using Ice Beam, however, as the higher damage output allows Silvally to 2HKO Gourgeist-XL and defensive Golem after Stealth Rock damage and gives Silvally a 50% chance to OHKO Rock Polish Torterra after Stealth Rock damage. While Silvally does have respectable bulk, it's important to conserve its health as much as possible and avoid situations where it could be chipped into KO range of faster moves, such as +2 Aqua Jet or rain-boosted Surf from Swanna's Z-Mirror Move and Z-Rain Dance sets, respectively. To this end, keep the foe's health in mind when revenge killing with Silvally; it is often best to avoid recoil and opt for U-turn instead of Double-Edge if both moves will finish off a foe such as a weakened Simisage or Leafeon. Be careful when locking into Surf or Ice Beam, as they output underwhelming damage without a type advantage and, as such, can give setup opportunities to powerful sweepers like Bellossom and Combusken, respectively. While Double-Edge is notably stronger than these moves, it can also be taken advantage of by Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types, particularly setup sweepers like Pawniard and Shell Smash Crustle, so Explosion should sometimes be used to finish off a foe without losing momentum. Try to avoid using Explosion unless it's necessary, however, or Silvally is likely to be KOed regardless, such as by the foe or by recoil from Double-Edge. Silvally's main goal is to revenge kill foes, but it can also act as a strong late-game cleaner. As a result, avoid using Silvally early-game until it's either in a strong position to finish off a weakened team or necessary to revenge kill a foe. Silvally appreciates entry hazard support from Stealth Rock users like Mawile and Marowak, putting foes in KO range of its coverage and allowing it to put additional pressure on an opponent with U-turn. Torterra is an especially notable partner, as it is also able to switch into and heavily pressure traditional Normal-type checks such as defensive Mawile and Golem. Similarly, entry hazard removal can help keep Silvally healthy throughout a match, with Rotom-S and Swanna being examples of fantastic partners for this. The former is able to lure in Golem before crippling it with Will-O-Wisp and can soak up Fighting-type attacks from the likes of Machoke and Choice Scarf Electivire, while the latter can more easily break down Rock-, Ghost-, and Steel-types like Shuckle, Gourgeist-XL, and Mawile. Other Pokemon including Leafeon, Pawniard, and Rapidash that can break down Rock-, Ghost-, and Steel-types also make for great partners for Silvally, and they can use the U-turn support that it provides to find more opportunities to exert pressure on the opposing team and facilitate a late-game cleanup. Lastly, Silvally can create efficient VoltTurn cores alongside other pivots such as Monferno and the aforementioned Rotom-S, steadily wearing down foes and putting them in KO range of Silvally's Double-Edge. Double-Edge is Silvally's most reliable damage option, notably allowing it to secure KOs on Pokemon such as Silvally-Dragon and non-physically defensive Poliwrath after a Swords Dance boost and Stealth Rock damage. Return is a safe alternative STAB option that does not inflict recoil. Crunch covers Ghost-types in addition to Psychic-types, particularly those that resist Normal-type moves like Bronzor and Metang. Flame Charge allows Silvally to raise its Speed and outspeed Choice Scarf users like Rotom-S and Pinsir in addition to naturally faster Pokemon like Floatzel while also hitting Steel-types like Mawile for moderate damage. Alternatively, Explosion trades the ability to boost Speed for a slightly stronger Breakneck Blitz and allows Silvally to function as a stronger wallbreaker, powering through defensive tanks like physically defensive Poliwrath. Shadow Claw can be used over Crunch to circumvent Colbur Berry users such as Gourgeist-XL, but it has a notably lower damage output outside of this niche. Normalium Z turns Double-Edge, Explosion, or Return into Breakneck Blitz, avoiding the negative secondary effects in the case of the former two moves and allowing Silvally to take out defensive targets such as Sandslash, Silvally-Fighting, and Rotom-S after a Swords Dance boost. Maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature allows Silvally to Speed tie with opposing Silvally formes, Leafeon, and Electivire. Silvally is vulnerable to being worn down by chip damage, particularly if it is using Double-Edge, so bringing it onto the field with slow pivots and double switches is ideal. While Silvally can threaten out passive Pokemon to set up Swords Dance, one must be careful of status, particularly burn and poison, from the likes of Mareanie and Altaria that may cripple Silvally and limit it to being used as a one-time wallbreaker. Aim to preserve Silvally's Breakneck Blitz until it's necessary to take out a specific target, such as defensive Silvally-Fighting, or to avoid fainting due to recoil damage from Double-Edge. Crunch can be used to catch Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Dusclops and Bronzor on the switch to weaken them for a later sweep. When possible, Flame Charge should be used to finish off a weakened target or after setting up. Explosion can be used to take out bulkier Pokemon such as Bouffalant and Exeggutor. This can be used when Silvally is expected to faint or simply to open the door for a teammate like Bellossom to take advantage of. Even after a Swords Dance boost, Silvally can struggle to break past Steel- and Rock-types like Mawile and Golem, so Pokemon that can handle them like Sandslash, Torterra, and Simisage are beneficial. Stealth Rock support from Sandslash and Torterra also helps Silvally secure OHKOs on Pokemon like Leafeon and Muk with Double-Edge after a Swords Dance boost. Pivots like Volt Switch Rotom-S and U-turn Monferno can give Silvally free entry while also pressuring Pokemon like Mawile and Gourgeist-XL that give Silvally trouble. Alolan Golem and Probopass are especially notable as Volt Switch pivots that can also trap Steel-types with Magnet Pull. Silvally is prone to being worn down by entry hazards, so Pokemon that can clear them such as Swanna, Rotom-S, and Sandslash are valuable partners. Toxic Spikes in particular give Silvally trouble, so absorbers such as Mareanie and Muk should also be considered. Flying- and Poison-types such as Rotom-S, Mareanie, and Muk are also notable for pressuring Fighting-type Pokemon like Silvally-Fighting and Poliwrath for Silvally, chipping them into KO range of its Double-Edge. All of these Pokemon also check Gourgeist-XL, one of Silvally's most troublesome foes. Silvally can opt to use a special Choice Scarf set with Hyper Voice / Surf / Ice Beam / U-turn. However, the drop in power is very noticeable, leaving Silvally more reliant on its coverage moves to do damage and opening it up to being taken advantage of by a variety of Pokemon with high Special Defense such as Kecleon, specially defensive Mareanie, and Lickilicky. Defog can also be used over Ice Beam or Surf to provide entry hazard removal in emergency scenarios; however, a weakness to Toxic Spikes and inability to touch Golem, Crustle, and other entry hazard setters without the coverage provided by Surf or Ice Beam make Silvally an inadequate form of entry hazard control. Silvally can use U-turn on the Swords Dance set to bluff a Choice Scarf set and claim chip damage on switch-ins, but the additional utility provided by Explosion and Flame Charge is preferred. Silvally can use Psychium Z alongside Heal Block to increase its Special Attack by two stages and prevent the foe from using healing moves until it switches, giving Silvally a strong matchup against passive Pokemon like Pyukumuku, Bronzor, and Mareanie. Z-Heal Block can only be used once per game, however, and such a set has a hard time breaking through particularly bulky Pokemon such as Lickilicky. This set is also heavily reliant on Z-Heal Block to do damage and, as such, is unreliable against more offensive teams where Silvally is unable to find time to set up.
Silvally (SS competitive strategy): U-turn maintains momentum on Normal-resistant foes such as Galarian Stunfisk, Rhydon, Sableye, and Tangela. Explosion deals heavy damage to most neutral targets and prevents Defoggers like Altaria, Articuno, and Cramorant from clearing entry hazards. Crunch provides super effective damage against Ghost-types like Froslass, Rotom, and Gourgeist-S. Silvally pairs well with pivots such as Thwackey, Articuno, and Rotom, forming VoltTurn cores to chip down the opposition. As it invites and pivots out on Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types such as Rhydon, Klinklang, and Rotom with U-turn, teammates that can take advantage of them like Alolan-Dugtrio and Thievul are appreciated. Similarly, physical walls like Tangela, Cofagrigus, and Palossand can switch in on Silvally without too much trouble, so special wallbreakers that can threaten them like Jynx, Thievul, and Choice Specs Exeggutor are also good partners. Choice Band amplifies Silvally’s wallbreaking prowess while still making it an effective pivot. U-turn allows Silvally to escape bad matchups against Pokemon like Tangela, Cofagrigus, and Sableye. Crunch hits frailer Ghost-types such as Froslass and Rotom. Flamethrower targets Tangela and Steel-types such as Klinklang and Perrserker, while Surf discourages Rock- and Ground-types like Rhydon, Palossand, and Coalossal from switching in. Pivots like Rotom, Thwackey, and Articuno can help get Silvally onto the field safely and form VoltTurn cores. Pokemon that can deal with Rock- and Ghost-types like Tangela, Lurantis, and Alolan Persian ease the need for prediction, allowing Silvally to use its powerful Multi-Attack more freely as the game progresses. While Silvally does have coverage to discourage Rock-types and bulky Grass-types from freely switching in, it still appreciates Pokemon that can switch into them, such as Tangela and Altaria. In return, Silvally can threaten slower wallbreakers like Skuntank and Exeggutor. Physical attackers like Sawk, Rapidash, and Alolan Dugtrio appreciate Silvally weakening physical walls for them. With either Swords Dance or Work Up, Silvally becomes an imposing physical or mixed attacker thanks to its diverse coverage choices. Flamethrower hits Klinklang and Pawniard super effectively, preventing them from safely switching in. Crunch hits Rotom and Froslass, while Shadow Ball targets physically defensive Ghost-types like Cofagrigus, Palossand, and Gourgeist formes. However, opting for Shadow Ball encourages Silvally to run Work Up to boost the power of all its coverage moves. Surf targets Rock-types like Rhydon and Coalossal. Life Orb boosts all of Silvally's attacks at the cost of wearing it down whenever it attacks. Silvally appreciates other wallbreakers like Sawk or Skuntank spreading chip damage and providing Knock Off utility, as even at +1, it can have difficulty securing KOs on defensive Pokemon like Stunfisk and Altaria. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Miltank and Rhydon can help rack up residual damage, letting Silvally more easily set up as the game progresses. Due to Silvally's four-moveslot syndrome, Pokemon that can cover specific threats are appreciated to make it as difficult to wall as possible. If Silvally decides to run Shadow Ball or Crunch for the last moveslot, Water- and Grass-types like Poliwrath and Kabutops would be appreciated to handle Rock-types. However, if Surf is chosen, Pokemon to deal with Ghost-types like Rotom and Froslass, such as Throh and Qwilfish, are appreciated. Silk Scarf feigns Choice Band, but significantly decreases the power of Silvally’s coverage moves. A fully physical Swords Dance set alongside Flame Charge allows Silvally to be a threatening late-game cleaner, though it faces significant competition with its other formes.
Cobalion (BW competitive strategy): doesn't resist it, while Stone Edge is essential for hitting Zapdos and Victini super effectively. Hidden Power Ice allows Cobalion to get Cobalion, taking on Heracross, Earthquake from Flygon and Krookodile, while Flygon and Krookodile come close. Hitmontop has Intimidate and
Cobalion (XY competitive strategy): Cobalion is very diverse, being able to attack or support with equal efficiency given its well-rounded stats. Its dual base 90 offenses and great Speed combined with its access to Swords Dance and Calm Mind means it is perfectly equipped to sweep both physically and specially. Its Steel / Fighting typing gives it a STAB attack to deal with Fairy-types, which few other Fighting-types can boast. It also gives Cobalion a resistance to Dark-type moves, which combined with its fantastic Defense stat and ability Justified makes Cobalion an excellent Knock Off absorber. Furthermore, Cobalion is 4x resistant to Stealth Rock and immune to Toxic Spikes, which makes it easy for it to switch in multiple times throughout the match. On the downside, base 90 / 90 offenses are average at best, so although Cobalion is capable of boosting both, it lacks significant immediate power. It is also hampered by a poor base 72 Special Defense and weaknesses to common attacking types such as Fire, Fighting, and Ground. Cobalion is one of the fastest users of Stealth Rock, making it an excellent choice to set it up for offensive teams. Close Combat is a high-powered STAB move. Volt Switch helps gain momentum for your team while allowing Cobalion to rack up some damage on Pokemon weak to Electric-type attacks, such as Mega Blastoise and Crobat. Iron Head is an alternative STAB move that does not lower Cobalion's defenses and provides useful coverage against Fairies, while hitting the likes of Mega Aerodactyl and Heracross harder. Taunt can be used instead of Iron Head to shut down setup sweepers, such as Cresselia and Reuniclus, and to prevent entry hazards from being set up on your side. Thunder Wave is also an option that Cobalion can use to offer useful team support. Maximum Speed and a Jolly nature allow Cobalion to maintain its crucial Speed tier, outspeeding the likes of Mienshao and Shaymin while Speed tying with Infernape and Virizion. Maximum Attack EVs are used to back up Cobalion's average Attack. Leftovers increases Cobalion's longevity, but Shuca Berry can be used instead to better check Earthquake Mega Aerodactyl. Shuca Berry also allows Cobalion to safely stay in on common switch-ins, such as Gligar, Swampert, and Nidoqueen, and use Taunt to prevent them from setting up their own entry hazards. An alternative spread of 248 HP / 28 Atk / 232 Spe with a Jolly nature is enough to outspeed Mienshao and builds on Cobalion's decent natural bulk, allowing it to take hits such as Hydreigon's Draco Meteor and Shaymin's Seed Flare better. It still OHKOes or 2HKOes frail offensive Pokemon such as Lucario, but Cobalion will be considerably weaker against defensive teams. For example, Cobalion now fails to 2HKO standard Florges with Iron Head when using this spread. This Cobalion plays as a fast support Pokemon. Aim to use it early-game in order to get entry hazards up and gain momentum for your team. With its great physical bulk and resistances, Cobalion should find plenty of opportunities to come in throughout the match. It checks a lot of common offensive Pokemon, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Lucario, Mega Beedrill, Kyurem, Mega Abomasnow, and Mega Sharpedo. Justified provides Cobalion with a free Attack boost when hit by a Dark-type move, so it is an excellent Knock Off absorber. Avoid using Close Combat unless it is absolutely necessary, as the resulting stat drops compromise Cobalion's good bulk and make it more susceptible to being revenge killed. Special sweepers, such as Hydreigon and Mega Sceptile, appreciate Cobalion's ability to deal with special walls, such as Blissey and Umbreon, while setting Stealth Rock to wear down their checks and counters. In general, sweepers that benefit from entry hazard support are great partners. Because Cobalion has poor Special Defense and weaknesses to common attacking types, bulky Pokemon that cover these weaknesses, such as Suicune, Mega Blastoise, and Cresselia, work well with it. Close Combat and Iron Head are powerful STAB moves that offer good neutral coverage. Swords Dance makes Cobalion significantly more threatening; for example, with Life Orb and a +2 boost Cobalion can OHKO Mega Swampert with Close Combat after Stealth Rock damage. Stone Edge rounds out Cobalion's coverage perfectly, smashing Flying- and Fire-types such as Crobat and Entei. It also offers a neutral hit on Pokemon that resist Cobalion's STAB moves, such as Tentacruel. Substitute is an alternative over Stone Edge that allows Cobalion to avoid status and take advantage of its excellent natural bulk and physical resistances. Magnet Rise turns Ground-type counters such as Gligar and Nidoqueen into setup bait, and as a result any team that relies on such Pokemon to counter Cobalion will find themselves very hard-pressed to prevent a sweep if Cobalion carries the move. X-Scissor is another option to hit bulky Psychic-types such as Cresselia and Slowking super effectively. Stealth Rock can be run in the fourth slot if your team can't find room anywhere else and the coverage provided from Stone Edge isn't needed. Maximum Attack and Speed investment allows Cobalion to deal as much damage and be as fast as possible. Life Orb can be used if running three attacks, as Cobalion really appreciates the additional power boost. However, it does compromise Cobalion's decent bulk, so Lum Berry can be used instead to allow Cobalion to shrug off Scald burns and other status. Leftovers is recommended if you run Substitute to increase Cobalion's longevity. Additionally, Substitute can allow Cobalion to accumulate multiple boosts, so the lack of Life Orb should not matter in the long run. This set can either use its strong attacks early-game to punch holes in teams to open up a sweep for a team member or attempt a sweep itself late-game with its high Speed and good bulk. It's recommended to weaken Cobalion's checks and counters, such as Gligar and Swampert, as well as eliminate any possible revenge killers before attempting to sweep. Cobalion finds plenty of opportunities to come in and set up with its excellent bulk and resistances, particularly against Choice-locked Dark-type moves, which Cobalion can attempt to take advantage of with Justified to gain a useful Attack boost. While Cobalion may be outclassed by Lucario in terms of raw power, its higher bulk allows it to accumulate more boosts, and its much better Speed gives it more sweeping potential. Entry hazards greatly aid Cobalion in its sweep, so Stealth Rock users such as Swampert and Spikes users such as Froslass and Roserade make great partners. Cobalion is vulnerable to Fire-type moves and Scald, so bulky Pokemon that resist such moves, such as Suicune and Mega Blastoise, are solid teammates. Powerful special attackers such as Hydreigon and Mega Blastoise lure in the likes of Blissey and Umbreon, which Cobalion can easily set up on. As previously mentioned, it's a good idea to weaken Cobalion's counters before attempting a sweep, so powerful Choice Band users such as Heracross and Entei can be used to weaken bulky Ground-types such as Gligar, Swampert and Nidoqueen. Dark-types and Bug-types help take care of bulky Psychic-types such as Slowking and Cresselia, which are almost impossible for Cobalion to break through. Krookodile and Escavalier in particular can heavily weaken them with Pursuit to allow Cobalion to muscle past them later. Calm Mind boosts Cobalion's Special Attack to high levels, enabling it to attempt a sweep after a few boosts, while simultaneously patching up Cobalion's low Special Defense to make it harder to defeat. This makes it a great tank both physically and specially, considering its excellent Defense stat. Focus Blast is a high-powered, albeit inaccurate, STAB move that deals a lot of damage after a boost. Flash Cannon is a more reliable secondary STAB move that enables Cobalion to break through Fairies and provides decent neutral coverage alongside Focus Blast. Hidden Power Ghost is the preferred option in the last slot, allowing Cobalion to beat Ghost-types that resist both of its STAB types, such as Chandelure and Jellicent. Substitute can be used instead, as it allows Cobalion to avoid status and take advantage of its excellent natural bulk and physical resistances. With a few boosts Cobalion can also set up unbreakable Substitutes against weak special attackers such as Tentacruel. Magnet Rise turns Ground-type checks such as specially defensive Gligar into setup bait, and as a result any team that relies on such Pokemon to counter Cobalion will find themselves very hard-pressed to prevent a sweep if Cobalion carries this move. Maximum Special Attack and Speed are used so that Cobalion can deal as much damage and be as fast as possible. Life Orb is recommended if running three attacks, as Cobalion really appreciates the additional power boost. However, it does compromise Cobalion's decent bulk, so Lum Berry can be used to allow Cobalion to shrug off status. This set is not badly affected by burns, so Leftovers is generally a better option than Lum Berry. Leftovers is a given if you run Substitute, though, in order to create more Substitutes. Additionally, Substitute allows Cobalion to accumulate multiple boosts, so the lack of Life Orb should not matter in the long run. The surprise factor of this set plays a huge role, as teams will usually expect a physical set from Cobalion and react accordingly. This Cobalion's specially based nature allows it to break through Pokemon that would wall a physical set quite handily; for example, a +1 Life Orb Focus Blast OHKOes physically defensive Swampert after Stealth Rock and Spikes. As such, it can be used to eliminate certain physical walls to open up a sweep for one of its teammates. With its high Speed, it can also attempt a sweep on its own late-game. Due to Calm Mind boosting Cobalion's Special Defense, it can set up on specially attacking walls such as Alomomola, Cresselia, and Tentacruel. At +1, it can even set up unbreakable Substitutes against them. Be wary about Scald burns from bulky Water-types, though, as even though they don't affect Cobalion's damage output, they still hinder its longevity. Entry hazards greatly aid Cobalion in its sweep, so Stealth Rock users such as Swampert and Spikes users such as Froslass and Roserade make great partners. Cobalion has common weaknesses, so Pokemon that synergize well with it defensively, such as Suicune and Swampert, are solid teammates. Special attackers such as Hydreigon and Chandelure lure in the likes of Florges and Umbreon, which Cobalion can easily set up on. Powerful physical attackers such as Heracross, Mega Aerodactyl, and Tyrantrum, which appreciate Cobalion's ability to lure in and eliminate or weaken their counters, are also excellent partners. Dark-types and Bug-types help take care of bulky Psychic-types such as Slowking and Cresselia, which are almost impossible for Cobalion to break through if they pack Calm Mind themselves. Krookodile and Escavalier in particular can heavily weaken them with Pursuit to enable Cobalion to muscle through them later. Cobalion has a very diverse movepool with a wide range of options, but not all are viable. A mixed Work Up set can be used to enable Cobalion to lure in and break through specific checks, but it would usually be too weak to actually attempt a sweep. Rock Polish can be used to boost Cobalion's Speed to sky-high levels, but again its average offenses are a stumbling block in any sweeping attempt. With its access to Volt Switch, Cobalion can run a decent enough Choice Scarf set to scout and revenge kill, while also offering surprise factor. Sacred Sword is an option on the physical sets, compromising the power of Close Combat in exchange for not lowering Cobalion's defenses. It also has the added benefit of 2HKOing Curselax no matter how many Curses the latter has set up, but it's generally not recommended, as Cobalion really needs all the power it can get. Air Balloon can be used on Swords Dance sets to offer a one-time immunity to Ground-type attacks, as well as letting it have flexibility in its last moveslot. Salac Berry can also be used as Cobalion is bulky enough to survive most attacks from full health. With the Speed boost and a potential Swords Dance boost, it can easily sweep offensive teams.
Cobalion (SM competitive strategy): Cobalion is one of the premier threats in the tier, with a versatile set of options including the ability to boost with both Swords Dance and Calm Mind, access to Stealth Rock, excellent Speed, and a great defensive typing that lets it check top-tier threats like Scizor, Hydreigon, and Bisharp. Its immunity to Toxic lets it come in on threats like Blissey and means it doesn't have to worry about losing to poison damage. Swords Dance is its flagship set, being very customizable and fulfilling a lot of roles besides that of a sweeper. Cobalion can run a variety of items to better fit the need of the team it is used on, with Z-Moves to wallbreak more easily, Rocky Helmet to punish physical attackers, and Shuca Berry to lure and remove Ground-types like Krookodile all being viable options. It is one of the best Pokemon at punishing Dark-types and Pursuit trappers thanks to its ability Justified, and its presence alone will make some of Cobalion's Dark-weak teammates able to be played more freely. There are some drawbacks to using Cobalion; notably, its Steel / Fighting dual typing leaves it without resistances to Psychic and Flying, which means that threats like Latias and Togekiss can be harder for Cobalion's team to deal with if it is the only Steel-type. It also faces competition from other offensive Stealth Rock users like Krookodile, Nihilego, and Terrakion, all of which have more unboosted power and different defensive typings to take advantage of. It also is severely lacking in initial power before boosting, having a mediocre base 90 in both Attack and Special Attack. This leaves the Swords Dance set walled by Pokemon like Slowbro even after a boost, while the Calm Mind set can struggle to get KOs on even offensive Pokemon. The Calm Mind set's main competition in Nasty Plot Lucario can wallbreak much more easily, as well. Cobalion can run Stealth Rock viably, using its ability to force switches via the threat of Swords Dance to find time to set Stealth Rock. It can also set up on potential entry hazard removers that would come in to remove the Stealth Rock like Empoleon. If the team already has Stealth Rock support, Rock Polish is a great option to help Cobalion clean offensive teams. At +2 Speed, Cobalion will be faster than Choice Scarf users such as Krookodile and Hydreigon that normally revenge kill it, allowing it to hit them with Close Combat. Stone Edge is a viable coverage option to lure and remove Pokemon that normally wall Cobalion like Moltres, Chandelure, and Tentacruel. It has to give up either its ability to boost Speed or set Stealth Rock for this, so make sure Stealth Rock is present somewhere else on Cobalion's team. All-Out Pummeling is the strongest Z-Move available to Cobalion, allowing it to break through sturdy walls like Mega Aggron, Suicune, and Hippowdon when boosted as well as gaining KOs on threats like Krookodile unboosted. Steelium Z is an option to break through bulky Fighting-resistant foes like Gligar, Amoonguss, and Celebi more easily, but Fightinium Z's general power is usually the superior choice. Rocky Helmet allows Cobalion to punish pivots like Scizor and Mega Beedrill with chip damage, helping it generate momentum even by switching in. Shuca Berry gives Cobalion insurance when facing opposing Ground-types, allowing it to lure and remove faster ones like Choice Scarf Krookodile and switch into or set up on slower ones like Mamoswine more safely once. Justified is often activated when Cobalion attempts to check Dark-types like Bisharp and Hydreigon. It can take advantage of the +1 Attack boost by hitting hard immediately instead of having to use Swords Dance. Cobalion is not great at breaking through teams early-game, since its Attack leaves much to be desired. If run, Cobalion should be focused on setting Stealth Rock early and waiting for teammates or entry hazards to weaken foes before it attempts to sweep. Cobalion's HP should be kept high so it can survive revenge killing attempts when it is attempting to clean. Rock Polish aids it here by being able to outspeed and avoid attacks from Choice Scarf users when boosted, only fearing priority from Fighting-types like Infernape and Lucario. Be careful when using Cobalion's Z-Moves, be it Fightinium Z or Steelium Z. They should be used in order to get through walls Cobalion normally can't break. After it uses Swords Dance, Hippowdon, Alomomola, and Swampert all have to be wary of taking an All-Out Pummeling, while Gligar and Amoonguss should fear Corkscrew Crash. Aggressive play is rewarded with Rocky Helmet, so try to switch Cobalion into U-turn users like Scizor, Mega Beedrill, and even Choice Scarf Hydreigon; the chip damage will quickly add up for Cobalion's team and allow a cleaner to sweep more easily. Shuca Berry allows Cobalion to be more aggressive when facing Ground-types like Mamoswine and Gligar. In neutral situations, it can safely boost thanks to the reduced damage, while if the Ground-type is already on low HP, it can come in with impunity to revenge kill. Cobalion, despite being a Steel-type, has issues dealing with Fairy- and Psychic-types due to its neutrality to their attacks and its mediocre Special Defense. It is generally not advised to switch in and try and directly force them out, as Cobalion loses chunks of its HP quickly. Once it has acquired a Swords Dance boost, however, Cobalion will cleanly KO most Fairy-types like Florges and Togekiss. Special tanks that can absorb some of the punishment Cobalion doesn't like from attackers such as Starmie, Latias, Moltres, and Mega Manectric make good partners. Mega Altaria, Blissey, Empoleon and Nihilego all can cover varying special attackers for Cobalion, while it can check Scizor in return. Toxic Spikes can help Cobalion clean defensive teams more easily by putting the walls that beat it like Hippowdon, Slowbro, and Mega Slowbro on a timer. Tentacruel and Nihilego both can set the entry hazard well while also taking special attacks aimed at Cobalion. Spikes help Cobalion as well; although Klefki and Chesnaught both share parts of its typing, they are both able to cover weaknesses of Cobalion's dual typing with Klefki checking Fairy- and Psychic-types much better and Chesnaught handling bulky Water- and Ground-types. Klefki can also be used for Thunder Wave support, which lets Cobalion outspeed targets like Latias and Starmie it would normally fail to reach. Froslass can be used on as a Spikes setter on hyper offense teams with Cobalion. Cobalion can often appreciate a secondary Steel-type to supplement its role, as Cobalion itself is neutral to Psychic-, Flying-, and Fairy-type moves. Scizor is a great partner for Pursuit trapping threats like Latias and coming in on the defensive Fairy-types like Florges and Sylveon more easily, but this leaves the Flying-type weakness open. Bisharp also excels at helping remove Psychic-types but trades the Flying-type resistance for a Fairy-type neutrality. When using Rocky Helmet especially, cleaners like Mega Sharpedo, Swords Dance Scizor, and Mega Aerodactyl all appreciate the chip damage Cobalion sends early-game while also benefiting from Stealth Rock staying on the field. Pursuit users such as Krookodile, Mega Aerodactyl, and Alolan Muk can remove Psychic-types like Latias and Starmie that would check Cobalion and weaken the bulkier ones like Slowbro and Celebi into range for Cobalion to break through them. Dark-weak Pokemon like Latias, Gengar, and Starmie can all bait in Dark-types and Pursuit trappers that Cobalion loves to get setup opportunities on. Calm Mind allows Cobalion to patch its weak Special Defense and break through traditional physical walls, with Focus Blast and especially All-Out Pummeling surprising physical walls like Hippowdon and Swampert expecting to take a Close Combat. Flash Cannon is useful for hitting Fairy-types, and Calm Mind boosts help Cobalion tank Fairy-type STAB attacks more easily from Florges and Sylveon. Hidden Power Grass lets Cobalion break through Water-types like Jellicent and Slowbro and allows it to run Fightinium Z. This is especially notable for hitting Quagsire, which is used to check setup sweepers on stall teams. Volt Switch with Electrium Z is crucial for hitting a number of threats that normally wall Calm Mind Cobalion like Tentacruel and Moltres. Fightinium Z allows Cobalion to break through neutral targets like Hippowdon more easily, as well as giving it the necessary power to take down Blissey without having to boost a ton and lose HP in the process. Electrium Z is important for giving Cobalion access to a one-time nuke that also doesn't force it to switch out like using Volt Switch without the Z-Move does. Its targets include Tentacruel, Moltres, and Jellicent. Shuca Berry can be used on this set as well, giving Cobalion more setup opportunities when facing Ground-types. Cobalion should not be used much at all early-game, instead letting its teammates punch holes in the enemy team first. The Calm Mind set is better at finishing games than opening them. Be careful about revealing its moveset early, as the surprise factor is often a big part in Calm Mind sets picking up KOs on unsuspecting physical walls like Slowbro. Cobalion is especially valuable versus stall teams, which often will play around it as if its physical. Use Gigavolt Havoc wisely when running Volt Switch, as it is otherwise forced out when using Electric-type coverage, removing any boosts it has accumulated. It is often wise to use Volt Switch before boosting to try and soften targets into the Z-Move's range. This way, Cobalion won't have to use Volt Switch again and can keep its boosts to sweep. Cobalion can come in on special walls like Blissey and Nihilego to bluff the physical set and then proceed to set up Calm Minds at little cost. Choice item users like Hydreigon and Krookodile locked into Dark-type moves are also used as chances to get free setup. Alomomola is weak enough for Cobalion to set up on as well. While Cobalion does have the natural bulk to come in directly when it must, it appreciates having close to full HP when attempting to sweep, as it must usually tank a hit or two when setting up. Try and bring it in off pivoting moves or double switches when possible. Since this Cobalion set requires Stealth Rock support, a Ground-type like Hippowdon, Nidoqueen, or Gligar can both set the entry hazard and check Electric-types that could revenge kill Cobalion such as Mega Manectric and Zeraora. Toxic Spikes are a valuable tool, especially for breaking defensive teams, and Poison-types like Tentacruel, Nidoqueen, and Nihilego can provide them. Spikes from the likes of Chesnaught and Klefki can both chip enemy teams and force in hazard removers like Moltres and Tentacruel that Cobalion appreciates chip damage on. Pursuit trapping is valuable to prevent Latias from engaging in a Calm Mind war with Cobalion, along with removing potential revenge killers like Starmie and Gengar. Krookodile, Scizor, and Alolan Muk all can provide this utility. Calm Mind Cobalion starts off pretty weak and needs significant help from Pokemon that have good offense matchups in order to perform against those teams. Mega Aerodactyl, Starmie, and Mega Manectric are good examples of high-Speed threats that can soften offensive teams for Cobalion to eventually get through. Pivots to bring it in safely such as Gligar, Rotom-H, Rotom-C, and Zeraora help preserve Cobalion's HP and grant it more setup opportunities. Gligar and the Rotom formes also act as great pivots into the Ground-types that Cobalion is forced out by. Wallbreakers like Mamoswine, Gengar, and Primarina are all viable options to help soften teams early-game before Cobalion comes in to finish a game. Cobalion usually appreciates a secondary Steel-type like Empoleon or Scizor, especially because Calm Mind sets like to preserve their HP. A utility set with maximum HP and Speed investment and Stealth Rock, Close Combat, Thunder Wave, and Volt Switch is usable to focus on Cobalion's supportive aspects, but it is much more passive than the typical offensive sets and relies on teammates taking advantage of the status and entry hazards it provides. Life Orb is an option on Swords Dance sets to have a little bit more immediate power when unboosted, but the recoil takes away from a lot of the defensive utility Cobalion provides and worsens its matchup versus tanks with recovery like Hippowdon. X-Scissor can be used as coverage to hit Psychic-types like Slowbro, Celebi, and Latias super effectively, but its coverage otherwise is lacking and Cobalion has to drop a utility move for it. Taunt can be used to anti-lead other hazard users, but Pokemon with more offensive utility like Terrakion, Azelf, and Froslass generally outclass Cobalion in this role.
Cobalion (SS competitive strategy): Cobalion's flexibility and utility make it one of the best role compression options on bulky offense and balance teams. Its typing and ability Justified give it many openings against Pokemon such as Scizor, Zarude, non-Stun Spore Amoonguss, and Nihilego to reliably boost with Swords Dance or set Stealth Rock. This also helps Cobalion punish Choice-locked Zygarde-10% and Diggersby for using Outrage and Body Slam. Its quadruple resistance to Stealth Rock makes Cobalion incredibly difficult to wear down without other forms of residual damage, and its ability to exploit Pokemon such as the aforementioned Scizor and Zarude makes Cobalion an excellent user of Swords Dance. After a boost, coverage options like Stone Edge and Megahorn have limited switch-ins and can eliminate checks like Moltres, Gyarados, and Slowking, though the lack of perfect accuracy can make them somewhat unreliable. Cobalion also boasts some useful utility options such as Stealth Rock to chip down switch-ins, Toxic for crippling checks like Hippowdon and Salamence, and Volt Switch to gain momentum off checks like Galarian Slowbro. Cobalion's Speed tier also helps it offensively check dangerous Pokemon like Hydreigon, Nihilego, and Thundurus-T. However, its mediocre base 90 Attack means it's dependent on Swords Dance to be threatening, and teams with good Cobalion counterplay like Hippowdon and Galarian Slowbro can prevent it from setting up in front of desirable targets such as Scizor and Zarude. Non-Swords Dance Cobalion sets struggle to reliably break through Scizor and must be paired with other methods of checking it. Cobalion's Speed tier, while impressive, still leaves it vulnerable to common offensive Pokemon such as Azelf and Zygarde-10%. Cobalion's subpar Special Defense also means it can have trouble facing bulky Water-types like Rotom-W and Slowking and leaves Cobalion to take notable damage from even resisted special moves like Choice Scarf Hydreigon's Draco Meteor and Vanilluxe's Blizzard. Lastly, Cobalion's neutrality to Fairy, Flying, and Psychic hinders its role as a Steel-type against foes like Togekiss and Hatterene, which can strain teambuilding. Cobalion's great resistances and bulk give it many opportunities to set up in front of foes like Scizor, Zarude, Nihilego, and Mandibuzz. After a boost, Close Combat threatens to 2HKO the previously mentioned targets and OHKO other threats like Rotom-W after Stealth Rock. Megahorn provides valuable coverage against Slowking and Tangrowth, notably OHKOing the former after a boost and minimal chip. Stone Edge slams checks such as Salamence and Moltres and improves Cobalion's matchup against Thundurus-T. Alternatively, Iron Head gives Cobalion a better matchup against Hatterene and Primarina, prevents Nidoqueen from walling it, and lets Cobalion potentially overwhelm checks like Hippowdon and Galarian Slowbro through flinches. Leftovers increases its longevity, giving it more chances to set up. Rocky Helmet is an alternative to punish Zarude and Scizor for using U-turn. It also provides chip damage against Choice-locked threats like Body Slam Diggersby and Outrage Zygarde-10%. Shuca Berry can be run to Cobalion beat Hippowdon and prevents it from being revenge killed by Zygarde-10%'s Thousand Arrows. However, this should only be used if the team does not have other options to overwhelm Hippowdon or deal with Zygarde-10% reliably. Safety Goggles is also an option that allows Cobalion to turn Amoonguss into setup fodder, but this should only be used in the absence of any teammates that can handle Amoonguss. Cobalion fits best on bulky offense and balance teams for its ability to punish Scizor and Zarude while threatening to wallbreak or clean up the opposition. Other entry hazard setters such as Nihilego and Hippowdon provide chip damage for Amoonguss and Celesteela. They also help check problematic foes such as Galarian Slowbro, Salamence, and Zygarde-10%. Pivots such as Azelf and Thundurus-T help Cobalion find setup opportunities against Pokemon like Chansey and Nihilego. They also help in overwhelming other checks like Primarina and Hippowdon with their coverage moves. Skarmory's Spikes can be problematic to Cobalion's longevity, so entry hazard removers like Rotom-W and Salamence are appreciated. These options are also good teammates to have against foes like Conkeldurr. Teammates like Amoonguss and Assault Vest Tangrowth can pivot into dangerous foes like Keldeo and Primarina. Amoonguss also cripples Pokemon like opposing Cobalion and Galarian Slowbro with Spore, while Tangrowth removes Heavy-Duty Boots from Salamence and opposing Amoonguss with Knock Off. Cobalion is susceptible to being revenge killed by Choice Scarf Diggersby and Zygarde-10%, so other revenge killers like Choice Scarf Hydreigon and Mamoswine are appreciated. Cobalion's ability to last throughout a game makes it an effective user of Stealth Rock, chipping away at threats like Primarina while having options to overwhelm entry hazard removers like Salamence. Cobalion has many opportunities to set up hazards, as it forces out opposing entry hazard setters like Chansey, Nihilego, and Excadrill. Close Combat is necessary for removing Excadrill and weakened Pokemon like Rotom-W. Iron Head maintains offensive pressure on the likes of Nidoqueen, Togekiss, and Hatterene; it is especially important to prevent Hatterene from denying Stealth Rock with Magic Bounce. If you're using Iron Head, Swords Dance should be the fourth moveslot to prevent Cobalion from getting countered by bulky Scizor and give it enough offensive presence to overwhelm Amoonguss and Hippowdon more easily. Swords Dance also leaves Cobalion less vulnerable to Celesteela and Nidoqueen switching in. Toxic can be used over Iron Head to cripple Salamence, Slowking, Tangrowth, and Hippowdon, preventing them from checking Cobalion in the long run and winning the entry hazard war against the former. This also opens up teammates like Zygarde-10% to more effectively work as late-game cleaners. Volt Switch is used alongside Toxic to hit targets Cobalion cannot poison, like Skarmory, Amoonguss, and Scizor, and pivot out of checks like Tangrowth and Primarina. However, this is less consistent against teams with Hippowdon. Stone Edge is an alternative over Iron Head with Swords Dance to deal with Moltres and Salamence; however, Iron Head's value against foes like Hatterene is generally preferred to help with setting Stealth Rock. Taunt can deny Hippowdon looking to heal in front of Cobalion with Slack Off as well as prevent Scizor from boosting with Swords Dance. It can also be an emergency way of preventing Salamence from removing entry hazards with Defog. Rocky Helmet is the preferred item, as this set doesn't really need to maintain its health for wallbreaking and cleaning, and it improves Cobalion's role as a countermeasure against Zarude and Scizor. However, Leftovers can still be used to improve Cobalion's longevity against foes like Nihilego. Cobalion usually runs maximum Attack investment to gain more value from its STAB moves, but a spread using 160 HP EVs with 96 Attack EVs is possible with Volt Switch + Toxic variants. This helps Cobalion play a more defensive role: it can pivot into Vanilluxe and Choice Scarf Hydreigon's STAB moves more comfortably while still OHKOing Pokemon like Mamoswine and Excadrill with Close Combat. Utility Cobalion similarly fits in balance and bulky offense teams but takes a more defensive approach as a Stealth Rock setter or disrupter. Cobalion taking up the role of a Stealth Rock setter means that there's more room for an offensive Ground-type teammate. Some examples are Zygarde-10% and Diggersby, which appreciate Cobalion's ability to overwhelm Scizor and cripple shared checks like Hippowdon and Salamence with Toxic, opening an opportunity for them to clean. Skarmory's Spikes pairs excellently with Cobalion's Stealth Rock, severely wearing down foes like Keldeo, Hippowdon, and Nidoqueen. Furthermore, Swords Dance variants of Cobalion check Scizor well enough for Skarmory to run Toxic to weaken Salamence, preventing it from functioning as long-term entry hazard removal. Alternatively, Iron Defense Skarmory can act as a dedicated answer to Scizor, leaving room for Cobalion to run Taunt and block opposing entry hazards and Defog. Galarian Slowbro is a Calm Mind user that can break apart foes that Cobalion has issues with, like Skarmory. In return, Cobalion acts as an offensive check to foes like Hydreigon and Zarude. Colbur Berry + Flamethrower Galarian Slowbro also acts as a good primary Scizor answer. Crobat and Salamence are great answers to threats like Conkeldurr and Keldeo. Notably, Crobat makes overwhelming Hippowdon and Salamence easier with Taunt while revenge killing threats like Azelf and Noivern. Other Steel-types like Celesteela compensate for Cobalion's neutrality to Fairy and Flying, notably useful against Pokemon like Togekiss and Salamence. Celesteela also greatly assists in checking revenge killers like Choice Scarf Hydreigon and Diggersby. Magnet Rise or Air Balloon alongside Swords Dance turns Excadrill and Hippowdon into complete setup fodder for a potential sweep, but this is matchup dependent. On hyper offense, Life Orb is useful for increasing Cobalion's wallbreaking capabilities enough to OHKO Slowking and Tangrowth with +2 Megahorn and Thundurus-T with an unboosted Stone Edge. Weakness Policy + Rock Polish on a three attacks set is an alternative option that takes advantage of Cobalion's good bulk and weak super effective hits like Hippowdon's Earthquake and bulky Salamence's Flamethrower to gain a staggering boost. Rock Polish is recommended to sweep teams since it avoids revenge killers like Azelf and Choice Scarf Hydreigon. Substitute + Swords Dance sets with STAB attacks take huge advantage of Pokemon that Cobalion forces out, like Scizor and Zarude. Thunder Wave is able to help cripple switch-ins like Skarmory and Noivern to make them easier to overwhelm, but it is useless against other threats like Hippowdon.
Cobalion (SV competitive strategy): Cobalion serves as one of the best Stealth Rock setters in the metagame due to its good matchups into the most common hazard removal options, Excadrill and Mandibuzz, while also being one of the best sponges for Lokix's First Impression. Volt Switch allows Cobalion to pivot out on would-be switch-ins such as Latios and Slowking and bring in a teammate to threaten them out. Thunder Wave can punish Tornadus-T and the aforementioned Latios for switching in, while Stone Edge can be used to hit Flying-types like Thundurus-T super effectively. Leftovers gives Cobalion more longevity, allowing it to check opposing threats for an extended period of time, while Rocky Helmet allows it to punish Lokix and Weavile more easily and get chip damage on other contact moves users such as Scizor and Tyranitar. Shuca Berry is another option that allows Cobalion to switch into or stay in on Earthquakes from unboosted Excadrill. Tera Dragon gives Cobalion a resistance to Water-type attacks such as Surf from Greninja, which is then OHKOed back with Close Combat, while making it neutral to Ground and preserving its Grass resistance so it can still check Ogerpon. Tera Ghost allows it to preserve Stealth Rock in the event the opposing Excadrill uses its Tera to flip the matchup while also making Cobalion neutral to Ground-type attacks and immune to Fighting-type attacks such as Low Kick from Weavile and Close Combat from Scizor and opposing Cobalion. Tera Flying gives it an immunity to Ground-type attacks, allowing it to more easily answer even a Speed-boosted Excadrill. However, Cobalion's base typing is very useful for answering threats like Lokix, Weavile, Scizor, and Tyranitar, so it should usually only Terastalize if there is no other option at the time. Cobalion fits on Volt Turn offense, bulky offense, and balance teams, utilizing its good matchups into the most common hazard removal options to keep Stealth Rock up for a solid portion of the game while using Volt Switch to bring threats onto the field. Unfortunately, Cobalion doesn't resist Flying and Psychic, so alternative checks to threats like Tornadus-T and Latios are needed. Slowking can check both Latios and Tornadus-T while also providing Thunder Wave support so Cobalion is more free to use Taunt. In return, Cobalion can switch into Lokix and Scizor, which can threaten Slowking. Pivot Tornadus-T can act as a check to Latios while using Knock Off so that foes such as Slowking and Skeledirge are susceptible to Cobalion's Stealth Rock and U-turn to continue the pivot chain. Sandy Shocks and Thundurus-T can help apply pressure on Ground-types like Rhyperior and Excadrill, as well as Cobalion checks like Hydrapple and Latios. Teammates that love Cobalion's ability to check threats like Weavile and Lokix such as Excadrill, Latios, and the previously mentioned Tornadus-T are appreciated. The latter two, alongside Grass-types like Hydrapple and Zarude, also provide a Ground resistance to help cover Cobalion's weakness. Excadrill, on the other hand, provides a Latios check that can remove hazards while also offensively checking Skeledirge and Toxapex. Choice Specs Greninja offensively pressures everything that can threaten Cobalion, and it appreciates Cobalion's ability to draw in foes and pivot on them alongside Stealth Rock for chipping Assault Vest Tornadus-T into Ice Beam range.
Ceruledge (SV competitive strategy): With Swords Dance, Weak Armor, and an excellent STAB combination, Ceruledge is a solid setup sweeper and late-game cleaner. Bitter Blade's additional benefit of allowing Ceruledge to recover HP lets it survive revenge killing attempts and gives it even more setup opportunities. Shadow Sneak allows Ceruledge to finish off faster and weakened foes like Ogerpon-W and Dragapult if Weak Armor hasn't been activated yet. Poltergeist gives Ceruledge a powerful STAB move that hits Pecharunt and neutral foes like Alomomola, Primarina, Moltres, and Dragonite. Close Combat complements its STAB moves to hit Hisuian Samurott and Garganacl, which would otherwise wall it, while giving it a strong nuke against Ting-Lu and Kyurem. Tera Blast Fairy is an option to hit foes like Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Dragonite super effectively. Solar Blade with Tera Grass can be used on sun teams to hit checks such as Alomomola and Dondozo. If Ceruledge opts to run a Jolly nature, it can outspeed Gholdengo as well as, after a Weak Armor boost, +1 Iron Valiant, but it causes Ceruledge to miss out on KOs Adamant would otherwise net such as guaranteed OHKOing Garganacl with a +2 Close Combat. Life Orb augments Ceruledge's damage output while also working well with Bitter Blade to offset the recoil; in particular, this lets Ceruledge threaten OHKOs against the likes of Gliscor and Zapdos with +2 Poltergeist. Focus Sash allows Ceruledge to withstand attacks from faster foes such as Great Tusk, Ogerpon-W, and Zamazenta, as well as revenge killing attempts from Kingambit, and combines with Weak Armor to outspeed the aforementioned physical attackers on the next turn. Air Balloon and Heavy-Duty Boots are other options that make Ceruledge less reliant on keeping entry hazards off the field, with Air Balloon often forcing Pokemon like Landorus-T and Great Tusk to hit Ceruledge with U-turn and Ice Spinner respectively, activating Ceruledge's Weak Armor in the process. Tera Ghost enhances the strength of Poltergeist and Shadow Sneak while also allowing Ceruledge to remove its weaknesses to Water- and Ground-type attacks from common foes such as Ogerpon-W and Great Tusk. When running Close Combat, Tera Fighting is recommended to enhance its power, notably letting Ceruledge secure an OHKO on Ting-Lu after a Swords Dance. Tera Fighting also grants Ceruledge a Dark resistance, allowing it to turn the tables on Dark-type foes like Kingambit and Darkrai. Ceruledge's offensive tools means it best fits on hyper offense teams where it finds its home as a sweeper that appreciates entry hazards and the presence of other sweepers such as Dragonite, Zamazenta, Gholdengo, and Darkrai. Great Tusk and Iron Treads are excellent partners; both offer reliable hazard control to keep Ceruledge's Focus Sash intact, while Ceruledge can eliminate their common checks. Ceruledge also pairs well with hazard setters such as Glimmora and Hisuian Samurott, which can allow Ceruledge to secure KOs it would fall short of, especially when utilizing a Jolly nature, such as OHKOing Ting-Lu and Garganacl with a +2 non-Tera Fighting Close Combat. Additionally, Ceruledge can deny Rapid Spin from opposing Iron Treads and Great Tusk while threatening Corviknight. Ceruledge generally appreciates special sweepers such as Calm Mind Iron Valiant and Raging Bolt, threatening its checks and counters such as Garganacl and Dragonite. In return, Ceruledge can handle Blissey and Galarian Slowking, which would otherwise deny a sweep from these special sweepers. Ceruledge is also a consideration on sun teams alongside a setter in Ninetales or Torkoal, since Ceruledge becomes extremely threatening with sun-boosted Bitter Blade paired with Solar Blade, the latter of which rips apart its usual checks in Great Tusk and Alomomola. Walking Wake and Ceruledge form a nearly unwallable duo, as Walking Wake can deal heavy damage to Pokemon that would otherwise wall Ceruledge like Dragonite and Zamazenta. Other sun partners such as Slither Wing and Hatterene provide pivoting and other utility that can support a Ceruledge sweep. Another hyper offense archetype Ceruledge can fit on is Sticky Web teams with setters like Ribombee and Araquanid. On these teams, Ceruledge acts as a spinblocker and sweeper that pairs excellently with its previously mentioned teammates. Ceruledge is a terrifying sweeper, particularly good against balance teams, with Bulk Up, the longevity from Bitter Blade, and a unique set of traits catered to take advantage of common balance team staples such as Garganacl and Alomomola. Shadow Sneak allows Ceruledge to pick off faster targets like Dragapult and Deoxys-S. Taunt shuts down status moves that would otherwise deny a Ceruledge sweep, such as Gliscor's Toxic, Zamazenta's and Moltres's Roar, and Alomomola's Tickle. It also denies recovery from Garganacl and Pecharunt. With Covert Cloak, powerful secondary effects from moves such as Pecharunt's Malignant Chain, Garganacl's Salt Cure, Hatterene's Psychic Noise and Nuzzle, and, after Ceruledge has Terastallized, Alomomola's Scald are nullified, making it more difficult to wear down Ceruledge. Tera Bug lets Ceruledge take on Ground-types such as Great Tusk, Iron Treads, and Gliscor while not being weak to their common coverage options. Flash Fire further complements Tera Bug, nullifying its Fire weakness and most sources of burn that would otherwise cripple a Terastallized Ceruledge. The given EV spread lets Ceruledge outspeed Gliscor while maximizing special bulk to complement Bulk Up's Defense boosting. Ceruledge is commonly found on hyper offense teams, most notably Aurora Veil teams that have a poor matchup into balance teams. Ceruledge itself is a great support for these hyper offense teams because with Taunt, it denies Defog attempts from Galarian Weezing and Corviknight. With Aurora Veil, Ceruledge is given opportunities to get multiple boosts. Special attackers such as Darkrai and Deoxys-S can apply pressure to Dondozo and Landorus-T, which would give Ceruledge trouble. Entry hazard control, provided by the likes of Great Tusk, Iron Treads, and Hatterene, is required to ensure Ceruledge does not get worn down by hazards. In return, Ceruledge can defeat Alomomola, which walls Great Tusk and Iron Treads, and Galarian Slowking, which gives Hatterene trouble. Other physical attackers, such as Dragon Dance Dragonite and Kyurem and Swords Dance Gliscor and Ogerpon-W, complement Ceruledge's balance-breaking capabilities by threatening checks to Ceruledge. Dragonite's Multiscale and set variety make it strong into offensive Pokemon that Ceruledge struggles against. It can set up on Ogerpon-W, and both Tera Normal Extreme Speed and Scale Shot variants are exceptional at cleaning up offensive teams. Tera Blast sets, though, have the strongest synergy with Ceruledge, as they are able to surprise threats like Zamazenta. Kyurem can threaten Dragonite and Zapdos with its powerful Icicle Spear, especially after a Dragon Dance boost. Gliscor can take on Glimmora and Landorus-T, and Ogerpon-W can also break Glimmora while taking on Dondozo with its Grass-type attacks. In return, they all appreciate Ceruledge's ability to beat their checks, such as Gliscor, Garganacl, and Pecharunt. Zamazenta provides speed control, outrunning most of the metagame bar Dragapult and Deoxys-S, allowing it to threaten Darkrai and Ogerpon-W. In return, Ceruledge is a check to Pecharunt and Alomomola, both of which Zamazenta is walled by. Additionally, Knock Off support from the aforementioned Great Tusk, Ogerpon-W, and Gliscor is appreciated to remove Rocky Helmet from Landorus-T and Alomomola that would wear down Ceruledge.
Grimmsnarl (SS competitive strategy): Due to Prankster, Taunt, and a resistance to Calyrex-S's Astral Barrage, Grimmsnarl carves out a niche in the AG metagame as the most reliable dual screens setter, enabling dangerous offensive threats to set up easily. Play Rough outdamages Roost from the Taunt-immune support Yveltal, preventing it from Defogging Grimmsnarl's screens away, while damaging Calyrex-S and Zygarde. Taunt prevents Defog from Ho-Oh and entry hazards—especially Sticky Web and Toxic Spikes, which offensive teams can otherwise struggle with—while also preventing setup from sweepers such as Necrozma-DM, Groudon, and Zygarde-C. The given EV spread enables Grimmsnarl to survive Zacian-C's Behemoth Blade behind Reflect. Grimmsnarl fits best on offensive teams where dangerous sweepers like Zacian-C and Xerneas can take advantage of its screens support, which helps them set up easily and avoid being revenge killed by Choice Scarf Calyrex-S or Ditto. In turn, Grimmsnarl appreciates teammates that prevent easy Defogs such as Groudon, Stone Edge Necrozma-DM, and Zekrom, which can also setup and appreciate the protection from revenge killing. Furthermore, Grimmsnarl requires bulky teammates that can switch into Xerneas, Zacian-C, and Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM; it cannot safely use Taunt to block their setup as they OHKO Grimmsnarl without the relevant screen. As such, Zacian-C, Necrozma-DM, and Zekrom are recommended teammates. They can take attacks quite well, allowing Grimmsnarl to easily swap out to come back in later for a second round of screens. Thunder Wave is usable in the third moveslot in order to punish Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM, Geomancy Xerneas, and Swords Dance Zacian-C, which may try set up on Grimmsnarl, while acting as a blanket form of speed control for foes such as Calyrex-S. However, it is not recommended, as without Play Rough, Grimmsnarl is completely unable to punish Defog support Yveltal.
Grimmsnarl (SV competitive strategy): Grimmsnarl is a threatening sweeper thanks to its ability to set up and use Substitute with priority because of Prankster. Thanks to its ability, Grimmsnarl can invest fully in its bulk, allowing it to take multiple hits before fainting. Grimmsnarl's STAB combination is also difficult to switch into, as it's unresisted by the entire tier. Sucker Punch helps Grimmsnarl pick off fast frail Pokemon like Kilowattrel and Salazzle. Substitute allows it to take advantage of walls like Milotic, Gastrodon, and Bellibolt, letting it ignore status and set up freely. On top of this, it also helps Grimmsnarl scout Choice-locked Pokemon like Florges and Duraludon. Tera Steel grants it a resistance to Fairy-type attacks, as well as gaining a multitude of other resistances, notably helping Grimmsnarl versus Toxtricity's Boomburst, Staraptor's Brave Bird, and Bronzong's Heavy Slam. Similarly, Tera Poison helps Grimmsnarl take on Fairy-type attacks from Florges, but it trades Tera Steel's wide array of resistances for a resistance to common Fighting-type attacks from faster Pokemon like Heracross and Flamigo. However, it now has to deal with super effective Psychic Noise from both Scream Tail and Florges. Due to having to rely on Sucker Punch to hit Steel-types like Alolan Sandslash, Grimmsnarl commonly struggles against them; because of this, Grimmsnarl appreciates teammates that can pressure them like Salazzle, Delphox, and Golurk. Grimmsnarl's Substitute is easily broken by powerful wallbreakers like Paldean Tauros-F and Staraptor, or it can be ignored by Toxtricity. So, Milotic, Bellibolt, and Bronzong make for great partners, being able to check these strong offensive threats. Grimmsnarl easily takes advantage of and sets up against special attacking walls like Gastrodon and Bellibolt. In order to get Grimmsnarl in against these Pokemon, it must be paired with teammates that force these walls in and can pivot like Grafaiai and Flamigo. Grimmsnarl, due to being slow and having to rely on Sucker Punch to take care of faster threats, likes to have cleaners alongside it such as Choice Scarf users like Staraptor, Rotom-C, and Bruxish to finish up games after it's beaten the bulkier Pokemon. Grimmsnarl also struggles with sweeping early-game, so wallbreakers like Meloetta, Paldean Tauros-F, and Hariyama pair well to overwhelm shared checks such as Coalossal, Mudsdale, and Qwilfish. Scream Tail and Florges are both annoyances for Grimmsnarl, as they can both lock it into a move with Encore and Trick, respectively. In order to deal with these threats, partners like Skuntank, Salazzle, and Toxtricity work well in tandem with Grimmsnarl.
Simisear (BW competitive strategy): Simisear is a powerhouse of a wallbreaker in PU. With a strong Flamethrower, Simisear can find itself 2HKOing even Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks such as Huntail. Simisear even has a great base Speed stat at 101, outspeeding the vast majority of Pokemon in the format. However, Simisear's lack of good coverage options leaves it vulnerable to being walled, and its general lack of bulk and weakness to Stealth Rock means that it can get worn down quickly. Flamethrower is the go-to STAB option that can 2HKO a surprising amount of offensive Pokemon, like Huntail, with the help of Choice Specs. Focus Blast is coverage for choice specially defensive walls such as Zweilous. Hidden Power Electric is for hitting Water-types, such as Frillish and Tentacool, for good damage. Overheat is the last option primarily because Simisear does not have much more meaningful coverage, and it works as a last-resort nuke, pulling off impressive feats such as always OHKOing Stoutland after Stealth Rock damage. Simisear can also use the same set with a Choice Scarf to become a formidable revenge killer that outspeeds all other common revenge killers, but the general ease of stopping Choice Scarf Simisear by common walls such as Tentacool, Audino, and Zweilous generally makes the Choice Specs variant more popular and effective, as Simisear becomes much harder to wall and naturally boasts a respectable Speed stat. Simisear doesn't have much in the way of bulk or defensive synergy, so Pokemon such as Klang and Jumpluff that can bring Simisear in safely via Volt Switch or U-turn are valuable partners. Simisear also loves entry hazards from partners such as Bronzor and Dwebble to help wear down walls. Simisear is also excellent for wearing down certain walls such as Stunfisk, Bronzor, and Vileplume, so teammates such as Zebstrika, Torterra, and Golduck appreciate its wallbreaking. Simisear also sometimes struggles to get past certain threats like Tentacool and Grumpig, so partners like Zebstrika and Shiftry can be excellent choices for offensive synergy. Simisear's weakness to Stealth Rock can also limit its longevity, so hazard control options like Tentacool and Natu can be helpful. Natu in particular can make for a good partner, as its slow U-turn is an excellent way to bring Simisear in safely. With Nasty Plot and the near perfect coverage Flamethrower and Focus Blast give, Simisear becomes a powerful setup wallbreaker. Salac Berry is chosen as the go-to item for giving a Speed boost after two uses of Substitute for a potential sweep, and this is possible thanks to Gluttony. The 4 EVs into HP are important in order to have Simisear's HP divisible by 4, which lets two Substitute uses or one Substitute use after switching into Stealth Rock leave Simisear at exactly 50% HP for Salac Berry activation. Life Orb is also a good option for even more power, being able to OHKO Audino at +2 with Focus Blast; the ability should be changed to Blaze in this case, as Gluttony loses its use. Salac Berry Simisear ideally activates its item after using Nasty Plot and setting up a Substitute in order to make a difficult-to-contest sweep. In order to make this happen, partners such as Zebstrika and Natu are key for their ability to bring in Simisear safely with Volt Switch or U-turn. Simisear also forces many switches, which give plenty of opportunities to set up Substitute and also rack up damage from entry hazards set up by partners like Rampardos and Maractus. Nasty Plot Simisear has an easier time getting around certain counters like Frillish that Choice Specs sets can struggle on but is easier to check with certain threats like Rapidash. In that sense, Nasty Plot Simisear loves faster sweepers like Zebstrika and Shell Smash Huntail that can both threaten those checks and make use of the holes it creates.
Simisear (XY competitive strategy): Simisear is a threatening special attacking sweeper thanks to its high Speed and alright Special Attack. It has decent coverage and a good mix of attacking stats, making it a viable special sweeper and wallbreaker, but Simisear faces competition from other Fire-types, such as Rapidash, and it's outclassed by Ninetales in many aspects, because Simisear is less bulky, but it is viable for the higher damage output it provides and the Fighting-type coverage. Unfortunately, Simisear is easily worn down due of its mediocre bulk and lack of recovery; it also has a bad defensive typing that makes it struggle against entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock. Simisear can be easily revenge killed by faster Pokemon, such as Zebstrika and Floatzel. Nasty Plot is Simisear's only setup move, and it gives Simisear an immediate +2 Special Attack boost. Fire Blast is very powerful and preferred over Flamethrower for the power. Focus Blast is for coverage to hit Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks, helping against Rock- and Ground-types, such as Probopass and Gabite respectively, which can be threatening. Grass Knot is another coverage move to hit Water- and Ground-types, such as Simipour and Golem. Running maximum Speed and Special Attack investment allows Simisear to be as fast and powerful as possible. A Timid nature is preferred over Modest; although it has less power, but outspeeding base 100 Speed Pokemon, such as Dodrio and Ninetales, is very important. Life Orb boosts Simisear's power, especially with Blaze, and it can allow Simisear to threaten Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks with its STAB move, but Life Orb makes Simisear less durable because of the recoil, though it's still the best option. Blaze allows Simisear to fire off insanely powerful Fire Blasts before it faints, and behind a Substitute it is very threatening, although not very reliable. Simisear is difficult to use because it rarely finds any space to set up a Nasty Plot, so it's preferred to set up late-game when its checks and counters are already weakened. Simisear can actually set up early-game and work as a wallbreaker, threatening Pokemon such as Audino in the case you already have another win condition. Be sure to remove all checks and counters, such as Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks or special walls including Rapidash and Grumpig. Simisear should be switched in on a predicted move or with a slow Volt Switch or U-turn. Don't forget how frail Simisear is, so make sure to avoid any statuses, and be sure to remove entry hazards before bringing Simisear in. Because it is frail, Simisear should also only set up on switches or weak attacks. Entry hazards support from Pokemon such as Roselia and Probopass is greatly appreciated by Simisear to help wear down its checks. Managing entry hazard control when running Simisear in a team is important, as it is weak to entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock, so Rapid Spin and Defog users such as Armaldo and Pelipper make for good partners. Sticky Web is a good option to slow down fast Pokemon such as Zebstrika or Kadabra and revenge killers, especially Choice Scarf users, such as Mr. Mime and Sawsbuck, that try to stop Simisear from sweeping, therefore Leavanny or Smeargle are good teammates. Grass-types, such as Leafeon, Tangela, and Roselia, can handle Water- and Ground-types such as Politoed for Simisear. Fire Blast allows Simisear to be threatening, considering that even Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks cannot switch into it too many times. Grass Knot is for coverage, allowing Simisear to threaten Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks, such as Golem and Chinchou. Focus Blast allows Simisear to threaten many specially bulky Pokemon, including Audino and Zweilous. Taunt can be useful to limit the effectiveness of leads, such as Leavanny and Glalie, that rely on setting up entry hazards. Knock Off deals heavy damage to Grumpig and cripples Eviolite users such as Clefairy, whereas Rock Slide helps Simisear against Fire-types such as Ninetales and Rapidash. Maximum Speed and Special Attack investment is used to outspeed all base 100 Speed Pokemon, such as Dodrio and Ninetales, and to have as much power as possible. The residual 4 EVs are put into Attack. A Hasty nature increases Simisear's Speed without lowering its Attack. Life Orb is the best item option due to the power boost; when combined with Blaze, it allows Simisear to threaten Pokemon that resist Fire-type attacks with Fire Blast However, it also makes Simisear less durable because of its recoil. Blaze allows Simisear to fire off insanely powerful Fire Blasts before it faints, and behind a Substitute it is very threatening, although it's not very reliable. Mixed Simisear particularly shines mid-game thanks to its ability to punch through the enemy team with its coverage moves, therefore opening holes for other team members. Be sure to not reveal your physical moves early, as there is a chance to lure in and cripple Pokemon such as Swanna and Chinchou. Simisear is very frail and can be quickly worn down by Stealth Rock and Life Orb recoil, so avoid switching it into all but the weakest attacks. Simisear can't take priority attacks and doesn't do well when statused. Be sure to remove entry hazards before Simisear comes in. Simisear appreciates being on offensively oriented teams in general because they have way more ways to make use of its ability to wallbreak. It also appreciates entry hazard removal because it has a glaring Stealth Rock weakness, so Defog and Rapid Spin users are good teammates. Setup sweepers appreciate the wallbreaking provided by Simisear. Entry hazard support itself, especially Toxic Spikes, is appreciated, because it eases Simisear's job in dealing with troublesome walls. Hidden Power Electric can be used for hitting Simisear's common checks, such as Pelipper and Swanna. Simisear with Taunt could be a great stall breaker. A SubSalac set, along with Blaze, can make Simisear a very fast and threatening sweeper against unprepared teams, and with this variant, Gluttony can also be used, as it makes Simisear eat the berry as fast as possible and therefore have slightly more HP.
Simisear (SM competitive strategy): Simisear is one of the best setup stallbreakers the tier has to offer due to its high Special Attack and Speed, fantastic coverage options, and ability to shut down passive foes such as Pyukumuku and Gourgeist- with Taunt; furthermore, it can also function as a fast late-game setup sweeper. Simisear is able to generate free turns for it to set up with Nasty Plot, and afterwards, not even Fire-resistant Pokemon such as Altaria and Silvally-Water appreciate switching into it. However, setting up with Simisear can be quite difficult due to its poor defensive typing, lackluster bulk, and susceptibility to all forms of entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock. In addition, Simisear, while still quite fast, is outsped by a multitude of Pokemon such as Zebstrika, Floatzel, Purugly, and nearly every relevant Choice Scarf user. Lastly, Simisear mandates team support such as entry hazard removal and switch-ins into offensive Water- and Dragon-types, which limits teambuilding even more considering Simisear is only able to fit on balance and offensive teams. Nasty Plot allows Simisear to effectively take on the role of a wallbreaker and potential late-game cleaner. Fire Blast is Simisear's strongest reliable STAB option, demolishing threats such as Swords Dance Pinsir, Gourgeist-XL, and Metang. Taunt shuts down non-attacking moves from Pokemon such as Pyukumuku, Bronzor, and Dusclops. Substitute shields Simisear from status, as well as potentially generating free turns against Pokemon such as U-turn Silvally formes to set up with Nasty Plot. Hidden Power Ice nails Dragon-types, such as Gabite, Hakamo-o, and most importantly Altaria. Grass Knot is Simisear's best option for certain Water-, Rock-, and Ground-types such Silvally-Water, Golem, and Marowak. Focus Blast is an alternative option for still hitting Rock-types such as Golem and Rampardos while also nailing Normal-types such as non-Choice Scarf Silvally, Regigigas, Komala, and Bouffalant. A Timid nature is preferred over a Modest one so Simisear can outspeed key threats such as maximum Speed Silvally formes, Swanna, and Leafeon. Blaze can situationally allow Simisear to pick up KOs it wouldn't otherwise be able to achieve. Firium Z turns Fire Blast into an immensely powerful Inferno Overdrive, picking up important KOs such as on Assault Vest Komala and physically defensive Altaria at +2 after Stealth Rock most of the time. Life Orb can be run if one of Simisear's teammates is already utilizing a Z-Crystal of their own. Fightinium Z is a third item option that more reliably helps bring down bulky Normal-types such as Lickilicky while maintaining solid neutral coverage against Water- and Rock-types such as Silvally-Water and Golem without fear of missing. From Team Preview and the lead matchup, one should determine whether it is best to use Simisear as a wallbreaker earlier in the game to break down threats that stop its teammate from sweeping or as a sweeper itself. Simisear variants utilizing either Firium Z or Fightinium Z should also evaluate if there are any specific targets they should be reserved for. Not wasting Simisear's all-important Z-Move early is an important factor in breaking or sweeping. If running Substitute, Simisear can purposefully lower its health to bring it within Blaze activation range. However, Simisear should be wary of priority users and faster Pokemon while in range of Blaze, as they can usually knock it out. Simisear's bulk is exceedingly poor, so trading big hits off on the opponent's Pokemon such Assault Vest Bouffalant always becomes a question of risk versus reward, especially earlier in the game when Simisear has a lot of potential to do well later in the game. Sometimes sacrificing Simisear is a great way to pick up momentum back from the game, especially after Simisear has broken down or completely dismantled its intended target. As a setup sweeper that focuses more on late-game, Simisear should always look for opportunities to switch in and safely set up with Nasty Plot, as without at least one boost, Simisear is nowhere near as threatening. Entry hazard setters such as Crustle, Golem, and Mareanie help weaken the opposing team, which allows Simisear to more adequately perform its role of a late-game cleaner. Conversely, entry hazard removers such as Komala, Altaria, and Silvally-Water can Rapid Spin or Defog away Stealth Rock away for Simisear, which otherwise undermines its health and reduces its capabilities to reliably set up with Nasty Plot and clean. Simisear can incinerate Grass-types such as Bellossom and Leafeon early- to mid-game to give ample setup opportunities for another sweeper such as Bulk Up Floatzel. Having teammates to switch into and break down some of the Pokemon Simisear finds hardest to defeat on its own eases pressure off it. Altaria is one of the biggest obstacles for non-Hidden Power Ice variants of Simisear to face, so teammates such as Choice Band Komala and Golem that can defeat Altaria one-on-one make great teammates. Rotom-S can switch into Choice Scarf Swanna, and the previously mentioned Silvally-Water can reliably switch into Floatzel, so both pair nicely with Simisear, as Swanna and Floatzel threaten to take it out with Scald and Liquidation, respectively. Physical wallbreakers such as Choice Band Komala and Floatzel can help break down specially defensive walls such as Lickilicky that spell trouble for Simisear. Choice Band Komala in particular is helpful for being able to slow pivot into Simisear, which allows Simisear to switch in safely without having to fear taking a massive hit. A Salac Berry can be utilized in combination with Gluttony to attempt to reap the benefits of a standard Nasty Plot Simisear and an additional Speed boost. Simisear is weak to Stealth Rock and does not necessitate the use of Substitute necessarily as much, giving way for an open moveslot to fill with another coverage move such as Hidden Power Ice. However, Simisear has difficulty both setting up a Nasty Plot while getting itself into Salac Berry activation range, even with factors such as Substitute, Gluttony, and Stealth Rock. This is attributed to Simisear's unimpressive bulk and lack of any notable resistances to help aid its setup. Flamethrower is more accurate and has more PP than Fire Blast. However, Simisear's damage output without Fire Blast is noticeably lower, and in many cases, what would have been OHKOs turn into 2HKOs such as +2 Flamethrower versus Altaria after Stealth Rock. A specially biased mixed set with Superpower acts as an effective lure for bulkier Normal-types such as Lickilicky, Assault Vest Komala, and Kecleon without necessitating a Nasty Plot boost and relying on the inaccurate Focus Blast. However, Life Orb recoil may indicate to the opponent that Simisear is indeed mixed, ruining the surprise factor to some degree. The combination of entry hazard and Life Orb recoil is also not ideal, making a mixed set not worthwhile. Rock Slide may also seem like a decent coverage move on a mixed set, as it gives Simisear a reliable option versus opposing Fire-types and rounds out Simisear's coverage quite well while still hitting Altaria super effectively. However, Rapidash and Choice Scarf Oricorio-F both outspeed Simisear, meaning the coverage Rock Slide actually provides actually only comes in against non-Choice Scarf Oricorio-F and opposing Simisear in Speed ties. Simisear could utilize Z-Sunny Day to boost its Speed and use Solar Beam or just fire off an extremely strong STAB attack. However, this leaves Simisear in a tough position against Fire-types such as Morning Sun Rapidash and Dragon-types such as Silvally-Dragon and the specially bulky Altaria. Solar Beam + Grassium Z gives up the boost in Speed, the effects of sun, and the reliability of its Grass coverage for a one-time Grass-type nuke and the ability to fit Hidden Power Ice. However, such a set still struggles with Fire-types as well as specially bulky Normal-types such as Komala and Lickilicky now that Simisear no longer possesses Firium Z. Choice Scarf Simisear packs a lot of firepower behind it and would be a decent Choice Scarf user. However, it faces immense competition with Simipour and Simisage, which don't possess a weakness to Stealth Rock, as well as Rapidash, which is an even faster Choice Scarf Fire-type option than Simisear.
Seismitoad (BW competitive strategy): in the tier: Golem, Piloswine, Golurk, Regirock, and Armaldo, all of with a Relaxed nature. Major threats such as Braviary, Charizard, and Mandibuzz hate having to lose so much of their HP when they switch in, hard when factoring in rain and the Life Orb boost. Earth Power is used to hit Garbodor & other Ground-weak Pokemon hard, though Earthquake is stronger against Roselia. Finally, Stealth Rock is an extremely useful move
Seismitoad (XY competitive strategy): Thanks to its excellent Water / Ground typing and ability granting it an immunity to Electric- and Water-type moves, Seismitoad is able to function as a reliable Stealth Rock setter, excelling against the likes of non-Toxic Alomomola and opposing Stealth Rock setters such as Rhyperior. With access to Scald and Toxic, it is able to cripple common Defoggers, and its decent bulk allows it to switch into many physical attackers. Its wide coverage options also make offensive sets viable, although it is hindered by its mediocre Special Attack and 4x weakness to Grass. Notably, it struggles against the likes of Venusaur and Virizion, both of which can freely switch in on it. Seismitoad's ability to reliably get up Stealth Rock makes it essential on this set. Scald is one of the obligatory STAB moves, with an additional 30% chance to burn the foe. Earthquake is the secondary STAB move, hitting Registeel, Jolteon, Drapion, and Jellicent, and is preferred over Earth Power for its ability to OHKO Jolteon and deal more damage to Registeel. Alternatively, Toxic puts defensive walls, such as Alomomola, Slowking, Jellicent, and bulky Grass-types on a timer. Knock Off can cripple bulkier and offensive Pokemon alike by removing their item. Maximum HP and Defense investment is used with a Bold nature so that Seismitoad can take on physical attackers effectively by maximizing physical bulk. However, shifting some EVs to Special Defense is an option so Seismitoad can tank hits from Magneton and Diancie better. Water Absorb is used as the ability to deter opposing Pokemon from using Water-type attacks, allowing this set to function excellently against rain teams. Leftovers is used as the item to provide passive recovery. Switch Seismitoad into resisted moves or non-Choice Band physical attackers to set up Stealth Rock or spread status. Try to wear down opposing walls with Knock Off and Toxic to pave the way for a teammate to sweep late-game. Keep Seismitoad away from Grass-types, as they can all OHKO it, but if you have a dedicated Grass-resistant Pokemon of your own, your opponent might sometimes go for a different coverage option or double switch their Pokemon. However, high-risk plays such as leaving Seismitoad in should only be made if you would lose too much momentum or have a severe matchup disadvantage otherwise. Seismitoad can also stop VoltTurn cores by absorbing Volt Switch from the likes of Jolteon and Magneton, but be wary of a potential Hidden Power Grass from both. This set especially dislikes status, since it can quickly wear Seismitoad down and turn 3HKOs into 2HKOs, so keep it away from poison and burn. Scald is the obligatory STAB move, with a 30% chance to burn the foe, making it Seismitoad's best option for hitting physical attackers. Earth Power is the secondary STAB move, hitting Registeel and Diancie super effectively and Venusaur neutrally. Substitute allows Seismitoad to avoid detrimental status, scout a foe's moveset, and sometimes achieve more than one KO, as it can let Seismitoad easily take Pokemon that would otherwise cripple it, such as Alomomola, on one-on-one. Toxic is the preferred option in the last moveslot, crippling bulky Water- and Grass-types that like to switch in on Seismitoad more reliably than Scald. Finally, Endeavor is an option for Seismitoad to weaken or pick off slower Pokemon while behind its Substitute and can also put faster offensive threats in range of priority. Maximum Special Attack investment allows Seismitoad to deal as much damage as possible, and maximum Speed investment and a Timid nature allow it to put in a Substitute against most defensive Pokemon and outspeed threats such as Adamant Gallade, Sawk, Adamant Absol, Choice Specs Magneton, Substitute Braviary, and Choice Band Emboar. Leftovers is the preferred item the majority of the time, providing passive recovery, which is essential to maintaining Seismitoad's longevity behind a Substitute. Alternatively, Salac Berry allows it to function as a late-game sweeper once it can no longer put in Substitutes, as it allows it to outspeed Jolteon, Aerodactyl, Sneasel, and Choice Scarf Emboar. Water Absorb is used as the ability to ease switching in on opposing Water-types. Avoid switching Seismitoad in on potential status-inducing moves, which drastically decrease the effectiveness of this set, rendering Substitute practically useless. As such, bring it in on resisted hits or a predicted utility move, such as Wish or Stealth Rock. Set up Substitute on Pokemon that don't threaten Seismitoad; common examples are bulky Water-types and defensive walls that rely on status, such as Alomomola. A benefit of having maximum Speed investment is that this set can bluff a defensive spread, lure Choice Specs Magneton trying to go for Hidden Power Grass, and eliminate it with Earth Power. Water-, Ground-, and Rock-types, such as Alomomola, Flygon, and Diancie, make for good partners, as they appreciate Seismitoad's ability to lure Grass- and Water-types and threaten or eliminate them. Fletchinder especially benefits from this set's ability to weaken its common checks, notably Alomomola and Diancie. Pokemon like Venusaur, Garbodor, and Braviary that take on the Grass-types that force Seismitoad out also synergize well with it. Magneton is able to deal with Pokemon this set struggles to break, such as Golbat and Venusaur. Clerics such as Diancie, Mega Audino, and Aromatisse can heal this set of any status, which is especially detrimental to it. Mega Audino has the added bonus of being able to switch in on Venusaur before it Mega Evolves thanks to Regenerator. Rocky Helmet is an option on the defensive set to punish physical attackers, specifically U-turn pivots, but this is generally inferior to the passive recovery provided by Leftovers. An offensive set with Life Orb and Swift Swim is an option for rain teams, taking advantage of Seismitoad's coverage options. Finally, an offensive Stealth Rock set can be used but largely decreases its ability to get it up reliably due to fewer opportunities to switch in.
Seismitoad (SM competitive strategy): Seismitoad provides a lot of utility for teams that appreciate its ability to set up Stealth Rock and provide a useful Water and Electric immunity. Additionally, its bulk and typing let it check Pokemon like Incineroar, Garbodor, and Aerodactyl and beat opposing entry hazard setters like Rhydon and Steelix. Furthermore, Seismitoad has good flexibility with its sets; it can bypass Xatu with Waterium Z-boosted Hydro Pump, or it can utilize a Substitute + Toxic set to deal with Water- and Grass-types like Vaporeon and Dhelmise. However, Seismitoad's longevity can be an issue, as its bulk isn't great, and it's only source of recovery is Leftovers, which makes it vulnerable to Incineroar's Knock Off. Seismitoad is also extremely vulnerable to Grass-types and Grass-type coverage from the likes of Delphox, forcing it to switch out and give up momentum against such threats. Additionally, Seismitoad must run a defensive set to reliably switch into threats like Incineroar and Aerodactyl, whose power enables them to easily break non-defensive sets, which leaves it almost hopeless against Xatu. Seismitoad is a decent Stealth Rock user by virtue of its natural bulk and ability to pressure other entry hazard setters in the tier such as Steelix, Garbodor, and Palossand. Scald is the Water-type STAB move of choice due to its decent chance to burn the foe, which can be detrimental to a lot of Pokemon such as Dhelmise and Druddigon. Refresh allows Seismitoad to cure itself of status ailments such as Toxic, which helps improve its longevity. It also allows Seismitoad to pivot into Pokemon like Blastoise and Vaporeon knowing it can stall them out of Toxic PP while absorbing their Water-type STAB moves. Earthquake hits threats like Delphox, Heliolisk, and defensive Garbodor significantly harder than Earth Power would, notably being strong enough to KO Heliolisk. Alternatively, Toxic gives Seismitoad the ability to cripple Pokemon like Slowking, Alolan Exeggutor, and Vaporeon, which fear very little from Seismitoad's STAB moves and don't care about being burned that much, and the latter is immune to Scald due to Water Absorb. The given Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow Seismitoad to outpace Incineroar and Xatu. The rest of the EVs are invested into physical bulk to allow Seismitoad to check Pokemon like Incineroar and Aerodactyl better. Leftovers gives Seismitoad the passive recovery it requires to consistently keep pivoting into these threats. Water Absorb provides Seismitoad with an immunity to Water-type coverage from Pokemon like Blastoise and Vaporeon to potentially provide Seismitoad with another way to recover its health when hit by said coverage. An EV spread of 252 HP / 216 Def / 40 Spe with a Bold nature can be run to give Seismitoad more defensive capabilities that can allow it to pivot into Pokemon like Aerodactyl more easily. The 40 Speed EVs allow Seismitoad to outspeed defensive Garbodor and 2HKO it with Earthquake. Seismitoad should aim to switch into Pokemon it can check and force out like Steelix, Palossand, and Togedemaru, securing a free opportunity to set up Stealth Rock. Seismitoad can use its ability Water Absorb and Refresh to pivot into Pokemon like Vaporeon and defensive Slowking to regain health and potentially put them on a timer with Toxic. You should look to remove Seismitoad's status immediately to prevent it from being worn down too much, especially if it can't find a free opportunity to do so later on. While Seismitoad has a good set of resistances and immunities, it should not switch into some threats like Samurott and Delphox too liberally, as they can easily threaten it with strong or super effective coverage options; they are notably effective users of Grass Knot. Similarly, Seismitoad invites Grass-types like Whimsicott and Sceptile and can only put them on a timer with Toxic before being forced out. However, Seismitoad can limit their switches with Toxic damage in conjunction with Stealth Rock chip damage, especially if utilizing Protect to get more Toxic damage off. Seismitoad is reliant on Leftovers for passive recovery, so it should avoid switching into strong physical attackers like Incineroar and Rhydon too liberally. Fire-types like Incineroar, Magmortar, and Delphox work well with Seismitoad thanks to their ability to pressure Grass-types. Incineroar is able to lure in many of its checks like Rhydon and Aerodactyl to potentially pivot out with U-turn and give Seismitoad the free turn to pressure them and set up Stealth Rock. Delphox appreciates these checks being removed too and is able to provide Wish support, which is fantastic due to Seismitoad's reliance on Leftovers. Aerodactyl is another great partner that can threaten the abundance of Grass-types in the tier while also providing a secondary check to Fire-types, which takes some pressure off Seismitoad. In return, Seismitoad is able to take the Water coverage aimed at Aerodactyl and check the bulky Ground-types that Aerodactyl struggles to break. Pursuit users such as Sneasel and the aforementioned Aerodactyl can trap and remove Xatu while also threatening it with their STAB coverage, which gives Seismitoad an easier time to set up Stealth Rock. Entry hazard removal from Pokemon like Rotom, Dhelmise, and Decidueye works well to prevent Seismitoad from getting worn down easily. These Pokemon can also pressure the bulky Water-types that Seismitoad struggles with such as Slowking, Blastoise, and opposing Seismitoad and are capable of acting as effective spinblockers. Poison-types such as Garbodor and Weezing work well with Seismitoad by pressuring Grass-types like Whimsicott, Sceptile, and Dhelmise; additionally, both can act as Toxic absorbers for Seismitoad, and Garbodor is also able to absorb Toxic Spikes, which prevents Seismitoad from having to use Refresh immediately and draining momentum. Seismitoad has an easier time setting up Stealth Rock, as it effectively threatens opposing entry hazard setters and forms of entry hazard control like Rhydon, Steelix, Xatu, and Rotom. Hydro Pump hits Pokemon like Rotom, Weezing, and Incineroar for heavy damage and weakens your opponent's team significantly if unresisted. Hydro Pump, when boosted by Waterium Z, OHKOes Xatu. Earth Power hits Pokemon like Blastoise, Druddigon, and Heliolisk that resist or are immune to Hydro Pump. Knock Off mainly makes Pokemon like Golbat and Blastoise easier to wear down, removing their Eviolite and Leftovers. Toxic is another viable fourth move, allowing Seismitoad to cripple metagame staples like Slowking, Comfey, Vaporeon, and Dhelmise. Sludge Bomb can also be used over Knock Off, as it lets Seismitoad OHKO Whimsicott and 2HKO Grass-types like Alolan Exeggutor and Sceptile while potentially crippling common switch-ins like Slowking and Decidueye. However, it is not as consistently useful as Knock Off or Toxic. 252 EVs in Speed and Special Attack with a Modest nature give Seismitoad the most firepower it can get while still outspeeding a key target in Incineroar. Waterium Z enables Seismitoad to get past entry hazard control like Xatu and Rotom by OHKOing said targets with Hydro Vortex and gives it a safe option if you don't want to worry about missing Hydro Pump. Hydro Vortex also often catches Pokemon like Weezing and Pangoro off guard thinking they can set up relatively safely. Water Absorb gives Seismitoad a Water immunity, making it a relatively safe switch-in to Water-types like Blastoise and Vaporeon and helping it check Heliolisk better. Although, players must be wary of Toxic from the aforementioned Water-types. This particular set is best used as a lead and is able to scare out a number of Pokemon. Use Seismitoad's offensive presence to force out opposing Pokemon and gain an opportunity to set up Stealth Rock, preferably as soon as possible. With Waterium Z, Seismitoad threatens common leads, often Stealth Rock users like Rhydon, Steelix, and Palossand. Predicting an incoming Golbat and going for Knock Off, thus removing its Eviolite, offers great utility for your team. In the same vein, removing an incoming Whimsicott's Choice Specs greatly reduces its damage output. This set doesn't have the bulk to take a lot of hits. Keep this in mind when switching in, even against resisted moves like Delphox's Fire Blast and Aerodactyl's Stone Edge. Try to time the usage of Hydro Vortex correctly. It has good surprise value and works best on Pokemon with uninvested special bulk like Weezing, Xatu, and Vikavolt. Other entry hazard setters like Garbodor and Ferroseed appreciate Seismitoad's ability to remove entry hazard control and checks to these Pokemon like Xatu and Rotom. Garbodor in particular forms a good entry hazard core with Seismitoad. Garbodor takes care of Grass-types, while Seismitoad gets rid of Ground-types. Seismitoad can pave the way for physically offensive Pokemon like Passimian and Togedemaru by removing checks like Weezing and Vikavolt with a potent Hydro Vortex. In return, Togedemaru helps Seismitoad deal with Rock-types and is also an answer to Flying-types, which makes up for Seismitoad's lack of a Flying resistance. Flying-types like Aerodactyl, Sigilyph, and Vivillon take care of Grass-types hindering Seismitoad. Seismitoad offers itself as a Rock-resistant and Electric-immune teammate in exchange. Substitute provides Seismitoad with a lot more opportunities to use Toxic on faster threats like Sceptile and Decidueye without fearing being KOed in the process. Additionally, Substitute allows Seismitoad to avoid being statused by Toxic from foes such as Vaporeon and Blastoise. Toxic allows Seismitoad to wear down an opposing Pokemon and cripple threats such as Decidueye and Alolan Exeggutor that it otherwise is unable to effectively punish. Scald allows Seismitoad to punish users it can't touch with Toxic, such as Weezing and Golbat; however, it can be counterproductive if it inflicts a burn on an unwanted target like Sceptile, preventing Seismitoad from being able to use Toxic on it. Earthquake allows Seismitoad to remove the likes of Heliolisk and Togedemaru as well as punish Pokemon like Garbodor from setting up entry hazards freely against Seismitoad. Protect is an option to scout for coverage and status while still racking up a turn of Toxic damage. It can also allow Seismitoad to gain a free turn of Leftovers recovery, but Seismitoad has to drop Earthquake leaving it more vulnerable when pressuring threats like Heliolisk. The given 232 Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow Seismitoad to outpace Magmortar, Decidueye, and Samurott to effectively rack up multiple turns of Toxic damage with Substitute or potentially put them on a timer as a last-ditch effort and, in the former's case, to remove it with Earthquake. The rest of the EVs are invested into bulk with a Bold nature to allow Seismitoad to still pivot into threats like Incineroar and Aerodactyl. Leftovers is vital for Seismitoad to passively recover its health, especially when it continually reduces its health with Substitute. Water Absorb grants Seismitoad an immunity to Water-type attacks, allowing it to take advantage of Pokemon like Blastoise and opposing Seismitoad. While this set can look to pivot into Pokemon it can check like Aerodactyl and Garbodor, its main goal is to spread Toxic to whittle down its switch-ins, so Seismitoad should attempt to come in on a free switch rather than take too much unnecessary damage. It is important for Seismitoad to be behind a Substitute in order to safely get a Toxic off against some of its checks such as Sceptile, Decidueye, and Alolan Exeggutor as well as beat Pokemon like Vaporeon and defensive Druddigon one-on-one, which are unable to break its Substitute or wear down Seismitoad with status like Toxic as a result. Substitute should not be used too liberally, as it is important that Seismitoad conserves enough health to pivot into threats like Aerodactyl, especially with it being reliant on Leftovers as its source of recovery. Seismitoad is also very susceptible to Knock Off for this reason. Status moves such as Toxic and Will-O-Wisp similarly hinder Seismitoad's effectiveness, so it should not switch too liberally into common status users. Water Absorb gives Seismitoad the potential to switch into Pokemon like Blastoise and opposing Seismitoad to recover lost health; however, Seismitoad has to be careful of getting poisoned by Toxic in the process. Seismitoad beating bulky Water-types is greatly appreciated by Pokemon like Magmortar and Mega Glalie, both of which are unable to effectively break past Water-types like Vaporeon and Slowking without specific coverage moves. In return, Mega Glalie and Magmortar are able to threaten Grass-types, and Mega Glalie can also set up Spikes to stack residual damage with Seismitoad's Toxic. Fire-types like Delphox and Incineroar are great partners, as they can pressure the many Grass-types like Whimsicott and Sceptile that threaten Seismitoad. Delphox also has the ability to greatly improve Seismitoad's longevity through Wish support, especially with it reducing its health with Substitute a lot. Delphox also invites Water- and Rock-types such as Vaporeon and Rhydon, which gives Seismitoad an opportunity to switch in and set up a free Substitute. Defensive Incineroar's access to a slow U-turn combined with its tendency to invite in bulky Ground-types like Rhydon helps Seismitoad secure an opportunity to come in and fire off its STAB coverage or set up a free Substitute. Incineroar also checks the many Grass-types that force out Seismitoad and appreciates Seismitoad's ability to absorb the Water coverage aimed at it in return. Other slow pivots such as Vikavolt and Xatu work well with Seismitoad, as it appreciates the safe switches in. Vikavolt also helps switch into the Grass-types that threaten Seismitoad and retaliate with its Bug-type STAB moves to remove them. Pokemon such as Samurott and Heliolisk appreciate Seismitoad luring in Grass-types like Dhelmise and Decidueye to cripple them with Toxic. Late-game cleaners such as Braviary, Comfey, and Vivillon appreciate Seismitoad's ability to cripple a multitude of Pokemon and remove Pokemon like Rotom and Togedemaru for them to sweep more easily. Knock Off is an option to cripple and remove items from item-reliant Pokemon like Golbat, Slowking, and opposing Seismitoad. A physically offensive variant of Seismitoad with Stealth Rock is an option to take advantage of its greater Attack stat with coverage options such as Ice Punch and Knock Off. However, Seismitoad lacks a physical Water-type STAB move, meaning it has to rely on its secondary STAB moves and coverage options to break through Ground-types like Palossand and Rhydon.
Sigilyph (BW competitive strategy): move that hits Escavalier, Steelix, and Ferroseed for super effective Energy Ball hits Slowking, Crawdaunt, Rhydon, and Lanturn super Pokemon such as Archeops, Cinccino, and Kabutops can take advantage of a
Sigilyph (XY competitive strategy): Sigilyph is one of the strongest Psychic-types in RU thanks to its great coverage, versatility, and access to Magic Guard. It has a solid Special Attack and good Speed, as well as a wide assortment of offensive moves that includes Psychic, Heat Wave, Energy Ball, Air Slash, and Dazzling Gleam, as well as niche options in Flash Cannon and Dark Pulse for specific threats. This allows Sigilyph to generally tailor its coverage to whatever your team might need, which is something few offensive threats can do. Sigilyph is also able to utilize a more defensive set with Calm Mind thanks to its ability Magic Guard, which allows it to push past many of its typical checks and counters. Magic Guard also makes it more annoying to take down than at first glance, as this means Sigilyph can only be damaged by direct attacks, which makes it difficult to KO in tandem with access to reliable recovery in Roost. However, Pursuit users are a common sight in RU and Sigilyph has issues with the most prominent of them, such as Spiritomb, Sneasel, and Houndoom. Sigilyph's Speed is good, but it still leaves it outpaced by key Pokemon like Delphox, Flygon, and Mega Glalie. Sigilyph also faces stiff competition from other potent Psychic-types, such as Meloetta, Delphox, and Slowking. Finally, Sigilyph has fairly exploitable weaknesses to Dark, Electric, Rock, and Ice, which can be taken advantage of by common threats, such as Diancie, Eelektross, Drapion, and Absol, should Sigilyph not be carrying the proper move to dispose of them before being hit. This set is Sigilyph's most prominent in RU, taking advantage of its great coverage options, solid Speed, and Magic Guard ability to block Life Orb recoil and all other forms of passive damage. Psyshock is the primary choice for a STAB move, as it hits Virizion, Gallade, and Assault Vest Eelektross harder than Psychic would. Heat Wave allows Sigilyph to push past bulkier Steel-type Pokemon, such as Registeel and Bronzong. Roost allows Sigilyph to heal off damage it takes upon switching in or from weaker attacks in general while it attempts to break down opposing teams. Sigilyph's final slot allows it to pressure specific defensive Pokemon more easily. Energy Ball is usually preferred to hit Alomomola and Slowking harder while also OHKOing Rhyperior and Seismitoad. Dazzling Gleam is a worthy alternative that can catch Spiritomb on the switch and hit all Dark-types at least neutrally. Psychic should be used with Dazzling Gleam to hit Rhyperior and Alomomola harder than Psyshock. Air Slash is another STAB option Sigilyph can use to keep Dark-types from having a switching in freely. Dark Pulse allows Sigilyph to beat Hoopa and heavily pressure Delphox and Meloetta. Finally, Flash Cannon is a niche option that allows Sigilyph to immediately push past Diancie should it be required. Sigilyph should always stick to a simple spread of maximum Special Attack and Speed in order to hit as hard and fast as possible. A Timid nature should always be used, as Sigilyph is only slightly faster than Pokemon that threaten it, such as Houndoom and Drapion, thus allowing it to possibly KO them if it carries the proper move. Magic Guard helps Sigilyph break through defensive teams due to being immune to Life Orb recoil and other forms of passive damage. Sigilyph should look for opportunities to switch in against passive Pokemon where it can utilize Magic Guard to absorb possible status moves; such Pokemon include Registeel, Blastoise, and Alomomola. it is quite difficult to switch into Sigilyph, so expect Sigilyph to truly shine against slower, more balanced teams that have fewer Pokemon to outspeed it. Be careful with Pursuit users, such as Spiritomb and Houndoom, and try to deny them any opportunities to switch in by using the appropriate move if Sigilyph has it. If the opposing team lacks a likely Pursuit user, Sigilyph can afford to be played much more aggressively thanks to Magic Guard shielding it from passive damage from status, Life Orb, and entry hazards. Sigilyph has a very difficult time dealing with Houndoom, as it can't OHKO it with any move whilst Houndoom can either Pursuit trap it, Sucker Punch if Sigilyph catches it with the right move on the switch, or simply use Dark Pulse on a predicted Roost. Thus, Diancie and Poliwrath make for solid teammates due to their strong matchup against Houndoom. Diancie can also set up Stealth Rock and lure in bulky Water- and Grass-type Pokemon for Sigilyph to switch into, while Poliwrath can switch into powerful Rock-type attacks from Rhyperior. Without Dark Pulse and Air Slash, Sigilyph will struggle against opposing Psychic-types, such as Delphox, Hoopa, and Meloetta. Pursuit support from Spiritomb, Sneasel, and Aerodactyl can be very beneficial for this reason. Houndoom is another option; it is immune to both of Delphox's STAB moves and also resists Hoopa's Ghost-type STAB moves. Manectric and Aerodactyl cause issues for Sigilyph, as they are faster and have super effective STAB moves to hit Sigilyph with. Mega Camerupt tends to lure in passive Water-type Pokemon and easily checks Manectric, and Aerodactyl has problems with Escavalier; hence, they make for good teammates. Virizion is a fantastic offensive partner for Sigilyph due to its resistances to Dark-, Electric-, and Rock-type moves. It also tends to be checked by bulkier Psychic-types, thus allowing both it and Sigilyph to wear down those Psychic-types for one of them to sweep. Spikes support from Accelgor, Garbodor, and Mega Glalie is appreciated to drop bulkier targets, such as Jellicent and Diancie, into KO range of the proper coverage move. Although it's not a common strategy in RU, Sigilyph can greatly benefit from Sticky Web support due to how well it performs against Pokemon slower than it. Smeargle is generally the best Sticky Web user due to being able to put an opposing Pokemon to sleep to nearly guarantee getting up Sticky Web early. This is a much different take on Sigilyph that focuses on Flame Orb and Magic Guard to push past many of Sigilyph's common checks and counters. Calm Mind allows Sigilyph to boost its Special Attack and Special Defense to high levels to deal major amounts of damage and avoid revenge killing attempts from special attackers. Psycho Shift allows Sigilyph to burn opposing physical attackers, such as Absol, Spiritomb, and Drapion, that are often used to check Sigilyph. Roost allows Sigilyph to recover HP lost from setting up on defensive Pokemon. Air Slash rounds off the set by giving Sigilyph a solid STAB move nothing is immune to. The EV spread simply maximizes Sigilyph's overall bulk while also keeping it ahead of dangerous threats such as Drapion and Houndoom that are only slightly slower than it. Magic Guard is absolutely necessary for this set to work, allowing Sigilyph to avoid the passive damage normally caused by holding Flame Orb. A more offensive EV spread of 140 HP / 116 SpA / 252 Spe can be used in order to always OHKO Virizion with Air Slash without a Calm Mind boost. Sigilyph should be brought in on passive Pokemon such as Alomomola, Registeel, and Blastoise in order to activate its Flame Orb and begin setting up. However, make sure Alomomola isn't carrying Knock Off before attempting to use it as setup bait. While Sigilyph can simply burn slower threats, such as Spiritomb and Drapion, after they switch into Sigilyph, catching faster physical attackers, such as Sneasel and Aerodactyl, as they switch in can greatly improve Sigilyph's chances to sweep later in the game. While setting up to sweep, make sure to keep Sigilyph in good enough health with Roost to endure possible revenge killing attempts. Sigilyph should generally avoid using Air Slash before it has a couple of Calm Mind boosts unless a phazer or Haze user has switched in. Even with the alternate spread, Sigilyph's damage output will generally be somewhat low until it can get a boost or two, so it's imperative to get some safe setup opportunities. Sigilyph has problems with faster Pokemon that can hit it with super effective attacks, such as Sneasel and Choice Scarf Medicham. Registeel checks Sneasel, though Low Kick will do a fair amount to it. Medicham has many issues dealing with Spiritomb due to Spiritomb's access to Pursuit and immunity to Medicham's STAB moves. Houndoom can be extremely problematic for this set if Sigilyph doesn't have many Calm Mind boosts, so Diancie and Emboar can be valuable teammates to check it reliably. Sigilyph appreciates entry hazard support, especially Spikes, to lessen the number of boosts it needs to sweep. Diancie and Rhyperior are capable of setting up Stealth Rock and they resist certain super effective moves aimed at Sigilyph. Garbodor, Qwilfish, and Mega Glalie can provide Spikes support; Mega Glalie can even weaken the opposing team with its powerful attacks. Wallbreakers such as Meloetta, Venusaur, and Absol are also quite helpful to weaken opposing defensive cores for Sigilyph to push past later. Sigilyph can use a Focus Sash set with Thunder Wave + 3 Attacks to take advantage of Magic Guard, which ensures that Sigilyph's Focus Sash isn't broken by any form of passive damage. Signal Beam is an option to hit opposing Psychic-types, especially Malamar, at least neutrally. Calm Mind can be used in a more offensive manner with a Life Orb; such a set, however, compromises Sigilyph's coverage due to mandating Roost to stay healthy. Tinted Lens normally is a fantastic ability on an offensive Pokemon like Sigilyph, but it benefits much more from Magic Guard, which lets it run Life Orb or Flame Orb easily and negates its Stealth Rock weakness. Colbur Berry can be used to lure in and take out Dark-types, but this is generally better done by Meloetta, a Psychic-type that has much more raw power than Sigilyph does. Sigilyph has a solid Speed tier for a Choice Scarf set, but it lacks a strong STAB move to power through opposing teams during the late-game. Substitute can be used in conjunction with Roost to ease prediction; however, Sigilyph's typing hinders the effectiveness of such a set. Sigilyph has access to Cosmic Power to boost both defenses and Magic Guard to avoid passive damage, but a Cosmic Power set takes too many turns to get going and is generally outclassed by the Calm Mind set, which requires much fewer turns to be threatening and can also utilize a better offensive type, Flying.
Sigilyph (SM competitive strategy): Sigilyph is one of the most versatile offensive Pokemon in NU thanks to the combination of its many great attributes. To begin, it has two fantastic abilities to aid in its offensive prowess. Magic Guard prevents indirect damage such as Stealth Rock damage, poison damage from Toxic, and Life Orb recoil, which, combined with its access to Roost, Calm Mind, and Cosmic Power, gives it great durability. Tinted Lens, meanwhile, can increase its damage output against Pokemon that resist its STAB coverage. Sigilyph also has a decent Speed tier as well as a good Special Attack stat with a very wide offensive movepool that includes Heat Wave and Energy Ball to deal with Steel-types that resist its STAB moves as well as common Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon, Seismitoad, and Steelix. Unfortunately, Sigilyph's defensive typing and Speed tier leave it vulnerable to being Pursuit trapped and threatened by faster offensive threats such as Heliolisk, Sneasel, Aerodactyl, and Mega Glalie as well as common Choice Scarf Pokemon like Passimian and Togedemaru. While it may have a high Special Attack, certain sets are walled by specially defensive Pokemon such as Slowking, Vaporeon, and Delphox. Air Slash is Sigilyph's most spammable move that can help damage Dark-type switch-ins such as Incineroar, Sneasel, and Pangoro. Heat Wave is Sigilyph's best way to deal with Steel-type Pokemon such as Steelix and Togedemaru. Energy Ball can deal with Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon, Seismitoad, and Regirock as well as bulky Water-types such as Slowking, Vaporeon, and Blastoise. Roost could also be used to keep Sigilyph healthy throughout the match and give Sigilyph more opportunities to safely switch in, such as against Golbat, Garbodor, and Vaporeon. Meanwhile, Protect can scout for Choice-locked attacks from the likes of Sneasel, Heliolisk, Aerodactyl, and Passimian as well as punish Pursuit and U-turn attempts. Psyshock is another strong STAB option to OHKO Pokemon such as Golbat, Heliolisk, and Garbodor after Stealth Rock damage. Magic Guard is Sigilyph's best ability for this set because it protects Sigilyph from indirect damage from Stealth Rock, Toxic poison, and Life Orb recoil, making Life Orb a great item choice to boost Sigilyph's power. With a Timid nature and maximum Speed investment, Sigilyph is just fast enough to outspeed Pokemon like Golbat and Rotom without Choice Scarf and fire off a strong attack. Sigilyph can come in against certain Pokemon's moves like Passimian's Close Combat, but it usually prefers not to, since it needs to be healthy enough to wallbreak throughout the match. It can also be brought in on a double switch, with the help of a pivot, or even against more passive Pokemon such as Xatu, Vaporeon, and Decidueye. Magic Guard helps Sigilyph come in more easily, since it makes it immune to Stealth Rock damage, and preserve its health, since it doesn't take Life Orb recoil. It's because of this amazing ability that Sigilyph can even be at 1% health and still be able to come in on a double switch and continue to wallbreak. Have your team set up entry hazards as soon as possible so Sigilyph can net more 2HKOs and OHKOs, making some threats like Incineroar and Sneasel much more manageable. Air Slash is the safest move to spam, since it can hit Dark-type switch-ins like Incineroar for decent damage. Since Sigilyph does force switches against Pokemon like Dhelmise and Seismitoad, it can be a good idea to go ahead and heal with Roost. If running Protect, use it to scout for Choice Scarf users like Passimian and Togedemaru. Sigilyph needs entry hazard support to help it net important OHKOs and 2HKOs. Pokemon like Rhydon, Seismitoad, and Garbodor can fit this role excellently. Garbodor can also exploit the switches that Sigilyph forces so it can set up Spikes more easily. Druddigon is also notable, since it can set up Stealth Rock against Xatu and threaten Heliolisk and Rotom thanks to Mold Breaker. All of these Pokemon appreciate Sigilyph's ability to deal with hazard removers such as Golbat, Dhelmise, and Blastoise. Since Sigilyph threatens Grass-types, Pokemon like Slowking, Rhydon, and Sceptile make good partners. These Pokemon also appreciate Sigilyph's ability to switch into Toxic and act as a status absorber. Similarly, Pokemon that are weak to Fighting-type attacks like Heliolisk, Togedemaru, and Pangoro appreciate Sigilyph's ability to switch into Close Combat from Choice Scarf Passimian. Pokemon that can set up on Dark-types such as Incineroar, Comfey, and Scrafty also make great partners that make Sigilyph's time wallbreaking easier. Incineroar and Scrafty can also threaten Ice-types like Sneasel and Mega Glalie for Sigilyph. Pivots like Xatu, Rotom, and Togedemaru can help bring Sigilyph in safely. Togedemaru can also take Electric-type attacks for Sigilyph. Air Slash is the safest STAB move to spam thanks to the lack of Pokemon immune to it. Heat Wave is used to hit Steel-types such as Steelix, Togedemaru, and Silvally-Steel hard as well as OHKO Vikavolt. Energy Ball can OHKO Rhydon and Seismitoad and 2HKO Vaporeon, which Sigilyph cannot do otherwise. Psyshock allows Sigilyph to OHKO Heliolisk and 2HKO Delphox and Assault Vest Slowking after Stealth Rock damage. Psychic is Sigilyph's strongest move and is safe to use against Pokemon like Steelix. With the given EV spread and Choice Specs, Sigilyph becomes a threatening wallbreaker with amazing damage output. Tinted Lens means Sigilyph doesn't really need to predict and can spam its coverage moves much more easily. For example, Psyshock 2HKOes Slowking, and Air Slash will 2HKO Rotom and offensive Rhydon. Choice Specs Sigilyph can function as a powerful wallbreaker that can break down or even 2HKO defensive Pokemon like Slowking and Steelix for its team. Because this set forgoes Magic Guard in exchange for Tinted Lens, getting rid of Stealth Rock should be a priority before Sigilyph can begin wallbreaking. It is advisable to bring Sigilyph in with a pivot, with a predicted double switch, or against resisted hits such as Passimian's Close Combat. Thanks to Tinted Lens, Sigilyph can even deal with Pokemon that resist its STAB moves normally. Even Slowking and Steelix need to be cautious of directly switching into Sigilyph because it can 2HKO them with Psyshock and Air Slash, respectively. This Sigilyph is great for balanced teams that need a powerful wallbreaker. Since this Pokemon is great at whittling down Steelix, Slowking, and Rhydon, partners like Heliolisk, Comfey, and Braviary are able to use their STAB moves more freely. Any Pokemon with entry hazard control such as Xatu, Rotom, Dhelmise, or Blastoise can make a great partner for Sigilyph so it doesn't have to switch into Stealth Rock when it attempts to wallbreak. Blastoise can also draw in Grass-types for Sigilyph. Pivots such as Passimian, Heliolisk, and Togedemaru can help bring Sigilyph safely into battle. Passimian and Togedemaru also appreciate Sigilyph's ability to break down Slowking and Steelix, and Passimian can also check Dark-types for Sigilyph. Hazard setters like Rhydon, Steelix, and Seismitoad can help Sigilyph net important 2HKOs or even OHKOs such as against Assault Vest Slowking. Pokemon such as Passimian, Vikavolt, and Magmortar appreciate Sigilyph's ability to check bulky Pokemon such as Slowking, Rhydon, and Weezing so they can spam their own STAB moves much more. In return, these Pokemon can help keep Pokemon that threaten Sigilyph such as Sneasel, Mega Glalie, and Incineroar at bay. A cleric such as Vaporeon and Mega Audino can help heal Sigilyph with Wish and Heal Bell support. Calm Mind boosts Sigilyph's damage output, turning it into a dangerous sweeper. Air Slash has amazing neutral coverage, making it a good move to spam. Roost keeps Sigilyph healthy so it can continue to sweep and allows it to switch into weak attacks like Scald from Vaporeon and defensive Slowking with more ease. Cosmic Power can make Sigilyph hard to revenge kill, since it boosts both of its defenses. Stored Power can be used as a potential nuke against Flying-resistant Pokemon like Rhydon and Rotom after using Supersonic Skystrike, while also giving Sigilyph an advantage over stall teams. This move requires multiple boosts to be potent, however. Protect can give Sigilyph a safety net against Pursuit from Sneasel and Aerodactyl as well as other potential Choice item users such as Heliolisk and Togedemaru. The given EV spread allows Sigilyph to outspeed Pokemon such as Rotom without a Choice Scarf and Golbat. The remaining EVs should aim to maximize Sigilyph's bulk. Magic Guard allows Sigilyph to avoid damage from Stealth Rock and Toxic poison, giving it more opportunities to begin setting up. Flyinium Z turns Air Slash into a one-time nuke to deal heavy damage to Pokemon such as pivot Incineroar and Druddigon, as well as KOing Sneasel after Stealth Rock damage. Calm Mind Sigilyph should be used as a late-game sweeper if its checks and counters are weakened or knocked out, but it can take out certain threats mid-game if it needs to. This Sigilyph can actually pivot into direct attacks thanks to its invested bulk, but it should still aim to come into attacks it resists such as Passimian's Close Combat and Choice Specs Sceptile's Leaf Storm. Sigilyph can also come into battle against more passive Pokemon such as Seismitoad, Vaporeon, and Blastoise to take any incoming Toxic or Scald, since it is immune to the residual damage from poison and burns thanks to Magic Guard. From here it can begin setting up Calm Mind or Cosmic Power. Once it has boosted, Sigilyph can use Supersonic Skystrike to net important KOs against certain Pokemon that its team may struggle against, such as Druddigon, Comfey, and pivot Incineroar. If running Protect, use it to scout for potential Choice Scarf and Choice Specs users like Togedemaru and Heliolisk and Pursuit from Sneasel and Aerodactyl. Afterwards, it can punish the former by OHKOing it with a boosted Supersonic Skystrike after Stealth Rock damage or pivot into the appropriate answer. Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon, Steelix, and Seismitoad make good partners that help Sigilyph net OHKOs or 2HKOs with its Z-Move after boosting, such as against bulky Incineroar, Sneasel, and Druddigon. Pivots such as Passimian, Rotom, and Togedemaru can bring Sigilyph in safely. Passimian and Togedemaru can also check Sneasel, Rhydon, and Heliolisk for Sigilyph, and it can check Pokemon like Dhelmise and Weezing for them in return. Defensive Pokemon like Incineroar, Delphox, Decidueye, and Slowking appreciate Sigilyph's ability to take Toxic for them. Incineroar can also help deal with Sneasel and Delphox for Sigilyph, while Decidueye can soft check Pokemon like Heliolisk and Assault Vest Slowking for Sigilyph. In return, Sigilyph can help check Passimian for these teammates. Pokemon like Magmortar, Alolan Exeggutor, and Slowking can dispatch of Pokemon that resist Air Slash such as Steelix, Rhydon, and Togedemaru. Sigilyph can also run support options on the Life Orb set such as Defog and Thunder Wave, since the last moveslot is extremely flexible. Defog is especially appealing, since Sigilyph is immune to Stealth Rock damage thanks to Magic Guard. A set with Flame Orb and Psycho Shift is an alternative variation of the Calm Mind Flyinium Z set with the benefit of being able to spread burns while being immune to paralysis caused by Thunder Wave from Slowking and Regirock and Glare from Druddigon. However, it loses the option of an emergency nuke in Supersonic Skystrike, the defensive buffer that Psycho Shift provides is less reliable than that of Cosmic Power, and it is hard walled by Incineroar.
Cinccino (BW competitive strategy): hitting Kabutops, Rhydon, and Slowking for heavy damage. Rock Blast is a from the likes of Qwilfish, Smeargle, or Crustle is greatly appreciated. such as Choice Scarf Emboar and Rotom-C as well as Sceptile. Tail Slap
Cinccino (XY competitive strategy): RU is not a kind metagame for Cinccino. Its mediocre base 95 Attack and inability to remotely dent Steel-types leave it outclassed by nearly all other offensive Pokemon in the tier. Cinccino is also extremely frail with an awful defensive typing, meaning it can only enter the battlefield on a free switch. Being Normal-type and having low Defense also makes Cinccino complete bait to Mach Punch users, particularly Hitmonlee and Gurdurr. Fortunately, because Cinccino has a vast array of multi-hit attacks, it is adept at breaking through foes that rely on Focus Sash and Sturdy. This makes Cinccino a decent anti-lead, preventing Omastar from setting up entry hazards and limiting Accelgor to one layer of Spikes. A blistering base 115 Speed also means Cinccino will nearly always strike first, allowing it to function as a late-game sweeper if it needs to. Tail Slap is a strong STAB attack that can reliably break Focus Sashes and Substitutes. Bullet Seed hits Rock-types such as Rhyperior and Omastar for solid damage. Rock Blast takes down Accelgor as well as Flying- and Fire-types such as Golbat and Delphox. Knock Off hits Ghost-types such as Cofagrigus and is a good move in general for removing foes' items. Alternatively, U-turn can be used to bail Cinccino out of a bad matchup and maintain momentum for your team. Maximum Attack and Speed investment is necessary so that Cinccino can hit as hard and as quickly as possible. A Jolly nature allows Cinccino to outspeed fast Pokemon such as Virizion. Choice Band maximizes Cinccino's damage output, while Life Orb can be used if the ability to switch attacks is preferred. However, the recoil from Life Orb will wear Cinccino down very quickly. Skill Link allows Tail Slap, Bullet Seed, and Rock Blast to always hit five times, thus maximizing their damage output. If the opponent packs an obvious entry hazard lead such as Omastar, lead with Cinccino and break the foe's Focus Sash with the appropriate move. Upon defeating the opponent's lead, feel free to preserve Cinccino for the late-game. Once in the late-game, however, do not switch Cinccino into anything; only bring it into the battlefield on a free switch. Moreover, be sure to significantly weaken opposing Steel-types and physical walls before attempting a sweep, as Cinccino struggles to get past them. If you predict the foe will switch out, use U-turn or Knock Off on the switch to maintain momentum or directly punish the switch-in, respectively. Fire- and Fighting-types such as Delphox and Hitmonlee will annihilate the Steel-types that give Cinccino significant trouble. Pokemon that resist Fighting-types such as Aromatisse and Spiritomb can easily absorb Mach Punch from the likes of Hitmonlee and Gurdurr. Entry hazard setters such as Qwilfish will give Cinccino an easier time landing KOs. A slow U-turn or Volt Switch user such as Eelektross can be used to safely bring Cinccino into the battlefield. A Dark-type such as Drapion or Houndoom checks the Ghost-types that are immune to Cinccino's Tail Slap. Pokemon susceptible to entry hazards, such as Fletchinder, appreciate Cinccino's ability to thwart opposing entry hazard leads. An Adamant nature gives Cinccino a bit more attack power, but its ability to outspeed Pokemon such as Virizion is too critical to pass up. King's Rock gives Cinccino's multi-hit moves a 41% chance to cause a foe to flinch, but the loss in power is noticeable and its dependence on a flinch makes the item unreliable as a whole. Choice Scarf makes Cinccino an extremely fast revenge killer, but such a set lacks power and priority, so other dedicated revenge killers such as Fletchinder are better suited for the role. Wake-Up Slap gives Cinccino a chance against Steel-types, but even then, the move usually does not hit hard enough.
Cinccino (SM competitive strategy): While Cinccino has a great Speed tier and an array of moves bolstered by Skill Link, it struggles to break through most teams due to middling power, mediocre bulk, and a lack of opportunities to switch in. Cinccino struggles to break through common physically defensive Pokemon such as Steelix, Rocky Helmet Weezing, and Ferroseed. Other wallbreakers like Sneasel, Heliolisk, and Aerodactyl provide better STAB moves with higher offenses, defensive utility, and even STAB priority in Sneasel's case. Only use Cinccino as a team mascot because it's too cute to be injured in battle. Cinccino can outpace fast Pokemon such as Heliolisk and attempt to power through more offensive teams and special walls like Druddigon, Slowking, and Delphox with the combination of Choice Band, Skill Link, and its many multi-hit moves. Cinccino can also remove items such as Steelix's Leftovers and Weezing and Druddigon's Rocky Helmet with Knock Off or pivot out of bad matchups with U-turn. However, its lack of options to hurt Steel-type Pokemon super effectively like Steelix and inability to break physically defensive Pokemon like Weezing make Cinccino a horribly outclassed Pokemon in NU.
Cinccino (SS competitive strategy): Cinccino's high Speed and a colorful offensive movepool, with good utility options in Knock Off and U-turn make it a decent revenge killer and offensive pivot. It can outpace most of the unboosted metagame, including Lycanroc and Galvantula, and pick off most offensive threats after they get somewhat weakened. Cincinno can be rather annoying to switch into as well, as Bullet Seed threatens Gigalith and common physically defensive Ground- and Water- types, and a lot of Cincinno's checks such as Ferroseed and Doublade don't appreciate losing their item. It is particularly strong against hyper offense teams, which typically lack any reliable defensive counterplay. However, Cinccino's damage output is often disappointing. Without a damage-boosting item, it fails to OHKO most threats, and it cannot break through many common Pokemon such as Regirock and most of the tier's Steel-types, for example Aggron and Togedemaru. In terms of defensive utility, Cincinno doesn't offer anything whatsoever. A poor defensive typing along with low stats mean that it's almost entirely dependent on free switches. Aside from allowing Cinccino to hit Rock-types meaningfully, Bullet Seed is super effective against a large number of physically defensive Pokemon that would otherwise switch in, like Jellicent, Sandaconda, and Quagsire. With Knock Off, Cinccino can support its team by removing important items from its checks, such as Ferroseed's Eviolite or Aggron's Leftovers. It also targets Ghost-types like Doublade. U-turn is useful for racking up chip damage; it also hits switch-ins like Eldegoss hard. Rock Blast is an option to better function as a revenge killer without a damage-boosting item, notably OHKOing Charizard and Archeops. Triple Axel also works to hit Archeops as well as Grass-types like Eldegoss and Gourgeist-S. Cinccino can also utilize Encore to break past some walls, locking them into status moves, and be a situational safety net against bulky setup sweepers like Calm Mind Mesprit. Protective Pads helps Cinccino against the tier's numerous Rocky Helmet, Iron Barbs and Rough Skin users, such as Togedemaru and Druddigon. Heavy-Duty Boots is another way of limiting the amount of passive damage Cinccino suffers. Choice Band vastly improves Cinccino's prowess as a revenge killer by allowing it to OHKO offensive Charizard, Gallade, and several less common Pokemon like Galvantula. If Cinccino is not required to outspeed anything faster than Charizard, an Adamant nature can be used over Jolly for some additional power. With its pitiful defenses, Cinccino needs to be brought in with pivoting moves of teammates like Togedemaru and Wishiwashi. Wishiwashi, in particular, can also deal with bulky Rock-types like Regirock and walls such as Weezing and Sandaconda. Wallbreakers such as Choice Specs Jellicent can take advantage of the likes of Aggron and Garbodor, and Cinccino can bring them in safely with U-turn on a predicted switch. Spikes from setters like Sandslash and Ferroseed works very well with Cinccino, as most of its checks lack reliable recovery and get worn down quickly after Knock Off removes their Leftovers or Heavy-Duty Boots. By removing items from the likes of Doublade and wearing down Steel- and Poison-type walls, Cinccino can also benefit sweepers like Quiver Dance Ribombee and Swords Dance Silvally-Fairy.
Cinccino (SV competitive strategy): Cinccino's blistering Speed and access to Technician, which it can fully take advantage of with Loaded Dice, make it a dangerous setup sweeper that can end games as easily as it can wallbreak for its partners. Passive Pokemon that might try to take advantage of Cinccino like Orthworm and Bronzong aren't safe from it either, as Cinccino can lock them into setting up entry hazards or using Iron Defense with its Encore, giving it free turns to boost with Tidy Up. On top of that, after a turn of setup, its myriad of coverage moves lets it beat anything from Flygon to Swampert easily. However, Cinccino has terrible four-moveslot syndrome, and its STAB move can be easily punished by common Rocky Helmet users like Amoonguss and Galarian Slowbro. Pokemon like Inteleon and Choice Scarf Mienshao can outpace it and threaten it with a KO, but they fail to check it after it boosts. Cinccino's Tidy Up is also a double-edged sword, as it needs the power to achieve many of its KOs, but in using the move, it removes the hazards that were helping limit its switch-ins in the first place, making it somewhat difficult to fit on many teams. Cinccino also struggles to find setup opportunities due its frailty typically only letting it survive one hit. Knock Off hits Ghost-types that blank Cinccino's STAB attack as well as Bronzong, and Bullet Seed hits certain physically defensive checks like Swampert, Vaporeon, and Milotic. Encore allows Cinccino to take advantage of passive Pokemon like Swampert, Bronzong, and Palossand that use Stealth Rock or heal up, which gifts it more setup opportunities. It also helps Cinccino handle slower setup sweepers like Calm Mind Sylveon and Iron Defense Registeel and Bronzong. Alternatively, Endeavor can be used on Focus Sash sets to heavily dent these same Steel-types for partners like Oricorio-P, Scyther, and Alolan Ninetales, and Triple Axel can be used as a strong coverage move to nail Brambleghast, Gligar, Flygon, and Dragalge. A Cinccino that aims to sweep teams should run Loaded Dice + Technician for maximum damage output. In contrast, if it chooses to be a dedicated lead, Focus Sash + Skill Link allows it to take advantage of both Tidy Up's entry hazard-clearing potential and its multi-hit moves. Tera Ghost allows Cinccino to become immune to Choice Scarf Paldean Tauros-W's as well as Infernape's Close Combat, and it lets Cinccino blank Breloom's Mach Punch and take advantage of it with Encore, giving Cinccino free turns to set up. Cinccino struggles with breaking through Steel-types like Copperajah, Orthworm, and Registeel, so partners such as Alolan Ninetales, Oricorio-P, Diancie, and Munkidori pair well, as they can help overwhelm these shared checks. Teammates that can benefit from Cinccino's Tidy Up removing hazards like Air Balloon Chandelure, Weakness Policy Incineroar, Choice Scarf Staraptor, and Life Orb Kilowattrel enjoy its presence; on top of that, the former two can handle Steel-types easily with their STAB moves, whereas the latter two can help wear them down. Terrain teams can also take advantage of Cinccino's hazard clearing, as common Terrain sweepers like Oricorio-P, Arcanine, and Grafaiai enjoy not being chipped by hazards. Due to them not being as concerned about Cinccino's Tidy Up removing their hazards, Stealth Rock leads like Eject Pack Flygon and Booster Energy Scream Tail pair best with it. Spikes leads like Froslass and Brambleghast can help wear down checks like Orthworm and Copperajah, and a Sticky Web lead like Galvantula can help Cinccino outspeed Choice Scarf users like Infernape, Hisuian Typhlosion, and Munkidori; however, these teams must be wise about when to send out Cinccino to ensure their hazards aren't completely wasted. Physical walls that carry a way to punish contact moves through their ability like Bellibolt or item users like Rocky Helmet Amoonguss and Galarian Slowbro are issues for Cinccino, so teammates with access to Knock Off such as Incineroar and Heracross can help deal with these walls. Cinccino's frailty often hinders its ability to set up, so partners that can create opportunities like Memento Chandelure or slow pivots like Dragalge and Incineroar are greatly appreciated. Protective Pads could be run to not be vulnerable to contact punishment, but with how Cinccino is then forced to use Skill Link, it becomes weaker. On teams that would like an offensive form of entry hazard control, Heavy-Duty Boots + Skill Link can be run on Cinccino alongside U-turn, letting it reliably remove hazards and bring in a wallbreaker for incoming Steel-types. However, the weaker power, along with the fact that there are better hazard removal options generally, causes it to be unused. Tera Blast Fire can be utilized on Cinccino to hit Rocky Helmet Amoonguss and Steel-types like Orthworm and Copperajah, which it can have trouble dealing with otherwise, but Tera Blast being a wasted moveslot before Terastallization means that it's generally worse overall.
Crabominable (SM competitive strategy): Crabominable boasts one of the highest Attack stats in the tier, which in tandem with its solid offensive typing, Iron Fist ability, and access to high-powered STAB moves in Close Combat and Ice Hammer gives it the ability to 2HKO a vast majority of the tier. Crabominable functions as an effective Assault Vest user due to its solid bulk, coveted resistance to Ice, and decent damage output even without investment. Because of its low Speed, Crabominable also fits solidly on Trick Room teams as a hard-hitting physical wallbreaker. Due to how hard it hits under Trick Room, revenge killing it becomes rather difficult even for teams with priority moves. However, Crabominable is pressured easily by common offensive Pokemon such as Stoutland as a result of its aforementioned low Speed, awkward defensive typing, and only decent bulk. While amazing offensively, Crabominable's typing isn't very good defensively outside of checking very specific Pokemon such as Aurorus, burdening it with weaknesses to common attacking types in Fire, Fighting, Flying, and Psychic. Crabominable faces stiff competition from other Fighting-types in the tier such as Gurdurr and Primeape and is forced to find its niche through Assault Vest or Trick Room sets rather than traditional offensive sets. Earthquake gives Crabominable a solid neutral coverage option that also doesn't trigger Rocky Helmet or Aftermath from Pokemon such as Qwilfish and Skuntank. Thunder Punch deals adequate damage to Jellicent while securing an OHKO on Swanna. Crabominable's EVs are dedicated to maximizing its HP and special bulk, allowing it to switch into special attackers such as Aurorus, Cryogonal, and Rotom-F as best as possible. An Adamant nature serves as a jump point, enabling Crabominable to hit hard even when lacking full investment. Crabominable can pivot into various special attackers such as Aurorus, Haunter, and Alolan Persian lacking Dream Eater in order to sponge a powerful hit for its teammates. Against such Pokemon, Crabominable is presented with a great opportunity to fire off an attack. Do be mindful about more powerful special wallbreakers such as Drampa, however, as Crabominable can only switch into certain Choice-locked moves a limited number of times and thus should not be used as a constant switch-in. Crabominable should be kept healthy if it intends to stomach an especially powerful special attack, such as a boosted Omastar's Hydro Pump or a Supersonic Skystrike from Swanna or an unboosted Oricorio-G. Crabominable can then retaliate with a powerful, potentially super effective attack or heal off damage taken with Drain Punch. Bring Crabominable in against slow, bulkier teams whenever presented with the chance, as its high power and effective STAB combination allow it to apply heavy amounts of pressure to such teams. Against more offensive teams, Crabominable should be brought in through double switches or pivots against foes that generally don't bother it such as Aurorus and Rotom-F lacking Will-O-Wisp. Prediction plays a key role when using Crabominable, as its poor Speed and exploitable weaknesses means it can easily be taken advantage of if an opponent is able to safely switch in. For example, use Earthquake in order to maximize damage output on an incoming Qwilfish. Thunder Punch can be used on a predicted Jellicent switch-in to 2HKO offensive variants or force defensive sets to use Recover. Keep Crabominable away from status moves whenever possible, as most are detrimental to its role as a specially bulky wallbreaker. Toxic puts Crabominable on a timer and reduces its ability to pivot into special attackers like Aurorus, while burns severely limit what it can break, making it unable to do adequate damage to the likes of Tangela and turning it into setup fodder for Clefairy. Pokemon such as Musharna, Regirock, and Spiritomb are able to pressure offensive Fighting-, Flying-, and Psychic-types like Gurdurr, Scyther, and Alolan Raichu. Entry hazard setters such as Mudsdale, Qwilfish, and Torterra allow Crabominable to wallbreak far more easily. Qwilfish can additionally cripple physical attackers like Kangaskhan and Alolan Sandslash. Pivots such as Silvally-Fairy enjoy Crabominable wearing down walls and are able to bring it in more safely whilst luring in bulkier threats such as Regirock and Mudsdale for Crabominable to take advantage of. Defoggers like Altaria and Skuntank are able to clear entry hazards off the field, which otherwise wear at Crabominable and water down its ability to pivot into special attackers. Altaria also doubles as a cleric with Heal Bell, while Skuntank can absorb Toxic Spikes and take on Musharna. Late-game sweepers such as Lycanroc, Combusken, and Dodrio highly appreciate Crabominable's ability to heavily dent bulkier foes like Mudsdale, Clefairy, and Regirock. Physically defensive walls such as Mudsdale and Torterra are able to switch into incoming attacks from various offensive threats like Aggron and Primeape looking to exploit Crabominable's mediocre physical defense. Substitute allows Crabominable to avoid status conditions from foes such as Audino and rack up Toxic damage more easily. It also prevents threats such as Primeape and Dodrio from revenge killing Crabominable. Drain Punch and Ice Hammer are both strong Iron Fist-boosted STAB moves that allow Crabominable to maintain a strong offensive presence despite the lack of Attack investment, notably allowing it to OHKO Victreebel even after the latter uses Strength Sap. Moreover, they provide complementary coverage, and Drain Punch somewhat mitigates the damage taken by setting a Substitute up. The Speed EVs allow Crabominable to outspeed Pokemon such as Audino and Regirock before they can cripple it with Toxic. The leftover EVs are put into HP and Special Defense, which allows Crabominable to take on threats such as Aurorus and Victreebel while also letting its Substitute tank various hits such as Jellicent's Scald and defensive Cryogonal's Hidden Power Fire or Fighting. Leftovers somewhat mitigates the damage taken from setting a Substitute up and gives it Crabominable more leeway in switching into threats like Alolan Persian. An alternative EV spread with 196 Speed EVs to outspeed defensive Lanturn can be used, to avoid getting crippled with Toxic before Crabominable can set a Substitute up. This also allows Crabominable to outspeed Jellicent and Drampa, which can use Taunt on Crabominable before it can react with Substitute or Toxic and do high damage to it with Hyper Voice, respectively. However, this takes away some of Crabominable's defensive utility and makes it harder for it to pivot into various threats. Crabominable should mainly be used early- to mid-game to weaken defensive behemoths such as Jellicent so a teammate can get past them late-game. Its typing and solid bulk make it a very reliable switch-in to threats like Aurorus, non-Toxic Cryogonal, and Nasty Plot Alolan Persian, which allows it to set a Substitute up to pressure the opposing team or cripple an incoming check such as Jellicent with Toxic. Although it has solid bulk, be cautious about recklessly sending Crabominable in against these Pokemon; it needs to be healthy to rack up Toxic damage effectively. Instead, it greatly appreciates being brought it via U-turn and Volt Switch. Against bulkier teams with a solid defensive answer to Crabominable, it is better to cripple the switch-in and then set a Substitute up to rack up damage instead of simply attacking, which could result in a loss of momentum. Against more offensive teams with no real answers to Crabominable, setting a Substitute up against a threat that's forced out by Crabominable such as Rotom-F will allow it to wallbreak more easily and make it significantly harder to revenge kill while also easing prediction. This often leads to the opponent having to sacrifice one or multiple Pokemon. Pokemon such as Primeape, Omastar, and Lycanroc appreciate Crabominable weakening walls such as Jellicent, Sableye, and Regirock. In return, Omastar and Lycanroc take advantage of Flying-types that threaten Crabominable, like Dodrio and Oricorio-E. U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Silvally-Fairy, Lanturn, and the aforementioned Primeape can bring Crabominable in against Pokemon like Mudsdale, Regirock, Audino, Clefairy, and Cryogonal, giving it a free opportunity to either attack, cripple a switch-in, or set a Substitute up. Silvally-Fairy can, in return, switch into Fighting-types that Crabominable invites in and use them as setup fodder, while Lanturn can switch into Fire-types that threaten Crabominable. Moreover, Lanturn's access to Heal Bell allows Crabominable to switch into Toxic and Scald users without much risk. Crabominable struggles a lot against Fighting-types like Primeape, Gurdurr, and Hitmonchan, which makes checks to these foes such as Jellicent, Musharna, and Oricorio-E necessary. Jellicent and Musharna appreciate Crabominable dealing with Dark-types like Alolan Persian, Musharna can further support Crabominable via Future Sight and Healing Wish, and Oricorio-E appreciates Crabominable weakening Regirock. All of them also invite in various special walls such as Cryogonal and Alolan Sandslash that Crabominable can beat. Specially offensive Victreebel is a good partner too, as it draws in Cryogonal and Altaria for Crabominable to take advantage of and can, in return, deal with Qwilfish and Gurdurr. Stealth Rock and Spikes users such as Mudsdale and Ferroseed are greatly appreciated, as they further pressure the opposing team in conjunction with Toxic. Regirock is an amazing partner, as it can also switch into Flying-types and physical wallbreakers such as Dodrio that threaten Crabominable. In return, Crabominable can switch into some special wallbreakers like Aurorus that threaten Regirock. Qwilfish is also a solid partner thanks to its ability to check Fighting-types like Gurdurr, and similarly to Regirock, it appreciates Crabominable's ability to switch into special wallbreakers. Rapid Spin and Defog users are appreciated, as they make Crabominable's job far easier and allow it to set more Substitutes up if needed. Altaria and Swanna are solid partners, as not only do they provide Defog support, they can also switch into Fire- and Fighting-types like Simisear, Combusken, and Gurdurr. Kabutops can also work, as it appreciates Crabominable crippling and weakening Jellicent to the point where it can't reliably spinblock against Kabutops. Lastly, Pursuit users such as Stoutland, Skuntank, and Absol are appreciated, as they ease Crabominable's job by trapping Musharna and Bronzor, and they all appreciate Crabominable weakening Pokemon like Ferroseed and Regirock. Ice Hammer is Crabominable's strongest Ice-type STAB move, and it deals heavy damage to some of the tier's most reliable physical walls such as Tangela. It also decreases Crabominable's Speed, helping it outspeed opposing Crabominable and Musharna under Trick Room. Close Combat is Crabominable's strongest Fighting-type STAB move, hitting a lot of Ice-resistant Pokemon like Aggron and Lanturn for either neutral or super effective damage. Earthquake gives Crabominable the ability to KO Skuntank without triggering Aftermath, while Thunder Punch allows Crabominable to threaten Jellicent. The Brave nature and 0 IVs in Speed serve to further augment Crabominable's power while making it as slow as possible, which helps it outspeed as much as it can under Trick Room. Iron Fist is useful for increasing the power of Ice Hammer and Thunder Punch. Life Orb increases the power of all of its moves at the unfortunate cost of recoil damage per attack. Choice Band is an alternative that allows Crabominable to hit even harder without costing it health with every attack, but it comes with the drawback of locking Crabominable into one move, which can be taken advantage of by Ghost-types if it locks itself into Close Combat. Crabominable should only be used on Trick Room teams due to its previously mentioned low Speed. It is highly advised not to switch Crabominable into moves throughout the match, as its bulk is only average, and this in combination with any residual damage, including possible Life Orb recoil, wears it down much faster. Due to how quickly Crabominable is worn down, it often makes for a really good recipient of Healing Wish from Pokemon such as Musharna. Crabominable works best as a wallbreaker under Trick Room that gives its teammates an easier time cleaning. The best ways to get Crabominable in are after something is KOed or through the use of U-turn. Observing the opposing team is important, as this will confirm whether or not Crabominable is free to spam Close Combat or if it must predict. Don't be afraid to make predictions if using the Choice Band variant, as being locked into the wrong move can completely lose all of the momentum previously obtained, which isn't good for hyper offensive teams. Crabominable should switch out as soon as Trick Room ends due to how easily common offensive Pokemon like Dodrio and Simisear deal with it outside of Trick Room. Partners that can set up Trick Room such as Audino, Musharna, and Carbink for Crabominable are a necessity due to its role as a Trick Room wallbreaker. Healing Wish support from the aforementioned Audino and Musharna is appreciated, as Crabominable's going to be switching out and possibly taking Life Orb recoil a lot throughout the match, which racks up unwanted damage and leaves it more susceptible to priority attacks. Slow special attackers such as Exeggutor and Wishiwashi make for good partners, as they can break through Pokemon like Jellicent and Sableye for Crabominable. In return, Crabominable takes care of bulkier Steel-types and Lanturn for them, respectively. Ursaring makes for a good partner due to its ability to absorb burns for Crabominable and severely weaken Pokemon that Crabominable can only 2HKO, like defensive Jellicent. A Choice Band set with maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature can be used outside of Trick Room, but despite its higher power, it is outclassed in this role by Primeape due to the latter's higher Speed and access to U-turn. Still, it is much stronger, able to break Pokemon such as Mudsdale more easily. Pursuit can be used to trap Ghost-types such as Oricorio-G, allowing Crabominable to more freely use Close Combat, but it is not a desirable move to be locked into, and many of them are already hit hard by Ice Hammer.
Serperior (BW competitive strategy): When it comes to late-game cleaners, Serperior does its job very well thanks to its superior Speed tier and surprisingly solid natural bulk. With said Speed tier, it's able to outspeed and heavily damage many threats in the metagame like Rotom-S, Charizard, and Haunter. It can run a Calm Mind + Substitute set to become a more formidable sweeper. Hidden Power Rock and Ground round out Serperior's coverage quite nicely, hitting Flying- and Poison-types, respectively. Hidden Power Ice can be used to hit Dragon- and Grass-types; however, thet are fairly uncommon and typically not worth the moveslot. Despite all this, Serperior usually needs at least a single Calm Mind to be an effective sweeper due to its subpar Special Attack stat. While it is naturally fast, there are many faster threats that offensively pressure it like Choice Scarf Rotom-F, Swellow, and Floatzel. There's also a multitude of special walls like Miltank, Roselia, and Zweilous to boot that simply laugh at Serperior's attempts to take them down. Serperior can use Substitute or Taunt to take advantage of passive Pokemon that it checks like Seismitoad and Alomomola. Substitute in particular makes Serperior tougher to revenge kill and allows it to safely fall into Overgrow range. A Calm Mind boost alongside Life Orb will let Serperior's Giga Drain net OHKOs on threats like Samurott, Golurk, and Regirock, as well as neutral Pokemon like Eelektross and Kangaskhan if boosted by Overgrow. Giga Drain often offsets Life Orb recoil and can allow Serperior to use Substitute multiple times. Hidden Power Rock nails Charizard, Braviary, and Rotom-S for super effective damage, while Hidden Power Ground does the same to Poison-types like Garbodor and Skuntank. Serperior fits best on balance and bulky offense teams that benefit from an offensive Water-resistand Pokemon. While it is fast, Choice Scarf Pokemon like Primeape, Rotom-S, and Haunter all threaten Serperior with their respective STAB moves and can take an unboosted attack from it. Defensive answers to these threats like Weezing, Camerupt, and Mandibuzz, respectively, are appreciated. Naturally faster threats like Swellow and Floatzel can force Serperior out as well. Physically defensive Pokemon such as Regirock and Alomomola take on Swellow very easily, and the latter can also comfortably switch into Floatzel. Serperior's partners can largely dictate what Hidden Power it runs, as with Hidden Power Rock, having teammates such as Golem, Piloswine, and Seismitoad to dent Poison-types can help Serperior manage without the super effective coverage. If Serperior opts for Hidden Power Ground to snipe Poison-types and stray targets like Camerupt, then Flying-types such as Charizard, Braviary, and Mandibuzz can switch into its Giga Drain very easily, making Electric- and Rock-types like Eelektross and Regirock solid partners. Special walls such as Roselia and Zweilous can almost always take on Serperior but must be wary of the rare Hidden Power Ice, which also hits Flying-types like Mandibuzz. Sap Sipper Miltank is the definition of a hard wall for Serperior, pressuring it even if it's behind a Substitute or Miltank is Taunted. Physical wallbreakers like Sawk and Braviary break through these special walls. Glare is a nice utility option over Substitute or Calm Mind to slow down faster threats. However, more often than not, they generally don't stay in long enough for Serperior to do this, and it also takes away from Serperior's job as a sweeper. Hidden Power Ice can be used to check the niche Dragon- and Grass-types that can otherwise give Serperior trouble. Knock Off can be used to remove Eviolite and Leftovers from common checks, annoying even hard stops such as Miltank. Substitute paired with Leech Seed can be used in favor of Hidden Power to chip down all of Poison-, Fire-, and Flying-types.
Serperior (XY competitive strategy): Serperior slithers across the battlefield as one of the most dangerous threats in the metagame thanks to its solid Speed stat, amazing ability in Contrary, decent typing, and wide range of utility moves, such as Glare, Taunt, Knock Off, Leech Seed, Reflect, and Light Screen. Its Speed allows it to get the jump on Pokemon like Keldeo, Latias, and Mega Metagross. With a Contrary-boosted Leaf Storm, Serperior serves as a fantastic cleaner and threatens key metagame staples like Excadrill, Clefable, Landorus-T, and Rotom-W. Contrary also allows Serperior to punish Defog, letting it take on Pokemon that it should have no business staying in against, such as Magma Storm Heatran. However, Serperior has no reliable coverage options outside of Hidden Power. Speaking of which, it has to choose between Hidden Power Fire or Hidden Power Rock, forcing it to pick between losing to Steel-types like Mega Scizor and Ferrothorn or Fire-types like Volcarona and Mega Charizard Y. Serperior also can't fit all of its utility options into one set. Its Special Attack stat is below average at best, forcing it to rely on boosting with Leaf Storm to threaten the opposing team, in which the low PP can be exploited by Pressure users like Zapdos. Additionally, Serperior is outpaced by Pokemon like Tornadus-T, Weavile, Mega Lopunny, and Mega Alakazam, and its typing leaves it vulnerable to U-turn and common attacking types like Ice, Fire, and Flying. Leaf Storm threatens Water-types like Keldeo, Rotom-W, Gastrodon, and Seismitoad. Hidden Power Rock punishes Fire- and Flying-types like Volcarona, Mega Charizard Y, Talonflame, and Zapdos. Hidden Power Fire is a solid alternative to let Serperior bait in and threaten Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory. Knock Off removes Leftovers from targets like Ferrothorn and Heatran, Assault Vest from Tornadus-T, and Eviolite from Chansey. Taunt prevents setup attempts from the likes of Mega Charizard X and Volcarona and prevents the likes of Chansey from healing with Soft-Boiled. Finally, Glare punishes switch-ins like Tornadus-T and Heatran and prevents Pokemon like Mega Charizard X from setting up on Serperior. The given HP investment ensures that Serperior survives three hits from Seismic Toss after Stealth Rock, while the rest of its EVs are dumped into Speed and Special Attack. Rocky Helmet is recommended to punish contact moves such as U-turn from Landorus-T, Seismic Toss from Chansey, Rapid Spin from Excadrill, and priority moves like Fake Out from Mega Medicham and Bullet Punch from Mega Scizor. Lum Berry is a solid alternative that allows Serperior to shrug off status, such as paralysis from opposing Serperior's Glare and Thundurus's Thunder Wave, and punish the latter with a boosted Hidden Power Rock. If Serperior ditches Hidden Power Rock and Fire in exchange for Knock Off, it can run 31 Speed IVs to outspeed opposing Serperior that have the aforementioned Hidden Power types. This Serperior variant compresses the role of a revenge killer, a support Pokemon, and a good defensive check against Water- and Ground-types in one team slot. If it is facing a Pokemon that it easily scares out, it can use the opportunity to punish predicted switch-ins with its Hidden Power of choice, such as Talonflame with Hidden Power Rock, or make use of its solid support movepool, such as Glare to punish Tornadus-T and Knock Off to remove Leftovers from Ferrothorn and Heatran. While Serperior is a solid check to bulky Water-types, it must be careful when switching into Scald, as the chance to burn will reduce its longevity, especially if Serperior is not running Lum Berry to shrug off the burn. Another thing to keep in mind is that these Water-types can also punish Serperior with Toxic, which reduces its efficacy. Serperior must be careful with its Leaf Storm PP, especially if the opponent has a Pressure user like Zapdos, as it can quickly drain Leaf Storm's PP, reducing Serperior's ability to clean up later in the game. This Serperior set is a solid fit on teams ranging from offense, bulky offense, and sand structures that appreciate its useful utility options and its ability to handle bulky Water-types. Strong wallbreakers like Mega Medicham, Mega Charizard Y, Volcanion, Keldeo, and Weavile love the paralysis support that Serperior's Glare provides, which makes it easier to revenge kill Pokemon that are otherwise faster, such as Mega Lopunny and Tornadus-T. Weavile also traps and eliminates Mega Latias, which Serperior greatly appreciates. Mega Metagross deserves a mention, as it appreciates Serperior removing bulky Water-types like Slowbro, Gastrodon, and Seismitoad and switching into Ground-type attacks aimed at it. In return, Mega Metagross provides a solid answer to Mega Latias. Setup sweepers like Mega Gallade, Bisharp, and Volcarona also benefit from the paralysis support that Serperior provides, as the chance of full paralysis provides them with extra opportunities to set up with their boosting moves. Serperior enjoys partnering with Mega Alakazam, as they can pressure and overwhelm Chansey with repeated attacks and stop it from recovering with Soft-Boiled thanks to Taunt. Additionally, all of these Pokemon benefit from Serperior's Knock Off removing items like Leftovers from Ferrothorn and Clefable, making it easier to overwhelm bulky teams later in the game. Pivots like Zapdos, Rotom-W, Landorus-T, and Tornadus-T are helpful, as they grant a safe entry via Volt Switch and U-turn. On sand teams, Tyranitar and Excadrill have incredible synergy with Serperior thanks to Serperior's ability to check troublesome Water-types like Keldeo, Manaphy, and Gastrodon. Tyranitar can also trap and eliminate Latias and Tornadus-T with Pursuit, while Excadrill removes entry hazards with Rapid Spin and becomes a dangerous revenge killer and late-game cleaner thanks to Sand Rush. Serperior supports Excadrill's offensive capabilities by baiting in and removing Steel-types like Mega Scizor and Skarmory with Hidden Power Fire. Heatran sets up Stealth Rock and provides a solid answer to Amoonguss and Mega Scizor, especially if Serperior runs Hidden Power Rock. Leaf Storm alongside Contrary boosts Serperior's Special Attack by two stages each time it is used. Hidden Power Fire is used to hit Steel-types like Skarmory, Mega Scizor, and Ferrothorn. Hidden Power Ground is also an option to hit Heatran. Glare can be used to paralyze switch-ins to Serperior such as Tornadus-T and Talonflame. Alternatively, Leech Seed allows Serperior to whittle down common checks like Heatran while also restoring its HP. Substitute lets Serperior avoid status moves like Toxic and Thunder Wave and eases prediction against switches. Knock Off is also an option to remove items like Chansey's Eviolite or Tornadus-T's Assault Vest. Synthesis can also be run to help Serperior stay healthy. 56 HP EVs stop Rotom-W's Hydro Pump from breaking Serperior's Substitutes. 252 Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow Serperior to be as fast as possible, and the rest of the EVs are dumped into Special Attack to make Serperior hit as hard as possible. An alternative spread of 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe is an option to maximize Serperior's breaking power. Leftovers is used to give Serperior more longevity and help it stay as healthy as possible. Contrary is always chosen to allow Serperior to get a boost every time it uses Leaf Storm. Serperior cannot consistently switch into attacks, so it prefers to come in freely via methods such as a teammate fainting, a pivot move like Volt Switch or U-turn, a double switch, or a switch into a Pokemon that cannot threaten it like Rotom-W. Be aware of Leaf Storm's limited PP. Glare can be used to catch Serperior's checks on the switch like Tornadus-T, Heatran, and Talonflame. A common strategy with Serperior is setting up Substitute on the switch, using Leech Seed the next turn, and spamming Substitute to slowly wear down the foe's health. Hidden Power Fire should be used on Steel-types like Skarmory and Ferrothorn after Serperior gets a boost with Leaf Storm so it can do more damage to them. Serperior struggles with Fire- and Flying-types that can stomach its hits and threaten it back. Keldeo is a good partner, as it's able to take on Fire-types like Heatran while also appreciating Serperior's ability to take on Water-types like Slowbro and Starmie that eat up Keldeo's Water-type moves. Tyranitar can also help remove or weaken Pokemon like Latios, Latias, Heatran, and Talonflame to help Serperior sweep. Weavile has a similar role as Tyranitar in the sense that it has access to Pursuit, but, more importantly, it is able to check Tornadus-T and Grass-types like Amoonguss. VoltTurn users like Rotom-W and Tornadus-T help Serperior to switch in. Mega Charizard Y is a good partner because it is able to wear down Heatran with Focus Blast while also lowering the accuracy of Tornadus-T's Hurricane due to setting sun. Serperior's high Speed makes it an effective user of dual screens, providing easy setup opportunities for its offensive teammates. Light Screen reduces the damage taken from special attacks, while Reflect reduces the damage taken from physical attacks. Taunt prevents enemy setup moves such as Dragon Dance from Dragonite and Stealth Rock while Serperior sets up dual screens. It also ensures that Defog users cannot remove entry hazards and the dual screens Serperior has set up. Leaf Storm, alongside Contrary, lets Serperior hit decently hard, preventing it from being too passive. Finally, Glare can be used to punish switch-ins such as Tornadus-T and Heatran, and it prevents Pokemon like Mega Charizard X from setting up on Serperior, but Taunt is much preferred to prevent Defog. The given EV spread lets Serperior be as fast and bulky as possible, allowing it to outspeed Pokemon like Thundurus, Mega Metagross, and Mega Diancie and ensuring that Serperior can survive heavy hits from Pokemon like Mega Alakazam to set up dual screens. Light Clay is mandatory to increase the duration of dual screens. Most importantly, the EV spread allows Serperior to survive the combination of Fake Out and High Jump Kick from Mega Lopunny. Serperior can use its high Speed and great utility options to set up dual screens, even at the cost of being KOed. It should make sure to set them up as quickly as possible to provide much easier setup opportunities for its teammates, making them more difficult to revenge kill. If only one move can be used, determine if the opposing team has more physical or special attackers and set up accordingly. Serperior can be preserved for later in the game to come back in and set up the dual screens again in case they wear out. It should also be wary of Knock Off, as losing its Light Clay will reduce the number of turns that it can keep its dual screens up. This Serperior set thrives on hyper offense teams, which enjoy the setup opportunities that dual screens provide, as well as other utility options such as Taunt to deny entry hazards and setup opportunities and Glare to cripple switch-ins. A multitude of offensive teammates such as Volcarona, Manaphy, and Mega Charizard X greatly enjoy the support provided by dual screens and are able to use their setup moves in a much safer environment thanks to them. Teammates that help prevent Defog, such as Taunt Mega Alakazam and Defiant Bisharp, are also appreciated, as this allows dual screens to stay on the field for a longer time. Leaf Storm is Serperior's main STAB move, dealing heavy damage and triggering a +2 Special Attack boost through its Contrary ability. Hidden Power Rock hits many of Serperior's switch-ins that resist Grass-type moves such as Zapdos, Thundurus, Volcarona, and Mega Charizard Y. On the other hand, Hidden Power Fire super effectively hits Steel-types such as Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, Magnezone, and Mega Metagross that would otherwise give Serperior a hard time. Glare paralyzes foes that are faster than Serperior as well as foes that cannot be effectively damaged with Serperior's other moves like Tornadus-T and Heatran. In combination with a Chesto Berry, Rest heals Serperior instantly and removes all status conditions, providing greater longevity. Max Speed investment and Timid nature are preferred to fully utilize Serperior's base 113 Speed. 200 HP and 44 Defense EVs allow it to survive Mega Lopunny's Fake Out and High Jump Kick as well as a Hurricane from Tornadus-T. The bulk gives Serperior time to accumulate Special Attack boosts through the combination of Leaf Storm and Contrary. With a raised Special Attack and the ability to use Rest later in the game, Serperior can effectively remove some of its threats such as Thundurus and Mega Alakazam. It is worth noting that EVs invested in Special Attack double in value after a single Leaf Storm. Though this set is quite bulky and formidable, it will lack in immediate power even after one Leaf Storm due to a lack of Special Attack investment. The main advantage of using Rest Serperior is its ability to cure status conditions that Serperior often receives throughout the game. Paralysis is common to get upon switching into Slowbro, Clefable, Thundurus, or even opposing Serperior. Serperior also gets burnt often by switching in on Scalds or Rotom-W's Will-O-Wisp. Finally, Serperior often gets poisoned by switching in on Slowbro or Gastrodon. Having a one-time full recovery allows Serperior to get past some of its checks throughout the game if played carefully. A paralysis on Tornadus-T can later lead to a KO with some good positioning and luck. Serperior functions well in balanced or bulky offense teams. Due to its weakness to fast Flying- and Ice-types such as Tornadus-T and Weavile, respectively, Pokemon like Mega Metagross, Rotom-W, and Heatran make suitable partners. Strong physical attackers like Choice Band Tyranitar and Weavile help Serperior by overcoming defensive cores. Additionally, these teammates can Pursuit trap threats like Latias, Amoonguss, Heatran, and Tornadus-T, and can take advantage of paralysis that Serperior provides with Glare. Serperior can make use of other Hidden Power types; Hidden Power Ground threatens Heatran, and Hidden Power Ice smashes the likes of Dragonite, Mega Latias, and Mega Altaria. However, not running Hidden Power Rock or Hidden Power Fire leaves Serperior at the mercy of Flying- and Steel-types like Talonflame, Mega Charizard Y, Mega Scizor, and Ferrothorn. Synthesis is a useful option alongside Leftovers to extend Serperior's longevity and continue threatening Water-types like Keldeo, Rotom-W, and Gastrodon. However, sand from Tyranitar and Hippowdon will reduce the amount of HP that Serperior can gain back. Giga Drain can be used on offensive variants to provide Serperior with both an option to still threaten Water-types and extra longevity without being hindered by Taunt. However, this forces Serperior to give up a crucial utility option like Glare or Taunt.
Serperior (SM competitive strategy): Serperior has cemented itself as a significant force to be reckoned with in the OU tier thanks to its ability Contrary's perfect synergy with Leaf Storm turning it into a huge snowballing threat, backed up by its high Speed stat and amazing utility options such as Glare, Taunt, Defog, Knock Off, and Leech Seed. With its Contrary-boosted Leaf Storm, Serperior acts as a fantastic cleaner for offensively oriented teams that can bulldoze past metagame staples such as Toxapex and Tapu Fini. It can also use Substitute to take advantage of switch-ins and either wear them down with Leech Seed or punish them with Glare. The combination of Taunt and Defog makes Serperior a great enabler for hyper offense teams, supporting teammates vulnerable to Stealth Rock, such as Dragonite, Mega Charizard X, and Volcarona. Its great Speed tier lets it get the jump on key Pokemon such as Kartana, Mega Latias, and Mega Medicham, and it also makes Serperior a great Choice Scarf user, able to outpace and revenge kill the likes of Ash-Greninja, Mega Swampert under the rain, and weakened targets like Mega Alakazam and Tapu Koko. However, Serperior is held back by its lack of coverage, and it has to rely on Hidden Power Fire to hit Pokemon like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Kartana. Serperior also struggles against common Pokemon like Magearna, Heatran, and Mega Charizard X, and it can't fit all of its utility options it wants in one set. Its Special Attack stat is also below average at best without relying on boosting with Leaf Storm, in which the low PP is exploited by a multitude of Grass-resistant Pokemon like Zapdos, Ferrothorn, and the aforementioned Magearna. Its Speed stat, while solid, leaves it outpaced by common Pokemon such as Tornadus-T, Greninja, and Tapu Koko. Finally, its typing leaves it vulnerable to U-turn and common attacking types such as Fire, Ice, and Flying. Leaf Storm allows Serperior to threaten common Stealth Rock setters offensively and to become a threat in its own right with repeated Special Attack boosts. Taunt has various uses on this set, most notably preventing entry hazards from being set by the likes of Chansey, Ferrothorn, Garchomp, and Landorus-T. Serperior can also use Taunt to prevent opposing hazard removal from Pokemon like Mega Latias. Taunt and Rocky Helmet allow Serperior to comfortably beat Chansey one-on-one by preventing both healing and status moves and discouraging attacking, respectively. Glare allows Serperior to punishes switch-ins like Magearna, Heatran and Tornadus-T, as well as stopping Pokemon like Volcarona and Mega Charizard X from freely setting up on it. Defog allows Serperior to clear entry hazards, which it is able to do in the face of common entry hazard setters such as Excadrill, Landorus-T, and Mega Diancie. 208 HP EVs in conjunction with 48 Defense EVs allow Serperior to survive rain-boosted Waterfall followed by Ice Punch from Jolly Mega Swampert. The rest is put into Speed in order to Speed tie with opposing Serperior. Serperior can use its solid Speed to force a Defog opportunity, even by sacrificing itself to the likes of Heatran if necessary. The threat of paralysis can often force out the likes of Mega Medicham and, at full health, faster Pokemon like Mega Lopunny and Ash-Greninja that can't OHKO Serperior, giving it opportunities to use Defog completely for free. Serperior should proactively use Taunt against Stealth Rock users like Ferrothorn and Heatran if entry hazards are cleared, even at the expense of being OHKOed, as its main objective is to enable its teammates that are weak to Stealth Rock at all costs. It can additionally sacrifice itself to get a crucial paralysis off against the likes of Volcarona and Mega Charizard X, also being able to limit them to one Speed boost with Taunt, ensuring that they are not able to negate the Speed drop. Although Serperior finds great success when used in an aggressive, sacrificial fashion, it has defensive utility in that it can switch into Mega Swampert and Kartana once and revenge kill Mega Medicham and Mega Diancie. This variant of Serperior is exclusively used on hyper offensive teams, as they appreciate Serperior's useful utility movepool alongside its lack of passivity. Hyper offense threats that are weak to Stealth Rock, such as Mega Charizard X and Volcarona, highly appreciate the extra security that Serperior's Defog brings. Another way Serperior can help the aforementioned Pokemon is its ability to threaten Water-types, such as Tapu Fini and Rotom-W, and Ground-types such as Garchomp. Serperior appreciates a dedicated lead such as Mega Diancie, Taunt Mew, or Excadrill starting the game off with entry hazards clear, as using Defog loses valuable momentum. Additionally, Serperior is a good facilitator for hazard setters such as Greninja, as it can prevent opposing Defog by using Taunt. Pairing Serperior with a Steel-type teammate such as Magearna is useful, as it can check Tornadus-T, which outspeeds and threatens to OHKO Serperior. Special attackers that struggle with Chansey, such as Volcarona and Shift Gear Magearna, appreciate Serperior's ability to chip away at Chansey and prevent its healing. Leaf Storm blows through neutral targets like Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Gliscor after a boost and smashes bulky Water-types like Rotom-W, Slowbro, and Tapu Fini. Hidden Power Fire complements Leaf Storm and threatens Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Skarmory. Glare cripples switch-ins like Tornadus-T, Magearna, Heatran, and Mega Charizard X and allows Serperior to use Substitute to fish for a chance of full paralysis and stall with Leech Seed. Substitute is this set's main attraction, letting Serperior take advantage of forced switches and protecting it from status moves like Toxic from Toxapex and Thunder Wave from Clefable. Finally, Leech Seed enables Serperior to wear down and potentially beat checks such as Heatran, Magearna, and Chansey. Leech Seed also synergizes well with Substitute, as the HP that Serperior gains back lets it use Substitute more frequently. The given HP investment ensures that Rotom-W's Hydro Pump and Ferrothorn's Power Whip don't break Serperior's Substitute, while the rest of its EVs are dumped into Special Attack and Speed. Leftovers is necessary for slowly regaining health and to allow Serperior to use Substitute more frequently. Serperior fills the role of an early-game wallbreaker and late-game cleaner that can use its solid Speed stat and offensive presence to force switches against Pokemon it scares out, such as Tapu Fini and Rotom-W, to make the most out of the free opportunities that Substitute provides. Due to the nature of this set, which involves reducing its own HP, avoid switching Serperior into strong attacks, as this can heavily weaken it. Instead, it is best to bring it in via aggressive switches, with pivot support from Volt Switch and U-turn, or after a teammate has fainted. If the opponent switches in a Pokemon that can take Leaf Storm like Tornadus-T, Kyurem-B, Heatran, or Chansey, Serperior can capitalize on this opportunity to punish these checks with Glare or, in the case of Chansey, wear it down with Leech Seed, making it easier for Serperior's offensive teammates to break through them. Serperior must manage its Leaf Storm PP carefully, as the opponent can play around it with Grass-resistant Pokemon like Magearna and Zapdos and drain Leaf Storm's low PP, eventually leaving it unable to attack. Serperior must be wary of status conditions at all times, especially paralysis and poison, as they will reduce its efficacy. Therefore, it is a good idea to use Substitute to scout for Pokemon that can potentially cripple it with status, such as Thunder Wave from Clefable and Toxic from Toxapex. Serperior must also be wary of Knock Off, as this can reduce both its longevity and the number of times that it can use Substitute. It is often beneficial to use Leech Seed on a predicted switch-in followed by Substitute on the next turn, as opposed to the other way around. This allows Serperior to more efficiently use its PP to force extra damage against slower answers like Heatran, Celesteela, Zapdos, and Volt Switch variants of Magearna. This Serperior set is a solid fit on teams ranging from offense, bulky offense, balance, sand, and sun, which value its capability as a wallbreaker and late-game cleaner. Pivots such as Tornadus-T, Landorus-T, and Tapu Koko are solid partners, as they can safely bring Serperior in via U-turn and Volt Switch. Additionally, they can remove entry hazards with Defog, especially Toxic Spikes from Toxapex, which ruins Serperior's longevity. Tapu Koko also has the benefit of taking on Flying-types like Tornadus-T and Hawlucha. Heatran sets up Stealth Rock and provides a solid answer to Steel-types that threaten Serperior like Celesteela and Magearna. Protean and Battle Bond Greninja are also solid partners, as they can provide crucial support with Spikes. Protean variants can also snipe Magearna with Tectonic Rage, which is especially helpful for variants that don't have Leech Seed, while the Battle Bond variant eliminates Heatran and places heavy pressure on Assault Vest Magearna in conjunction with Spikes. Bulky Water-types like Tapu Fini and Toxapex are also beneficial, checking Fire-types like Volcarona, Victini, and Heatran. Tapu Fini can also summon Misty Terrain to protect Serperior from status conditions and remove hazards with Defog, while Toxapex lays down Toxic Spikes to put pressure on the likes of Chansey, Tapu Koko, and Kyurem-B, and Shed Shell variants of Toxapex can switch into Heatran's Magma Storm and remove its Leftovers with Knock Off. Magnezone can remove a lot of pressure for it by trapping and eliminating Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory, giving it more freedom to drop Hidden Power Fire. Magearna is also a fantastic partner, as it can bring Serperior in safely via Volt Switch and solidly answers the likes of Weavile, Tornadus-T, and Mega Latias. Strong wallbreakers like Mega Medicham, Mega Mawile, and Tapu Lele soften checks like Magearna for Serperior to clean up later in the game and appreciate the paralysis support from Glare, letting them threaten faster checks like Tornadus-T. Serperior also appreciates Weavile punishing switch-ins with Knock Off, weakening the likes of Chansey, trapping and removing Tornadus-T and Mega Latias with Pursuit, and revenge killing Dragon-types like Kommo-o and Dragonite. Serperior forms a splendid partnership with Mega Diancie, as Serperior checks bulky Water-types like Gastrodon, and in return, Mega Diancie handles Fire- and Flying-types like Volcarona, Mega Charizard Y, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T and blocks hazards thanks to Magic Bounce. On sand teams, Mega Tyranitar and Sand Rush Excadrill greatly appreciate Serperior handling bulky Water-types like Rotom-W, Seismitoad, and Tapu Fini, as well as the paralysis support that Serperior's Glare provides. In return, Mega Tyranitar solidly answers the likes of Heatran and Tornadus-T, and it can potentially eliminate the latter with Pursuit, while Excadrill is grateful for Serperior pressuring Ground- and Water-type checks like Landorus-T and Mega Swampert. Swords Dance variants of Mega Garchomp also benefit from the paralysis support that Serperior’s Glare provides, crippling faster targets like Mega Latias and Tornadus-T and potentially granting Mega Garchomp extra setup opportunities due to the chance of full paralysis. On sun teams, Fire-type teammates like Mega Charizard Y and Victini greatly benefit from Serperior removing Mega Diancie, and in return, they threaten Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Celesteela. The sun provided by Mega Charizard Y also grants Serperior's Hidden Power Fire an extra power boost and allows Serperior to have a higher chance of 2HKOing Celesteela and defensive Magearna with a boosted Hidden Power Fire. Additionally, both Fire-types benefit from the paralysis from Serperior's Glare crippling targets like Toxapex and Mega Latias, and the chance of full paralysis prevents them from healing, allowing these Fire-types to break through these targets more easily. Leaf Storm, Serperior's typical snowballing motif, perhaps synergizes more with Choice Scarf than any other of the items, locking into a single move that handles boosting and cleaning simultaneously. With Serperior's unique Speed tier, Glare can be a lifeline against Speed-boosting threats like Mega Charizard X and opposing Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T and Kartana, and it acts as a pseudo-coverage move to irritate anything that shrugs off Leaf Storm. Though a Choice Scarf Serperior makes for quite a lousy Defogger, its inclusion on the set can come in clutch for teams not particularly weak to entry hazards, and it can work as a secondary Defogger alongside a more consistent teammate. Knock Off is another option to harass defensive walls like Chansey, Heatran, and Celesteela to assist its team in whittling them down. A bulkier EV spread isn't entirely necessary, as the main draw of this set is using its great Speed tier to clean up offensive teams with repeated Leaf Storms, so a fully offensive spread is chosen here. As an offensively inclined Choice Scarf user, the main idea is to set up an endgame where opposing Grass-resistant Pokemon are too weak to handle Leaf Storm. Luckily for Serperior, its common answers on offense teams tend not to last forever, with the likes of Assault Vest Magearna and Mega Mawile lacking longevity and others like Volcarona and the Mega Charizard formes necessitating a field clear of Stealth Rock. Entry hazards can give Serperior a more active role in setting the scene for its own late-game sweep, as they compound with Leaf Storm and benefit greatly from Knock Off removing Leftovers from the likes of Heatran. Even in matches where Serperior has no late-game future, it can still squeeze out plenty of value mid- or late-game with its utility movepool, being able to sacrificially throw itself at the likes of Mega Charizard X and Volcarona to paralyze them or to force hazard removal to set up a teammate in a pinch. This set is best fit as an anti-offense option for your own offense team, generally, as it needs heavy support in breaking down Grass-resistant Pokemon and can offer much more safety against opposing boosting threats. Both Protean and Battle Bond Greninja make for great teammates, both having crucial Spikes support in common. A Hidden Power Fire variant of Protean Greninja is especially useful, as it has the huge benefit of baiting in and weakening Ferrothorn, Celesteela, and Mega Scizor, while Battle Bond naturally draws in and chips Assault Vest Magearna and can force out Heatran. Heatran itself is a great partner for Serperior, setting crucial Stealth Rock to dig into Serperior's offensive checks like Kyurem-B, the various other Fire-types, and threatening Steel-types like little else. Garchomp is another option for an entry hazard setter that can soft-check Fire-types and punch a hole with Rockium Z. Fightinium Z and Choice Band variants of Tapu Bulu and Kartana are some of the most consistent lures for Steel-types; Tapu Bulu has the downside of increasing the longevity of some of Serperior's checks but does boost the potency of Leaf Storm. Nature Power paired with Normalium Z provides Serperior with an extra coverage option if it is paired with Tapu Koko or Tapu Fini, letting it lure in and eliminate Tornadus-T with Thunderbolt and Dragon-types like Kommo-o and Kyurem-B with Moonblast. However, this forces Serperior to give up Substitute, leaving it vulnerable to status attempts such as Toxic from Toxapex. Serperior can make use of other Hidden Power types, such as Hidden Power Rock to handle the likes of Zapdos, Mega Charizard Y, and Volcarona, Hidden Power Ground to take on Heatran, and Hidden Power Ice to blow through Dragonite. However, giving up Hidden Power Fire is not desirable, as it leaves Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, Magnezone, and Skarmory able to switch in more freely. Synthesis enables Serperior to stay healthy to continue checking bulky Water-types like Tapu Fini and Slowbro. The support from the sun provided by Mega Charizard Y also allows Serperior to regain more health with Synthesis. However, sand and rain can reduce the amount of HP that Serperior can recover. Grassium Z can be used to turn a boosted Leaf Storm into a one-time nuke and deal massive damage to targets like Chansey and Magearna.
Serperior (SS competitive strategy): Serperior plays a unique role in the metagame, as its Speed and ability in Contrary allow it to quickly threaten a sweep through repeated Leaf Storms granting it +2 Special Attack on each use, and combined with its ability to reliably dish out paralysis to its checks, it's both crucial team support and a threatening late-game sweeper. Hidden Power Fire ensures Serperior is not walled by Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Corviknight. Substitute allows Serperior to either capitalize on switches forced by Leaf Storm, or take advantage of more passive Water-types such as Toxapex and Slowking, easing prediction. Glare is generally preferred, as paralysis is key in crippling its checks, such as Corviknight and Amoonguss, and allows Serperior to support slow wallbreakers, but Leech Seed is an option to more safely break through Blissey and Heatran while remaining safe behind Substitute. 56 HP EVs are used so that Rotom-W's Hydro Pump and Ferrothorn's Power Whip don't break Substitute. Generally, Serperior pairs well with Pokemon that benefit from the paralysis support, as it lets them bypass their low speed, and it pressures their checks. Thus, Pokemon like Mega Medicham, Choice Band Tyranitar, and Mega Mawile make excellent partners. Tyranitar in particular works well with Serperior, as paralysis forces targets like Heatran and Mega Latias to switch, making for easy pickings with Pursuit, clearing the way for Serperior. Melmetal also abuses the paralysis on checks such as Heatran and Corviknight, being able to outspeed and KO them after they have been crippled, and Double Iron Bash's flinch rate paired with paralysis can put any slower foe into a sticky situation. Garchomp and Mega Garchomp are both potent wallbreakers by themselves, but appreciate the paralysis to set up on Heatran more easily and pressure Corviknight more. On hyper offense teams, Manaphy appreciates Glare, as potentially crippling Mega Latias lets Manaphy wallbreak more easily, and a paralyzed Heatran turns into Tail Glow setup fodder. On Sticky Web teams, Serperior's snowballing ability is compounded with Sticky Web slowing down any would-be revenge killer, while Contrary deters the use of Defog, as it would boost Serperior’s evasion instead. When faced with a wall like Corviknight, teammates like Bisharp and Thundurus-T can take advantage of it and set up. A set opting for Synthesis over Substitute and Grassium Z can be used, but without a Substitute, getting off a Glare becomes much riskier on top of Serperior losing much of its ability to punish passive Pokemon like Toxapex. Hidden Power Ground may be used to target Heatran, but leaves Serperior walled by many of the metagame's common Grass-type resists with the only target being Heatran. A set consisting of Leech Seed, Glare, Leaf Storm, and Substitute also seems potent, but requires much more support to function properly and still leaves Serperior walled by many bulky Grass resists.
Serperior (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Serperior takes advantage of its already respectable Speed stat to lean into its snowballing potential with Contrary and Leaf Storm, outspeeding Pokemon like Zamazenta and Darkrai. Unlike other Serperior sets that aim to break past Grass-resistant Pokemon with Tera Blast or by fishing for full paralysis using Substitute and Glare, this set serves as a late-game cleaner, breaking through teams with the sheer power of Leaf Storm. Knock Off is run to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from defensive answers like Moltres, Dragonite, and Blissey; Assault Vest from Galarian Slowking, Tornadus-T, and Kyurem; and Light Clay from dual screens Deoxys-S. Giga Drain is run to preserve Leaf Storm's PP while still hitting Great Tusk and Dondozo hard. Glare is particularly useful to cripple common switch-ins like Tornadus-T and Dragonite to aid Serperior's teammates like Rillaboom and Gholdengo, and to have an easier time wearing them down late-game. Serperior chooses to run Modest to boost the power of its Leaf Storm, but Timid can be run to outspeed maximum Speed Deoxys-S, Speed Protosynthesis Walking Wake, and Iron Treads after a Rapid Spin. Serperior opts to run Tera Grass to boost the damage output of its Leaf Storm further, threatening to OHKO maximum HP Zamazenta and maximum Special Defense Iron Treads at +2. Choice Scarf Serperior is usually run on Grassy Terrain teams alongside Rillaboom, which can force in and cripple Pokemon like Moltres and Dragonite with Knock Off and deal significant damage to Iron Moth, Tornadus-T, and Gholdengo. Rillaboom sometimes chooses to run Terrain Extender to give Serperior more chances to fire off its boosted Leaf Storm. With the boost from Tera Grass and Grassy Terrain, Leaf Storm can OHKO Dragapult and Assault Vest Hatterene at +2. Pokemon like Zamazenta and Great Tusk appreciate Serperior crippling shared checks like Moltres and Tornadus-T with Glare and Knock Off while also switching into Pokemon like Kingambit, which threatens Choice-locked Serperior with Sucker Punch. Zamazenta is especially nice as a partner, as it can threaten Heatran and Kingambit, both of which take a Leaf Storm very easily. Pairing Serperior's Knock Off with Stealth Rock setters like Landorus-T can wear down many of Serperior's switch-ins, like Moltres and Assault Vest Kyurem. Pokemon with the ability Pressure, such as Corviknight and Kyurem, can be annoying to deal with because of Leaf Storm's low PP. Nasty Plot Gholdengo is a good partner for Serperior, as it threatens both of these Pokemon and other Serperior answers like Iron Crown and Galarian Slowking. Serperior is often paired with Kingambit as well, since it forces out common Grass-resistant foes like Galarian Slowking, Iron Crown, and Kyurem. Serperior fills the role of a late-game sweeper for offensive teams that snowballs quickly while attacking thanks to Contrary Leaf Storm. Tera Blast gives Serperior the strong coverage that it sorely lacks, as without Terastallizing, Serperior is very prone to being walled. Tera Blast Ground is the most ideal choice, as it deals heavy damage to Pokemon like Heatran, Galarian Slowking, Raging Bolt, and Gholdengo that do not fear Leaf Storm. Tera Blast Fire trades a strong hit on Pokemon like Galarian Slowking, Heatran, and the Dragon-types for a way to immediately threaten Corviknight and Skarmory as well as common Air Balloon users like Gholdengo and Kingambit. Glare is used to punish the switches Serperior often forces, allowing it to cripple common answers like Heatran and Skeledirge without having to commit to using Tera. Dragon Pulse gives a non-Tera reliant way to deal with common Dragon-types like Raging Bolt, Dragonite, and Kyurem. Substitute allows Serperior to scout switches and fish for full paralysis turns while also blocking status such as Toxic from Gliscor, resulting in easier setup. Additionally, having a Substitute up forces many faster potential revenge killers like Zamazenta and Darkrai to risk a strong hit or paralysis to break it. Leftovers helps to keep Serperior healthy throughout the match, most notably allowing it to make more Substitutes. The Tera types chosen are primarily to aid in coverage, but they also have a few defensive applications of note. Tera Ground can enable Serperior to safely use Substitute against Sludge Bomb from Galarian Slowking in a pinch, potentially allowing for a free turn of setup. It also prevents Thunder Wave Infiltrator Dragapult from paralyzing Serperior though a Substitute. Tera Fire allows Serperior to resist Triple Axel from Meowscarada and Weavile, a move that otherwise threatens to OHKO Serperior even through a Substitute, as well as U-turn from both Cinderace and Meowscarada. Serperior only fits on heavily offensive teams, primarily Sticky Web offense. Ribombee is a great teammate, as it is the premier Sticky Web setter. Sticky Web allows Serperior to outspeed otherwise faster Pokemon like non-Clear Body Dragapult and Booster Energy Iron Valiant. In turn, threat of a Contrary Evasion boost from Defog or a Contrary Speed boost from its own Sticky Web due to Court Change helps to ensure that entry hazards stay up. For the same reason, Serperior helps to shore up an offensive team's matchup against opposing Sticky Web teams because of the threat of a Speed boost. Serperior is very Tera reliant, so it wants teammates that can help it to make the most of the Tera investment and do not need Tera themselves like Gholdengo and Zamazenta. It is best used alongside Pokemon that appreciate paralysis support and provide heavy offensive pressure, like Kingambit and Raging Bolt. Other entry hazard leads like Hisuian Samurott and Glimmora also support Serperior well, as many of Serperior's checks are grounded such as Raging Bolt and Galarian Slowking, making them vulnerable to Spikes and Toxic Spikes. Landorus-T is another good teammate for Serperior, as it provides Stealth Rock, uses U-turn to get Serperior in safely against common Pokemon like Gliscor, and threatens Serperior's checks like Heatran and Galarian Slowking with Earthquake. Arguably the biggest threat to Serperior is Gholdengo, as it can repeatedly switch into Leaf Storm and is immune to Glare. Galarian Slowking similarly cares very little about Leaf Storm and does not mind the Speed drop from paralysis. Kingambit is a good partner, as it can switch in against both of these Pokemon and threaten them with heavy damage. Kingambit also appreciates paralysis on Pokemon like Corviknight and Kyurem, which Kingambit can beat one-on-one thanks to the Speed drop. Kyurem dislikes risking paralysis but takes little damage from Serperior and heavily threatens it and many of Serperior's frail offensive teammates. Teammates like Air Balloon Gholdengo can help to sponge Kyurem's hits while adding more offensive pressure. Gholdengo can use Nasty Plot-boosted attacks like Shadow Ball and Psyshock to help break Galarian Slowking, Blissey, and Clodsire for Serperior while blocking hazard removal. Iron Valiant can help to wear down shared checks like the previously mentioned Poison-types, especially with Knock Off or Calm Mind sets, while Raging Bolt can similarly can be used to chip down special walls with Calm Mind-boosted attacks. Lastly, Rillaboom can provide Knock Off and U-turn on top of setting Grassy Terrain that can boost Leaf Storm and help Serperior to make more Substitutes.
Iron Hands (SV competitive strategy): Swords Dance Iron Hands carves a decent niche as an extremely bulky and hard-hitting wallbreaker as well as a physical tank capable of outdamaging and outlasting most other physical attackers. Drain Punch greatly enhances Iron Hands's longevity, allowing it to heal itself out of 2HKO range against threats like Ogerpon-W, Ting-Lu, and all-out attacking Zamazenta variants while maintaining significant offensive pressure. Close Combat is a solid alternative; while it completely sacrifices the added longevity from Drain Punch, its astonishing damage output—outdamaging a super effective Ice Punch against neutral targets—allows Iron Hands to wallbreak more easily. This gives it a high chance to OHKO Raging Bolt after Stealth Rock damage with Booster Energy active while outright OHKOing the likes of maximum HP Great Tusk and uninvested Zamazenta with Booster Energy and a Swords Dance boost. Thunder Punch is a consistent and reliable option that KOes the likes of Primarina, Skarmory, and Corviknight while also offering a stronger hit against Fairy-types like Clefable, Enamorus, and Iron Valiant. Supercell Slam is a significantly stronger alternative, boasting a high chance to OHKO Corviknight after Stealth Rock damage and 2HKO Clefable and bulky Gholdengo variants outright. However, the risk of Iron Hands suffering disastrous recoil damage if it misses or if the opponent switches into a Ground-type can be unappealing. Ice Punch rounds out Iron Hands's coverage with a strong attack against Dragon-types like Dragapult and Dragonite, as well as Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gliscor. If Iron Hands opts to run Drain Punch over Close Combat, Ice Punch is also its strongest attack into Raging Bolt and Great Tusk. The massive one-time Attack boost from Booster Energy cranks up Iron Hands's damage to absurd levels, allowing it to reach crucial OHKO and 2HKO benchmarks against Raging Bolt, Great Tusk, Skarmory, and Clefable with Close Combat and Supercell Slam. Shuca Berry is a great alternative, particularly on Tera Fire variants, to provide Iron Hands with a one-time neutrality to powerful Ground-type attacks like Great Tusk's and Ursaluna's Headlong Rush, Dragonite's Earthquake, or, if Tera Fire, Enamorus's Earth Power, allowing Iron Hands to trade against these threats. Tera Flying allows Iron Hands to turn its exploitable Ground weakness into an immunity, flipping its matchup against Great Tusk in its favor, and allowing it to more easily trade against the aforementioned attackers. Tera Fire is a great alternative, especially when paired with Shuca Berry, to grant Iron Hands a resistance to Fairy-type attacks from Iron Valiant, Enamorus, and Clefable and an immunity to Flame Body from Moltres and Will-O-Wisp from Dragapult, Moltres, and Cinderace. Grassy Seed can be considered when paired with Rillaboom to provide a one-time Defense boost, dramatically improving Iron Hands's longevity, particularly against defensive Great Tusk, allowing it to more easily set up a Swords Dance and start throwing out powerful boosted attacks. The Speed EVs let Iron Hands outspeed uninvested base 60s like Clefable and Primarina; after maximizing its Attack, the remaining EVs improve Iron Hands's lower special bulk. Iron Hands generally fits best on dual screens and Aurora Veil teams, which can support its setup by rendering it extremely difficult to 2HKO and nearly impossible to OHKO. Alolan Ninetales is far and away the best dual screens setter thanks to Aurora Veil and as such is a fantastic teammate for Iron Hands. On these teams, Iron Hands can help wallbreak against threats like Dondozo, Corviknight, Skarmory, Clodsire, and Blissey to support faster setup sweepers like Zamazenta, Dragonite, and Raging Bolt that struggle against these defensive threats. In return, their higher Speed or powerful priority attacks can patch up Iron Hands's less-than-stellar matchup against faster offensive teams. Great Tusk is a solid teammate that provides Rapid Spin support to preserve Iron Hands's precious HP. It also benefits from Iron Hands's ability to remove the likes of Dondozo, Corviknight, and Skarmory should Great Tusk opt to run a fast Bulk Up set. Iron Hands is a tremendous defensive answer to Kingambit, which requires either Low Kick alongside a Swords Dance boost and multiple fainted allies, or the highly committal Tera Blast Fairy, to even have a chance to KO a healthy Iron Hands. Kingambit is then easily dispatched by a Fighting-type attack if it doesn't Terastallize. Offensive threats that appreciate Kingambit's removal, with Gholdengo and Dragapult being standout options among these, make for great teammates, as they can more easily spam their powerful Ghost-type STAB moves without worrying about Kingambit resisting them. Iron Hands is quite solid on Grassy Terrain teams with Rillaboom, which can support it by letting it run Grassy Seed as an item, granting it much-needed passive recovery, and even cutting Earthquake's damage to make Iron Hands incredibly difficult to eliminate. Rillaboom and its frequent partner Hawlucha enjoy Iron Hands's removal of Corviknight, Skarmory, Moltres, Zapdos, and Dragonite, letting them clean up late-game after Iron Hands tears holes in the opposing team. Iron Hands can also function on more standard offensive teams due to its solid breaking power and hit-taking capabilities. On these teams, Landorus-T can use Intimidate alongside U-turn to pivot Iron Hands in safely, give it opportunities to wallbreak, and can support its wallbreaking capabilities further with Stealth Rock. Pecharunt can support Iron Hands by more safely answering Iron Defense Zamazenta, which can give Iron Hands some issues.
Okidogi (SV competitive strategy): Assault Vest-boosted mixed bulk and a strong offensive and defensive typing render Okidogi a potent bulky attacker able to make considerable progress throughout the game with the combination of Knock Off and Toxic Chain. Defensively, resistances to Dark and Fighting and a neutrality to Fairy let Okidogi respond to Pokemon like Zamazenta, Darkrai, and Iron Valiant and find ample opportunities to begin forcing progress. Offensively, Okidogi's Poison typing heavily discourages Fairy-types like Clefable and Primarina from attempting to absorb Knock Off, while its Fighting-type STAB move makes it especially threatening to certain poison-immune foes like Kingambit and Garganacl that can avoid Toxic Chain. Knock Off both removes items from switch-ins like Moltres and Great Tusk and rounds out Okidogi's coverage against would-be checks like Gholdengo, Pecharunt, and Galarian Slowking. Lastly, Ice Punch provides valuable coverage against checks like Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Dragonite. 16 Speed EVs let Okidogi outspeed Adamant Kingambit and Ursaluna, letting it serve as a secondary check to them. Tera Water is a robust defensive typing that lets Okidogi shed its Ground- and Psychic-type weaknesses to become a more effective check to Enamorus and Hatterene while improving its matchup into wallbreakers like Walking Wake and Primarina. Alternatively, Tera Dark flips Okidogi's Psychic weakness into an immunity, turning the tables on Gholdengo and Iron Valiant carrying Psyshock, and confers a Ghost resistance alongside STAB on Knock Off to more strongly threaten Pecharunt and Gholdengo. Assault Vest Okidogi slots comfortably into balance teams in need of a strong progress-maker able to sponge hits from offensive threats like Iron Valiant and Darkrai and punch holes into common physical walls like Zapdos, Zamazenta, and Moltres. Okidogi is highly vulnerable to entry hazard damage, as it repeatedly enters the field to force progress, and it thus greatly appreciates the hazard removal provided by Great Tusk. Okidogi answers fast threats like Iron Valiant and Zamazenta that scare Great Tusk out, while Great Tusk is able to provide more consistent hazard removal with less fear of Moltres and Pecharunt, helping Okidogi maintain its longevity. Ting-Lu is a synergistic defensive teammate that answers threats like Iron Moth and Iron Crown that trouble Okidogi. Beyond handling Fighting- and Fairy-types like Iron Valiant and Zamazenta that scare out Ting-Lu, both work together to hold off threats like Darkrai and Gholdengo, and Ting-Lu's ability to set entry hazards greatly complements Okidogi's ease of removing items. This greatly enables powerful teammates like Ogerpon-W, which shreds through checks to Okidogi like Great Tusk and Corviknight in return. Likewise, Dragonite provides a switch-in to threatening Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gliscor and easily picks off weakened teams with Extreme Speed. Kingambit is another brutal endgame cleaner that scares out Psychic-types like Iron Crown and Latios that threaten Okidogi and greatly appreciates their shared checks being weakened. Okidogi takes on top-tier threats such as Zamazenta, Darkrai, and Kingambit while becoming a scary offensive threat with Bulk Up and Drain Punch to keep itself healthy. It can also take on other Iron Defense users such as Corviknight and Garganacl. Knock Off removes items from switch-ins such as Zapdos and Moltres, which threaten it immensely, while also hitting Gholdengo for big damage. Ice Punch hits Gliscor and Landorus-T, which could otherwise trade with it. Guard Dog allows Okidogi to ignore Roar from Zamazenta, Whirlwind from Ting-Lu, and Red Card from Glimmora while also giving it an Attack boost from Landorus-T's Intimidate, meaning that it cannot be weakened by Intimidate from frequent switch-ins. 96 Speed EVs let Okidogi outspeed Modest Primarina and Jolly Kingambit, with the rest being put into HP and Special Defense to help Okidogi take on Pokemon such as Darkrai and Iron Valiant a lot more easily. Tera Water allows Okidogi to take hits from Ogerpon-W and Walking Wake effectively, and it removes Okidogi's Ground weakness to allow it to take on Great Tusk and Gliscor while being a generally good Tera type. Okidogi fits best on bulky offense and balance teams where it can help wall a large proportion of the metagame while outputting offensive pressure. Kingambit is a great partner to Okidogi, as Okidogi can take on the Fighting-types that it struggles against, such as Zamazenta and Iron Valiant, while Kingambit takes on the Psychic-types that scare out Okidogi, such as Galarian Slowking and Latios. Together, they can also overwhelm Pokemon that check them, such as Landorus-T and Great Tusk. Specially defensive pivots such as Galarian Slowking and Iron Crown can switch into the special attackers that threaten Okidogi, such as Zapdos and Raging Bolt. In return, Okidogi can utilize their pivoting options in order to take on Pokemon that they may struggle with, such as Kingambit and Dragonite. Physical attackers such as Dragonite and Ogerpon-W pair well with Okidogi, as they appreciate it wearing down physical walls with Knock Off while taking on Pokemon like Zamazenta or Corviknight that they may struggle with. Spikes setters such as Ting-Lu and Hisuian Samurott pair well with Okidogi, as they can help Okidogi wear down its checks, such as Gholdengo and Great Tusk, with chip damage. They can also check Pokemon such as Gholdengo that Okidogi may struggle more against. In return, Okidogi takes on Fighting-types such as Iron Valiant and Zamazenta, which they may struggle with, while also taking on Corviknight, which can clear away their Spikes with Defog.
Avalugg (XY competitive strategy): Avalugg's access to Rapid Spin allows it to support its team by only removing entry hazards on your side while not removing the hazards you have set up, unlike Defog. Avalugg's colossal Defense, along with its high HP stat, allows it to take almost any physical hit with ease, making it a good check to physical attackers, such as Dodrio and Stoutland. A high Attack stat also allows Avalugg to retaliate after being hit, and even without any Attack investment, Avalugg still deals decent damage. Avalugg's reliable recovery in Recover allows it to function as a tank and use Rapid Spin more often. However, Avalugg's bad defensive typing in Ice grants it many weaknesses and only one resistance, making it vulnerable to many Pokemon. Avalugg's extremely low Speed also makes it very hard to use Rapid Spin effectively, as it usually has to take a hit first. Avalugg's Special Defense is also abysmal, and needs to be invested in to prevent Avalugg from being extremely vulnerable to special attacks. Avalugg also lacks a reliable Ice-type STAB move and has to rely on Avalanche, which requires the opponent to hit Avalugg for any decent damage to be done. Avalugg's weakness to Stealth Rock and vulnerability to Spikes and Toxic Spikes detracts from its role as a spinner, and it also fails to get past most Ghost-types that try to block Rapid Spin. Avalugg is a decent spinner in the tier due to it being the bulkiest one with actual offensive presence, and should be considered for any hazard-weak team. Unlike Defog, Rapid Spin removes hazards on your side of the field while preserving those that you have set on the opposing side of the field. Recover gives Avalugg a form of recovery, which is ideal for a tank, allowing it to use Rapid Spin more often. Avalanche is Avalugg's main STAB attack, stopping it from being Taunt bait and allowing it to mess with opposing Pokemon that attempt to come in. Earthquake is a coverage move that hits Fire-, Rock-, and Steel-type Pokemon super effectively. Roar allows Avalugg to deal with set up sweepers, forcing them out. However, Toxic is an option in the last slot to cripple opposing walls, such as Prinplup. 248 HP EVs maximize Avalugg's bulk, while minimizing the amount of damage Avalugg takes from Stealth Rock. 252 Special Defense EVs with a Careful nature patch up Avalugg's mediocre Special Defense. While all of Avalugg's abilities are relatively useless, Sturdy guarantees Avalugg one Rapid Spin when it's at full health. Holding a Leftovers provides passive recovery. An Impish nature can be used to increase Avalugg's defense a bit and give more insurance against threats such as Superpower Stoutland and Iron Head Pawniard, but using maximum Defense investment is not recommended, as Avalugg will take only marginally less damage from physical attacks, while taking significantly more damage from special attacks. An alternate spread of 248 HP / 252 Atk / 8 Def with an Adamant nature and a moveset of Rapid Spin, Avalanche, Earthquake or Crunch, and Recover is an option if you'd rather have Avalugg function as an offensive tank with Rapid Spin as a support option. This set could also opt for Crunch over Recover to hit Ghost-type Pokemon that attempt to switch in. Avalugg is best used staying in and using Rapid Spin when it finds the opportunity, such as against physical attackers that can't do much damage to it. Avalugg is very bulky, but it should not be relied on to take special hits. Keeping Avalugg healthy with Recover, which allows it to use Rapid Spin more often, is key to using it properly. The best time to use Recover is when Avalugg is just above 50% of its health, to benefit from Sturdy. Due to Avalugg's insanely high Defense stat, it can check most physical attackers that don't have a super effective STAB move. Lastly, be very careful when using Rapid Spin if the opponent has a Ghost-type, as Ghost-types are able to block Rapid Spin and can potentially burn Avalugg; instead, try wearing them down with Avalanche. Avalugg works best on teams that rely on entry hazards yet are weak to them, as Defog users are counterproductive on these teams. Pokemon that patch up Avalugg's weaknesses, such as Gabite, make for great partners. Pokemon that benefit from Avalugg's Rapid Spin support, such as Rapidash, Simipour, and Dodrio, all make for great partners. Clerics such as Audino and Grumpig can remove poison and burns, which easily cripple Avalugg. In a similar vein, Poison-types such as Roselia can remove Toxic Spikes, which are usually a problem for Avalugg, while Fire-types such as Rapidash and Ninetales can absorb Will-O-Wisp and break through Ghost-types with their STAB moves. Roselia and Ninetales are also able to take special hits, which threaten Avalugg. While using an offensive tank set with three attacks and Recover seems appealing, the loss of Rapid Spin is very detrimental, as it is one of Avalugg's biggest niches. Mirror Coat with Sturdy is an option to gain surprise KOs on special attackers. Lastly, a physically defensive EV spread is not beneficial, as Avalugg will only take about 10% less damage from physical attacks, at the cost of taking about 30% more damage from special attacks.
Avalugg (SM competitive strategy): With great physical bulk, reliable recovery, and access to Rapid Spin, Avalugg can find itself a niche role on stall teams in the ZU metagame. Thanks to its sky-high Defense stat, Avalugg can stomach hits from a variety of physical attackers in the tier including Pinsir, Choice Band Komala, and Torterra. Rapid Spin allows it to remove entry hazards for the team, especially against certain Stealth Rock users such as Torterra, Sandslash, Marowak, and Gabite due to its great matchup versus them. However, since Avalugg is a grounded pure Ice-type, it is weak to entry all forms of entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock, and is unable to beat entry hazard setters such as Mawile, Bronzor, and Explosion Golem, thus not making it the best form of entry hazard removal in the tier. In addition, its extremely low Special Defense stat leaves it vulnerable to special attackers such as Combusken, Swanna, and Electivire. Avalugg faces tough competition as a form of entry hazard removal, as Sandslash and Komala provide better role compression and are not weak to Stealth Rock. Lastly, Avalugg is only truly viable on stall teams and requires a considerable amount of support from its teammates, such as a special wall like Bronzor, to take special hits for it. Rapid Spin allows Avalugg to switch in on entry hazard setters such as Torterra, Sandslash, Marowak, Crustle, and Smeargle and remove Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Sticky Web to support the team. Avalanche gives Avalugg an Ice-type STAB move that move has great synergy with Avalugg's slow base Speed and high base Attack, dealing great damage if Avalugg is hit first on that turn. Toxic can be used to cripple switch-ins such as Gourgeist-XL, Combusken, and Simipour, which provides more utility. Roar allows Avalugg to phaze Pokemon that try to set up on it such as Silvally-Fighting, Pinsir, and Pawniard. Maximum HP and Defense investment alongside an Impish nature allows Avalugg to become the best physical wall it can be to take on Swords Dance users such as Pinsir and Leafeon. Sturdy is Avalugg's best ability, as it gives it the opportunity to phaze a setup sweeper or OHKO a threat with Avalanche such as Altaria or Marowak when at full HP. Leftovers gives Avalugg passive recovery, while Rocky Helmet wears down physical attackers using contact moves such as Komala. Switch Avalugg in on physical attackers such as Pinsir, Komala, Torterra, and Marowak, as Avalugg can take their hits quite comfortably. Also, directly switch in Avalugg on a predicted Stealth Rock from setters that it can spin on and beat such as Torterra, Sandslash, Marowak, and Gabite. It is best to keep Avalugg as healthy as possible throughout the match, as it can continually check physical attackers and remove entry hazards when needed. Therefore, Avalugg will have to use Recover a considerable amount, potentially letting it be taken advantage of. Avalugg is also able to throw out a Toxic on a predicted switch-in as well as Toxic stall a majority of physical attackers. Use Roar to phaze setup sweepers such as Swords Dance Pinsir and Silvally-Fighting. It is best to avoid Toxic poison from Bronzor, as that will then put a timer on Avalugg. If this happens, it is best to switch out Avalugg for a Heal Bell user to cure Avalugg of status. Avalugg must also avoid taking special hits, as its poor special bulk will not allow it to take special attacks from Combusken, Swanna, and Simisear. Against these foes, it is best to switch out Avalugg for Pokemon better suited to handle special attacks. Special walls such as Bronzor, Mareanie, and Lickilicky can sponge special attacks that threaten Avalugg; in return, Avalugg can take physical hits for them. Lickilicky is especially notable, as it also provides Wish support and can serve as a cleric with Heal Bell. Altaria and Beheeyem can beat Ghost-types such as Gourgeist-XL and Dusknoir that attempt to act as a spinblocker to Avalugg. Defoggers such as Silvally-Fighting and Vibrava can remove Toxic Spikes and Stealth Rock so that Avalugg does not get whittled down too far over the course of the match, and Poison-types like Mareanie and Muk can absorb Toxic Spikes. Silvally-Dragon, Gourgeist-XL, and Pyukumuku can be excellent partners for Avalugg, as they complement its weaknesses and can check Pokemon such as Combusken, Silvally-Water, Silvally-Fighting, and Floatzel. Earthquake can be used to catch Pokemon such as Probopass, Combusken, Raichu, and Simisear as they switch in, as they all can take advantage of Avalugg. It is generally not preferred, however, as Avalugg must forego using Toxic or Roar in the last slot, and the utility those two moves provide is superior.
Avalugg (SS competitive strategy): Avalugg is listed as an unviable option in SS ZU due to its awful Special Defense and mediocre typing, which hold it back from performing a defensive role well. This makes it greatly outclassed as an entry hazard remover by the likes of Cryogonal and Articuno, since they have better overall stats and useful abilities. As a physical wall, Miltank and Tangela are preferred because they aren't as weak to the super common Knock Off and Toxic, have better movepools, stat distribution, and are able to handle some of the most common physical attackers in the tier like Sawk and Klinklang. Avalugg attempts to perform the role of entry hazard remover and physically defensive wall. However, its typing and horrible Special Defense make it very hard for it to wall anything and make it easy to take down. Other physically defensive walls like Tangela and Miltank are more equipped to take on the tier with better typing, stats, and support movepools. There are also much better options like Crygonal and Articuno, which can remove hazards much more easily with the help of their better stats and movepool.
Avalugg (SV competitive strategy): Avalugg's exceptional physical bulk and access to Rapid Spin and Recover make it one of the best physical walls in the tier for balanced and defensive teams. Avalugg can comfortably take some of the most powerful physical attacks in the tier, such as Basculegion-M's Wave Crash and Staraptor's Brave Bird, as well as super effective attacks from Fighting-types such as Infernape and Paldean Tauros-W. Avalugg can also dish out serious damage by weaponizing its Defense stat with Body Press and hitting hard with moves like Avalanche and Earthquake, thanks to its high Attack stat. However, Avalugg is extremely frail on the special side, which allows special wallbreakers such as Munkidori and Porygon-Z to easily force it out. Avalugg's Ice typing makes it weak to common physical wallbreakers in the tier like Incineroar, Paldean Tauros-F, and Flamigo and heavily reliant on Terastallization to wall many physical threats. Avalugg is also very susceptible to Knock Off, since it relies on Heavy-Duty Boots to circumvent its Stealth Rock weakness. Body Press utilizes Avalugg's Defense stat to threaten 2HKOs or 3HKOs on most offensive threats while hitting bulky Steel-types for super effective damage. Body Press also threatens attackers such as Tera Steel Flygon and Incineroar. Since Avalugg is slower than nearly the entire metagame, Avalanche is a great STAB option. However, Ice Spinner can sometimes be preferable for more consistent damage and can remove Terrain, which helps Avalugg and its team against Grassy Terrain offense teams. Earthquake deals super effective damage to Fire-, Poison-, and Electric-type wallbreakers that try to take advantage of Avalugg, such as Chandelure, Munkidori, and Toxtricity. Sturdy allows Avalugg to always survive a single attack in a pinch and retaliate. When paired with Alolan Ninetales, though, Ice Body can be used to capitalize on its snow to gain passive recovery. Tera Poison gives Avalugg a great defensive typing, providing it with a resistance to Fighting and making it immune to poison and Toxic, which would otherwise cripple it, from Alolan Muk and Amoonguss. Alternatively, Tera Water grants Avalugg important resistances to Fire, Steel, and Water, letting it better withstand attacks from threats like Incineroar, Copperajah, and Basculegion-M. Avalugg's entry hazard control and high Defense is appreciated by many teamstyles from balance to stall. However, Avalugg's abysmal Special Defense means that it benefits greatly from blanket special walls such as Porygon2, Registeel, and Milotic, which can switch into the many special attackers that force Avalugg out like Toxtricity, Diancie, and Chandelure. Fire- and Fighting-type wallbreakers like Paldean Tauros-F, Flamigo, and Breloom can overwhelm Avalugg, meaning Pokemon that can switch into their attacks, such as Chandelure, Gligar, and Amoonguss, are good partners. Avalugg struggles to threaten Ghost-types like Chandelure and Hisuian Typhlosion with its attacks, especially if it lacks Earthquake, making Dark-types such as Incineroar and Alolan Muk good partners for it. These two can also burn and poison wallbreakers, making it much easier for Avalugg to outlast them. Bulky Water-types, such as Vaporeon, Gastrodon, and Milotic, can pose a huge problem for Avalugg, as they have powerful special attacks and are difficult to switch out of due to the risk of Scald burning an incoming Pokemon. Water-immune Pokemon such as Vaporeon and Toxicroak can help immensely, while status-immune wallbreakers, such as Poison Heal Breloom, Toxtricity, and Guts Hariyama, can force them out or set up on them. Alolan Ninetales outspeeds many Fighting-type wallbreakers that threaten Avalugg, such as Flamigo, Paldean Tauros-F and -W, and Breloom, and can KO them with Moonblast. It also sets snow for Avalugg, boosting its Defense considerably and giving it passive recovery from Ice Body. In return, Avalugg can draw in and dent Steel-type walls, such as Registeel and Copperajah, which are difficult for Alolan Ninetales to get past, by using Body Press and Earthquake. Running IronPress allows Avalugg to become a very threatening sweeper. However, this forces Avalugg to drop a coverage option or Rapid Spin, the former making Avalugg unable to hit Ghost-types, while the latter significantly reduces its utility. Tera Fighting removes Avalugg's weaknesses and makes Avalugg more offensively threatening. Tera Fighting also lets Avalugg resist Stealth Rock, allowing it to switch in more frequently if its Heavy-Duty Boots is removed.
Mudsdale (SM competitive strategy): Mudsdale is a great defensive Stealth Rock setter, using its solid bulk, Stamina, and Ground typing to keep massive threats such as Aggron, Lycanroc, Kangaskhan, Scyther, and Stoutland in check. Because of Mudsdale's high Attack and powerful STAB Earthquake, it has decent offensive presence and is far less passive than other defensive Stealth Rock setters like Regirock and Clefairy are. Mudsdale's usable coverage options and previously mentioned high Attack also allow it to function as a decent wallbreaker with Choice Band. However, Mudsdale suffers from a low Speed of 35, meaning that it will likely take damage before it can use an attack. Its excellent Ground typing also comes with weaknesses to common types such as Water, Grass, and Ice. Mudsdale lacks recovery outside of Rest and recovery items in Leftovers and Figy Berry, meaning that despite its good bulk and ability, it is prone to getting worn down by repeated attacks, status, and entry hazards. Finally, with an overall shallow movepool, Mudsdale is also fairly predictable and is considered a mediocre wallbreaker despite its high Attack, as all of its moves can easily be played around. Toxic whittles foes down, which is especially useful against bulkier or Ground-immune Pokemon such as Tangela, Eelektross and Torterra. Rock Slide hits Ground-resistant Pokemon like Cryogonal, Oricorio-E, Haunter, and Abomasnow. Protect allows Toxic damage to stack, provides a turn of Leftovers recovery, wastes weather and Trick Room turns, and scouts moves of Choice item users like Aurorus. Roar forces the foe out, which helps wear down the opposing team when combined with hazards. It can also be used to remove stat boosts from setup Pokemon like Gurdurr and Type: Null as well as force out standard switch-ins like Poliwrath and Haunter. 252 HP and 172 Defense EVs along with an Impish nature allow Mudsdale to take physical hits such as a Choice Band Return from Stoutland and Choice Scarf Kabutops's Liquidation after Stealth Rock, and then take another after a Stamina boost. The rest of the EVs are placed into Special Defense to better take special attacks from Pokemon such as Oricorio-E. Specifically it helps Mudsdale avoid the 2HKO from Eelektross's Giga Drain after Stealth Rock. Stamina furthers this by boosting Mudsdale's Defense every time it takes a hit. Figy Berry can be used as a single-use form of recovery that can restore a substantial amount of health after Mudsdale gets worn down or potentially allow Mudsdale to avoid a 2HKO, notably helping it beat Stoutland. Leftovers gives Mudsdale a residual form of recovery, making it harder to wear down over time. Rocky Helmet supplies another form of residual damage on top of Stealth Rock and Toxic that can chip physical attackers like Kangaskhan and is especially useful for U-turn users like Scyther and Primeape while Yache Berry lets Mudsdale lure Ice-types like Aurorus and Subzero Slammer Alolan Sandslash, but both Rocky Helmet and Yache Berry leave Mudsdale with no form of recovery. Mudsdale should be used throughout the game to switch into physical attacks from Pokemon like Scyther, Skuntank, and Aggron. However, it has to watch out for status-inflicting moves like Alolan Dugtrio's Toxic, and other utility moves such as Gurdurr's Knock Off. Mudsdale can switch into weaker moves such as Kangaskhan's Fake Out and Hitmonchan's Rapid Spin to receive a relatively free Defense boost from Stamina and supply chip damage if running Rocky Helmet. It can also absorb Volt Switch from Pokemon such as Eelektross, stopping them from switching, but still has to watch out for coverage and utility moves. Stay wary of how easily Mudsdale can be worn down if constantly switching in to take hits, especially if layers of Spikes or Toxic Spikes are on the field. When brought in against Pokemon that are threatened by it, Mudsdale will often force a switch. You can use this as an opportunity to set up Stealth Rock, allowing it to start chipping the opposing team. If Stealth Rock is already up, you can use Toxic on predicted switch-ins like Tangela and Eelektross, double switch to an ideal matchup to gain momentum, or use Roar for chip damage. However, it is notable that while Roar may put you in an ideal matchup, it can also favor the opponent by bringing in a threat to Mudsdale such as Victreebel or Jellicent instead. While Rock Slide may usually be your best option against Flying-types such as Oricorio-G and Swanna, they will often use Roost if at low health, losing their Rock weakness in the process. They also lose their Ground immunity, however, which you can use to create mind games or even potentially KO them with Earthquake. Protect can be used throughout the match to get Leftovers recovery, wear foes down with Toxic, waste turns of weather and Trick Room, and scout Choice item users such as Drampa, but the opponent can predict Protect and use the turn to get a free switch. Setup sweepers like Omastar and Alolan Sandslash can also use Protect or a predicted switch as a chance to set up, so an option is to instead use Roar or go for the KO, although at the risk of them instead simply attacking. Bulky Water-types such as Lanturn, Jellicent, and Poliwrath can help against Ice- and Water-types like Aurorus and Floatzel, with Lanturn also supporting Mudsdale with Heal Bell and providing momentum with Volt Switch. In return, Mudsdale can absorb Electric attacks for Jellicent and Poliwrath. Flying-types like Oricorio-G and Articuno can soak up Grass-type hits from the likes of Torterra and Victreebel for Mudsdale, and appreciate Mudsdale tanking Rock- and Electric-type attacks in return. Oricorio-G can also act as a spinblocker for Mudsdale, and appreciates Mudsdale's ability to lure and poison Eelektross, giving Oricorio-G an opportunity to set up. Grass-types such as Lurantis, Ludicolo, and Victreebel can help with Water- and opposing Grass-types like Carracosta and Tangela, while Mudsdale can check Poison- and Steel-types like Skuntank and Metang. Mudsdale works well on entry hazard stacking teams due to its combination of Stealth Rock and Roar, making Spikes setters such as Qwilfish and Ferroseed good teammates. Qwilfish in particular can use Taunt to block Defog from the likes of Altaria and Silvally-Fairy, pressure other Taunt users like Jellicent and setup sweepers like Gurdurr, and can carry various other utility options such as Toxic Spikes and Will-O-Wisp. In return, Mudsdale can serve as a check to some of their threats like special Skuntank and Hitmonchan. Furthermore, setup sweepers like Omastar and Simisear and wallbreakers such as Aggron and Aurorus appreciate that these hazards, or just Mudsdale's Stealth Rock, can weaken foes to KO range. Due to how often Mudsdale switches in throughout the match, hazard removers like Rotom-F and Cryogonal are vital. Rotom-F can check Water- and Grass- types like Jellicent and Torterra that pressure Mudsdale, and Cryogonal can check check special attackers like Victreebel and Aurorus while appreciating Mudsdale's resistance to Rock. Other specially defensive Pokemon like Eelektross can also help with these special attackers and benefit from Mudsdale's good matchup against physical threats like Stoutland and Primeape, forming a solid defensive core. Heavy Slam is able to do a huge amount of damage to Pokemon that may feel safe switching into an Earthquake like Abomasnow. Rock Slide is used to hit other Flying-types such as Swanna and the Oricorio formes. Close Combat offers a better way to hit Levitate users that resist Heavy Slam, namely Eelektross and Bronzor. Toxic can be used to punish foes that could normally safely switch into Mudsdale like Tangela and wear them down for later, though being locked into Toxic can leave Mudsdale exploited by setup sweepers like Bellossom and Oricorio-G if they also carry Safeguard or Substitute. Choice Band increases Mudsdale's Attack to allow it to become one of the most powerful physical attackers in the tier and serve as a decent wallbreaker. An Adamant nature maximizes Mudsdale's Attack stat and still allows it to outspeed Pokemon like Audino, Eelektross, and Regirock while also outspeeding neutral natured Carracosta and OHKOing it with Earthquake before Carracosta can attack Mudsdale back. Stamina is Mudsdale's preferred ability, allowing it to check weaker physical attackers by raising its Defense after being hit. Mudsdale is best used as an early-game wallbreaker to do heavy damage to bulkier Pokemon so that the rest of its team can clean late-game. It functions as a stop to Volt Switch with its Ground typing but has to be cautious of super effective coverage that many Electric-types carry. Its Stamina ability can also be used to help it take on physical attackers like Kangaskhan and Hitmonchan fairly well. If Mudsdale is used in the later portion of a game, it will want to come in on something fairly weak and just try to get off as much damage as possible. It should be wary of locking itself into a move if a Pokemon with a resistance or an immunity to that move is still on the opposing team. Like most offensive Pokemon, Mudsdale appreciates entry hazard support from the likes of Qwilfish, Regirock, and Ferroseed to help wear down its checks. Dedicated Water- and Grass-type checks are also good partners to help take on those attacks aimed at Mudsdale. Powerful Fire-types like Combusken and Simisear function well with Mudsdale, as they can help break Grass-types like Tangela, while Mudsdale checks Rock- and Ground-type attacks aimed at them. The best kind of partners for Mudsdale in general are faster Pokemon that appreciate having specially defensive walls broken through. Alolan Persian, Alolan Raichu, and Simisear are all options for this. Setup sweepers like Swords Dance Silvally formes and Turtonator also appreciate Mudsdale's ability to break through their checks like Regirock and Lanturn, respectively. Having hazard control can help Mudsdale survive longer. Swanna is an option for this, as it also handles Qwilfish. An Assault Vest set can be run with a similar spread to the Choice Band set as a bulkier option; however, the power difference is noticeable. Mudsdale's low Speed warrants a mention for its use on a dedicated Trick Room team, though it requires support to break through certain walls and is outclassed by Marowak.
Mudsdale (SS competitive strategy): Mudsdale differentiates itself from other Stealth Rock setters like Copperajah, Galarian Stunfisk, and Diancie by better handling physical attackers such as Drapion, Tyrantrum, and Stakataka. Mudsdale's solid physical bulk, ability in Stamina, and typing help it match offensive power with defensive might to check these wallbreakers. Mudsdale also lacks passivity issues thanks to its high Attack and strong moves in STAB Earthquake and Body Press, the latter of which can take advantage of Stamina boosts. Mudsdale is otherwise far too easily to overwhelm with common special attackers like Starmie, Alolan Exeggutor, and Nasty Plot Salazzle. Additionally, Mudsdale is an ineffective Volt Switch deterrent because the most common Volt Switch users, Rotom-C and Heliolisk, can easily OHKO it with Leaf Storm and Grass Knot, respectively, and it's also very slow. Toxic prevents common switch-ins like Dhelmise, Decidueye, and Mantine from easily exploiting Mudsdale. Protect helps Mudsdale accumulate poison damage, gain extra health from Leftovers, and scout Choice item attackers like Rotom-C and Choice Specs Decidueye. Alternatively, Body Press has good synergy with Stamina and helps against Guzzlord and Braviary. You can consider running 64 Special Defense EVs to avoid Salazzle from OHKOing Mudsdale with +2 Fire Blast, although this benchmark is rarely necessary. A Relaxed nature with 0 Speed IVs minimizes Stakataka's Gyro Ball damage. Mudsdale is vulnerable to powerful special attackers such as Inteleon, Rotom-C, and Starmie, so it benefits from teammates like Sylveon, Assault Vest Copperajah, and Mantine that can take attacks from such foes. Mudsdale is a great answer to opposing Rock-types such as Diancie and Tyrantrum, so pair it with Fire-types like Talonflame, Salazzle, and Arcanine. In return, these Pokemon help against Grass- and Ice-types. Similarly, Mudsdale is effective at luring in and crippling bulky Water-types with Toxic; teammates like Inteleon and Swords Dance Escavalier appreciate this. Mudsdale appreciates the support of Grass-types like Vileplume and Decidueye, which handle opposing Water- and Grass-types. Roar prevents Substitute users like Braviary and Araquanid from taking advantage of Mudsdale as easily as well as bulkier setup sweepers like Scrafty and Snorlax. Iron Defense is similar, although limited to physical setup sweepers, and makes Mudsdale a potent bulky setup sweeper. Payback helps against foes like Decidueye and Dhelmise, but Toxic gets the job done well enough. Choice Band sets make use of Mudsdale's incredible Attack stat and solid coverage moves to turn it into a good wallbreaker, although it's very prediction reliant and at risk of being setup fodder for foes like Rotom-C and Decidueye.
Mudsdale (SV competitive strategy): With a great ability in Stamina and access to helpful utility moves such as Stealth Rock and Roar, Mudsdale cements itself as a helpful wall in PU that keeps physically offensive Pokemon like Paldean Tauros-F, Flamigo, Zoroark, Emboar, and Arcanine in check. Body Press lets Mudsdale put Stamina to good use, allowing it to get good damage off on Zoroark, Scrafty, and Tera Normal Arcanine. Heavy Slam, on the other hand, hits Flying-types neutrally while also letting Mudsdale hit Fairy-types that could otherwise easily set up in front of it like Scream Tail, Florges, and Grimmsnarl. However, Stone Edge hits Flying-types like Staraptor and Bombirdier super effectively while also threatening Rotom-H. Roar deters setup sweepers like Bulk Up Scrafty, Hariyama, and Calm Mind Galarian Slowbro before they get out of hand. Leftovers improves Mudsdale's longevity, while Rocky Helmet punishes physical attackers like Staraptor and Scyther. Tera Water allows Mudsdale to take on Water-type wallbreakers like Paldean Tauros-W and Tatsugiri in a pinch, but it can no longer check Pawmot and Bellibolt as easily as before. On the other hand, Tera Steel grants Mudsdale the ability to check Fairy-types like Florges and Scream Tail, boosts Heavy Slam's damage output, and helps its matchup versus Galarian Articuno, Goodra, and Decidueye. However, this leaves Mudsdale open to being preyed on by Ground-, Fire-, and Fighting-types like Golurk, Arcanine, and Heracross, which it checked beforehand. When paired with a specially defensive Pokemon like Bronzong, Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro, or Milotic, Mudsdale can form a strong defensive core that's quite difficult to break through. Mudsdale easily checks Fire- and Fighting-types like Arcanine, Emboar, and Flamigo, so Pokemon weak to those types like Rotom-C, Duraludon, and Scrafty can take advantage of its defensive capabilities. Mudsdale tends to falter against Water- and Grass-types like Tatsugiri, Decidueye, and Rotom-C, making partners that can take on these threats like Milotic, Wo-Chien, and Goodra strong defensive options. With Mudsdale's lack of reliable recovery, it greatly appreciates Wish support from Pokemon like Scream Tail and Florges to circumvent this issue. Entry hazards also highlight Mudsdale's lack of reliable recovery, so partners like Defog Altaria, Decidueye, and Rapid Spin Alolan Sandslash help work around this weakness.
Araquanid (SM competitive strategy): Araquanid stands out as one of the most viable setters of Sticky Web thanks to its offensive presence and matchup against key entry hazard removers such as Mega Blastoise, Donphan, and Xatu. A great ability in Water Bubble, a solid Special Defense stat, and resistances to key types in the tier such as Ground, Fighting, and Water also make it capable of handling common threats in the metagame such as Nidoqueen, Slowbro, and Houndoom. However, Araquanid is quite slow and has pitiful physical bulk. A weakness to Stealth Rock also hampers its longevity by quite a bit. Its non-Water-type moves are not very powerful, and thus its movepool contains very few viable attacking options. Lastly, it faces competition as a Sticky Web setter from Ribombee and Galvantula, which are much faster and have similar offensive presence, and the former can also beat other entry hazard removers such as Tsareena that Araquanid has trouble with. Their higher Speed stats also help them fare a bit better against Mega Blastoise. Araquanid makes for a good setter of Sticky Web thanks to its good power and solid defensive attributes. Liquidation is a strong STAB move capable of easily 2HKOing common entry hazard removers such as Donphan and Sigilyph. Magic Coat is capable of bouncing back status moves that can disrupt Araquanid and its team, particularly Taunt. Mirror Coat is used in the last slot to take advantage of Araquanid's naturally good special bulk and to beat Mega Blastoise. Water Bubble boosts the power of Liquidation. Splash Plate complements this, giving Araquanid a significant offensive presence. An Adamant nature and maximum Attack investment increase Araquanid's damage output further still. Maximum Speed investment allows Araquanid to outspeed defensive Pokemon such as Porygon2 and Vaporeon. Once Sticky Web is up, it can also outspeed Florges. Sticky Web should be set when the foe switches out, the opponent's entry hazard remover has fainted, or the current matchup is generally in Araquanid's favor. The threat of Liquidation can also be used to pressure the opponent into giving Araquanid chances to set up Sticky Web. Unlike other setters of Sticky Web such as Ribombee and Galvantula, Araquanid can more easily set it up again if it had been removed earlier in the match thanks to its bulk. Said bulk also allows Araquanid can to switch into entry hazard removers in the tier such as Mega Blastoise and Donphan, and while Knock Off from the latter can do quite a bit of damage to Araquanid, it resists Earthquake and Ice Shard. Magic Coat is best utilized when you predict the opposing Pokemon will use a status move, particularly Stealth Rock from Pokemon like Registeel and Metagross, and Toxic from the likes of Mandibuzz. Mirror Coat is best utilized against special attackers such as Ribombee, Salazzle, and especially Mega Blastoise, which can be 2HKOed by its own reflected Dark Pulse. Slow but powerful wallbreakers such as Tyrantrum, Honchkrow, Bewear, and Machamp heavily benefit from the Speed drops that Sticky Web gives to the opponent's team. To make Rapid Spin usage a bit more difficult, spinblockers such as Mismagius can be utilized as partners to this Araquanid set. Similarly, Pokemon capable of handling common Defog users such as Passimian and Taunt users such as Honchkrow and Mismagius are good partners to this Araquanid set. Additional entry hazard setters such as Roserade and Metagross can complement both Araquanid and other teammates by giving them additional wallbreaking power. These two Pokemon also benefit a lot from Sticky Web. The combination of Substitute and Toxic allows Araquanid to effectively stall out common threats such as Slowbro, Mega Blastoise, and Mandibuzz. Liquidation serves as a strong STAB move backed by Araquanid's Water Bubble ability and is capable of hitting a wide range of Pokemon in the RU metagame neutrally. Leech Life is mainly used to hit Grass-types such as Shaymin, Tangela, and Mega Sceptile; the health recovery from the move is a bonus. Protect can be used over Leech Life to gain free Toxic damage and Leftovers recovery for a turn. However, this tends to leave Araquanid walled by Grass-types as a result. 68 EVs in Speed allow Araquanid to outspeed Pokemon with base 50 Speed such as Registeel and Donphan. Maximum Attack investment makes Araquanid hit as hard as possible. Leftovers offsets the health reduction Substitute provides over time, and 188 HP EVs allow it to regain more health from Leftovers. It also works well alongside Leech Life to provide additional healing capability. Use Substitute when you expect a bulky Pokemon such as Slowbro or Mandibuzz to come into play, and then use Toxic to attempt to outstall them. Araquanid's typing should be utilized for opportunities to switch in on Pokemon like Nidoqueen, Bronzong, and Mega Blastoise. Liquidation's higher power via Water Bubble and better coverage mean that it is usually the more reliable attacking move over Leech Life. When the Pokemon you are trying to outstall resists Liquidation, you should use Toxic instead to apply better pressure. If Protect is used in the last slot, use it when you expect the foe to break Araquanid's Substitute, or as a way to scout for potential moves that may threaten Araquanid. Offensive Pokemon such as Metagross, Machamp, and Houndoom appreciate Araquanid's ability to wear down bulky threats such as Slowbro and Mandibuzz. Cleaners such as Zygarde-10%, Salazzle, and Swellow can take advantage of Araquanid's ability to open holes in the opponent's team. More physically defensive Pokemon such as Rhyperior, Slowbro, and Forretress can help out with Araquanid's weakness to strong physical moves. Lastly, entry hazard removers such as Sigilyph, Donphan, and Tsareena help with Araquanid's vulnerability to Stealth Rock and Spikes, allowing it to set up more Substitutes throughout a match. A set utilizing Spider Web / Liquidation / Leech Life or Toxic / Rest with a Splash Plate or Metronome can be useful, as it can safely remove certain defensive threats in the tier such as Slowbro, Milotic, and Tangela from the match to clear the way for teammates. However, this set isn't popular because one of its main targets, Milotic, is not common enough to justify using and Substitute + Toxic can already handle most of its other targets. More offensive sets without Sticky Web, such as a Choice Band set, can seem like good options considering the power of Araquanid's STAB Liquidation, but these sets are often outclassed by Golisopod, which has access to priority moves and stronger non-Water-type moves. These sets also have trouble breaking through bulky Pokemon that resist Water.
Araquanid (SS competitive strategy): Araquanid's natural Special Defense and typing allow it to set up on many passive Pokemon, namely Vaporeon, and it can also take on many attackers such as Inteleon and Salazzle. It also manages to maintain an offensive presence with Water Bubble-boosted Liquidation. However, its low base Attack and Speed leave it outmatched by opposing wallbreakers like Golurk and Toxicroak, and it struggles if the opposition lacks Pokemon for it to use Substitute on. Its subpar physical bulk also leaves it struggling to capitalize on many of its resistances, so it can take heavy damage trying to switch into the likes of Copperajah and Passimian. Substitute should be used against foes that cannot break past Araquanid, such as Vaporeon; it can also be used against Pokemon that it comfortably scares out, like Mudsdale and Salazzle. From behind a Substitute, Araquanid should use a combination of Liquidation and Toxic to wear down foes. Leech Life provides some extra recovery and is Araquanid's best move against Water-resistant foes like Starmie, Rotom-C, and Guzzlord. 188 Speed EVs are used to outspeed uninvested Vaporeon. Araquanid is most at home when taking advantage of and crippling passive Pokemon like Vaporeon and Mudsdale; this is a great boon for sweepers like Nasty Plot Salazzle. Pokemon like Mudsdale and Diancie also benefit from Araquanid switching into stray Scalds and checking Inteleon. In exchange, they can take on various physical attackers that threaten Araquanid; Mudsdale easily takes on the likes of Tyrantrum and Aerodactyl, while Diancie takes care of Flying-types such as Ninjask. Because Araquanid is still vulnerable to Exploud and Sylveon when behind a Substitute, it appreciates the support of Steel-types like Copperajah and Escavalier to take their attacks. In return, Araquanid threatens the opposition's Ground- and Fire-types. Araquanid is a rare user of Sticky Web, which can be really useful for partners in competitive Speed tiers, like Exploud and Drapion; it can even pull off a dedicated lead set with moves like Magic Coat in such cases. However, such a set is generally regarded as a waste of Araquanid's other talents.
Kommo O (SM competitive strategy): With its unique typing, well-rounded stats, and wide movepool, Kommo-o presents itself as an incredibly versatile force to be reckoned with in the OU tier. Its solid coverage, utility options, and item selection can be customized to cater to its team's needs, allowing it to fulfill several different roles. Its signature Z-Move, Clangorous Soulblaze, turns Kommo-o into one of the scariest late-game cleaners in the tier, as its one-time use boosts all of its stats, which makes it a very effective mixed attacker and harder to revenge kill. Alternatively, it can utilize a Dragon Dance set, which can boost more than once and makes room for Kommo-o to run another Z-Crystal. Kommo-o's Speed stat lets it get the jump on Dragonite before a boost and faster Pokemon like Mega Lopunny and Mega Alakazam after a boost. Its unique typing and solid defensive stats allow it to resist priority moves like Sucker Punch and Water Shuriken and serve as a solid answer to Mega Tyranitar, Heatran, and especially Ash-Greninja. However, Kommo-o's typing leaves it with a crippling 4x weakness to Fairy, which is everywhere in the tier, as well as attacking types like Ice and Psychic. To make Kommo-o's weakness to Fairy-types worse, they can block Clangorous Soulblaze and potentially prevent it from cleaning up late-game. Additionally, it is outpaced by common Pokemon like Tapu Koko and Mega Alakazam before a boost and Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T and Kartana after a boost. Furthermore, Kommo-o can't fit all of the coverage and utility it wants into one set; for instance, the Kommonium Z variant has a much harder time against Fairy-types if it doesn't have Poison Jab, can't do much to Steel-types like Skarmory and Mega Scizor without Flamethrower, and is vulnerable to status and phazing without Taunt, while the Dragon Dance set has trouble dealing with Toxapex without Earthquake. Clanging Scales ignores Substitute from Volcarona and Kyurem-B, forcing them out. Close Combat lets Kommo-o hit Steel-types like Heatran and Magearna. Drain Punch is a viable alternative that provides Kommo-o with some extra longevity and still lets it threaten Pokemon like Ash-Greninja, Excadrill, and Mega Tyranitar. Poison Jab hits Fairy-types such as Tapu Fini and Clefable for decent damage and OHKOes offensive Tapu Bulu after Stealth Rock damage. Flamethrower lets Kommo-o threaten Steel-types that are neutral to Fighting such as Mega Scizor, Mega Mawile, and Skarmory as well as threaten Magearna on the switch in. Kommo-o is an effective Stealth Rock setter, as its decent bulk and good typing let it force out Pokemon like Ash-Greninja and Heatran, giving it plenty of free opportunities. Finally, Taunt shuts down any attempts at status, recovery, or Haze from the likes of Toxapex, Chansey, and Slowbro. Clangorous Soulblaze boosts Kommo-o's damage and gives it a one-time omniboost, allowing it to blow through physically defensive Pokemon and sweep late-game. Bulletproof provides Kommo-o with an immunity to bullet moves such as Ferrothorn's Gyro Ball and Blacephalon's Shadow Ball. Soundproof grants an immunity to opposing Clangorous Soulblaze. A Hasty nature allows Kommo-o to outspeed Mega Lopunny after a boost, and it is chosen over Naive to let Kommo-o take on Ash-Greninja and Heatran more comfortably. If Kommo-o runs Flamethrower, a spread of 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe should be used instead. Kommo-o should save its Z-Move for late-game scenarios where Fairy-types have been removed, since they are immune to Clangorous Soulblaze and prevent the stat boosts. Kommo-o's Z-Move will also be wasted if the opponent sacrifices a weakened Pokemon to entry hazards, so be wary of this. Kommo-o must be wary of the Defense and Special Defense drops from Clanging Scales and Close Combat, as this can make it more vulnerable to revenge killing attempts from Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T and Kartana. Kommo-o must also watch out for status users like Thunder Wave Chansey and Ferrothorn and Toxic Toxapex and Slowbro, as they can prevent it from sweeping; if Kommo-o has Taunt, then it should always use it against potential status users before setting up. This Kommo-o set fits best on offense and hyper offense teams where it can clean up after its teammates break down walls. Protean and Battle Bond Greninja are great partners if Kommo-o runs Stealth Rock, as they can directly wear down checks like Tapu Fini and Magearna with attacks and indirectly with Spikes. Protean Greninja is especially notable, as it can lure in and KO Fairy-types like Tapu Fini and Clefable with Gunk Shot. Strong wallbreakers like Mega Mawile and Mega Charizard X can force through walls and pave a way for Kommo-o to clean up. Magearna can take on the likes of Mega Alakazam, Tapu Lele, and Tornadus-T, while Kommo-o can take on Fire-types like Mega Charizard Y and Heatran for Magearna. On hyper offense teams, Fire-type partners like Mega Charizard X and Volcarona appreciate Kommo-o taking on Ash-Greninja, which usually gives hyper offense teams lots of trouble. In return, they can handle Fairy-types like Tapu Bulu and Clefable and force damage against Tapu Fini so that Kommo-o can clean up. Serperior can grant additional Taunt support to deter entry hazards, provide paralysis support with Glare, and threaten Tapu Fini. Dragon Dance allows Kommo-o to boost its attacking stats, with its advantages over Clangorous Soulblaze being that it cannot be blocked by Fairy-types, can be used more than once, and potentially frees up Kommo-o's item slot for alternate Z-Crystals. Close Combat is a strong STAB option that lets Kommo-o hit neutral targets for the highest possible damage. Ice Punch is a good coverage option that allows Kommo-o to hit Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Garchomp on their 4x weakness to Ice, as well as taking out other chipped Ice-weak targets like Tornadus-T and Mega Latias. When holding Groundium Z, Kommo-o can use Dragon Dance as Magearna or Toxapex is lured in and OHKO its switch-in on the next turn with Tectonic Rage. Alternatively, it can wield Poisonium Z to KO Tapu Fini and Clefable with a +1 Acid Downpour and Tapu Bulu with a +1 Poison Jab. Additionally, it can use a combination of Poison Jab followed by Acid Downpour to KO Unaware Clefable. Another option is Kommonium Z, combining the boosts of both Dragon Dance and Clangorous Soulblaze to increase Kommo-o's stats to an incredibly threatening level, as well as hitting physically defensive Pokemon like Landorus-T and Rotom-W on their weaker Special Defense. A Speed-boosting nature lets Kommo-o outspeed Timid Heatran and Gyarados, as well as Mega Lopunny at +1. When using the Kommonium Z variant, a Hasty nature is preferred to maximize the damage output from Clanging Scales and Clangorous Soulblaze. 252 Attack EVs are used to give Kommo-o the best chance to KO Unaware Clefable with the combination of Poison Jab into Acid Downpour. Groundium Z variants do not require maximum Attack investment to KO their intended targets, so a spread of 40 HP / 216 Atk / 252 Spe can be used instead to allow Kommo-o to survive three Seismic Tosses. Bulletproof Kommo-o can check Blacephalon via its immunity to Shadow Ball, with its immunity to Ferrothorn's Gyro Ball also being beneficial. Soundproof is another option, as it gives Kommo-o an immunity to opposing Clangorous Soulblaze. Poisonium Z and Groundium Z Kommo-o can utilize their sets not being revealed as a lethal weapon, taking advantage of the opponent's fear of Clangorous Soulblaze to lure in and remove Fairy-types and Haze Toxapex, respectively. Kommonium Z Kommo-o, on the other hand, is best suited to late-game situations where opposing Fairy-types have either been removed or chipped into range of its other attacks. Kommo-o can use its typing to come in on Choice Specs Greninja to set up a Dragon Dance as Greninja switches out. It can also utilize its offensive presence to create setup opportunities, using both the fear of Close Combat that Fighting-weak Pokemon like Ferrothorn and Chansey may have and the fear of a potential Clangorous Soulblaze held by physically defensive Pokemon like Landorus-T. If there are no better targets, then Kommo-o can use its Z-Move against neutral targets such as Mega Medicham and Volcarona to net a KO it otherwise wouldn't. After Kommo-o's Z-Move is used up, its capability as a threat is reduced, so sacrificing it to get chip damage on defensive Pokemon such as Landorus-T and Rotom-W is a viable option. The Kommonium Z variant can take advantage of opponents attempting to sacrifice a Pokemon to Clangorous Soulblaze by using Dragon Dance first instead, with Kommo-o then outpacing the unboosted metagame, ready to use the anticipated Clangorous Soulblaze on the next turn and come away with an extra Attack and Speed boost, making it much harder to deal with. These Kommo-o variants generally fit on offense and hyper offense teams that appreciate Kommo-o's ability to remove defensive Pokemon using an unanticipated Z-Move. Good teammate choices for Kommo-o depend on which Z-Crystal it is holding. Groundium Z Kommo-o can take out Assault Vest Magearna, benefitting special attackers like Choice Specs Greninja, Serperior, and Mega Alakazam. Poisonium Z provides Kommo-o a way to remove Unaware Clefable, which is invaluable for hyper offense teams containing Pokemon like Hawlucha that have an incredibly hard time against it. The Kommonium Z variant of Kommo-o appreciates Ash-Greninja for its ability to draw in and weaken Assault Vest Magearna and Tapu Fini, as they fall into KO range of Kommo-o's boosted attacks from switching into repeated Choice Specs Hydro Pumps. Kommo-o leverages its unique typing to scare out Pokemon like Ash-Greninja, Zapdos, and Heatran, allowing easy opportunities to set up Stealth Rock. Drain Punch threatens targets like Kartana, Mega Tyranitar, and Excadrill, and it extends Kommo-o's longevity. Close Combat is another Fighting-type option if you want Kommo-o to more immediately threaten Heatran and Chansey with a guaranteed 2HKO. Protect allows an additional turn of regaining health from Leftovers; it also helps Kommo-o scout for Choice-locked Pokemon like Tapu Lele and coverage moves that can pick it off like Ice Beam from Protean Greninja and Psychic from Volcarona. Roar phazes boosted sweepers like Substitute variants of Volcarona and forces Kommo-o's checks to take extra chip damage from entry hazards that it and its teammates have set up. Rock Slide is useful for threatening Mega Charizard Y and Volcarona with an immediate OHKO, especially if the latter tries to use Kommo-o as setup fodder. Lastly, Toxic punishes checks that attempt to come in and force Kommo-o out, like Tapu Lele, Cresselia, and Slowbro, and is necessary for wearing down other Fighting-resistant targets like Landorus-T and Zapdos. The given Speed investment allows Kommo-o to outspeed Adamant Tyranitar, while the rest of its EVs are dumped into HP and Special Defense. Alternatively, it can drop its Speed investment to 16 EVs to outspeed Adamant Crawdaunt, allowing it to invest more EVs in bulk. Leftovers is necessary to extend Kommo-o's longevity and negate the chip damage that it takes from Stealth Rock. Bulletproof is Kommo-o's preferred ability, providing an immunity to bullet moves like Blacephalon's Shadow Ball and Ferrothorn's Gyro Ball. Soundproof is another option to avoid being phazed by Roar and make Kommo-o immune to Clangorous Soulblaze, preventing Kommonium Z variants of opposing Kommo-o from revenge killing it. Specially defensive Kommo-o fills a unique role as a Stealth Rock setter that serves as a defensive check to a variety of targets like Ash-Greninja; Mega Tyranitar; Heatran; Electric-types like Zapdos, Rotom-Wash, and non-Dazzling Gleam Tapu Koko; and Grass-types like Serperior, Kartana, and Tapu Bulu. Aim to switch Kommo-o into these Pokemon so that it can nab a free opportunity to set up Stealth Rock. Part of Kommo-o's gameplan is to stick around to handle these Pokemon, so try to avoid any scenarios that can negate the recovery it gains from Leftovers, like burn, poison, and item removal; these reduce its longevity, especially if entry hazards are on the field. This situation is worsened if Kommo-o isn't paired with a Wish or Heal Bell user. Early- or mid-game, Kommo-o can also use free opportunities to use Toxic to punish Pokemon that attempt to force it out like Landorus-T and Tapu Lele. Try to use Protect to scout for Choice-locked Pokemon and any coverage moves that can threaten Kommo-o with major damage, and act accordingly. Avoid trying to use Stealth Rock or Toxic if the opponent has Mega Diancie or Mega Sableye on their side of the field, as both Pokemon can bounce both moves back at Kommo-o. Be careful with Kommo-o's passivity if it's facing teams featuring defensive staples like Toxapex, Tapu Fini, and Gliscor; these Pokemon can easily use it as an opening, with Toxapex spreading status and setting up hazards, Tapu Fini clearing Stealth Rock with Defog, and Gliscor setting up its own Stealth Rock, spreading status, or removing Kommo-o's Stealth Rock. This Kommo-o variant excels on bulky offense and balance teams, which appreciate its role compression of a Stealth Rock setter and a dedicated check to Heatran, Volcarona, and Ash-Greninja. Ferrothorn and Greninja have incredible synergy with Kommo-o because Kommo-o forms an entry hazard-stacking core with each of them, allowing them to pressure shared checks like Magearna and Mega Mawile. Ferrothorn also has the added benefit of providing Knock Off support, and its typing pairs well with Kommo-o, letting it handle Fairy- and Psychic-types like Tapu Fini, Tapu Lele, and Mega Alakazam; in return, Kommo-o deals with Fire-types that scare Ferrothorn out like Mega Charizard Y, Heatran, and Volcarona. Toxapex absorbs Toxic Spikes and sets up a layer of its own, putting pressure on targets like Slowbro and Tapu Lele. Roar variants of Kommo-o especially enjoy the hazard support these Pokemon provide, as this forces opposing teams to shuffle through and allows Kommo-o to rack up hazard damage over time. Other Steel-types like Jirachi, Mega Scizor, and Magearna pair well with Kommo-o, covering Fairy- and Psychic-types like Clefable, Tapu Lele, and Mega Alakazam, while Kommo-o deals with Fire-types like Mega Charizard Y, Heatran, and non-Psychic Volcarona. Jirachi passes Wish to help extend Kommo-o's longevity without having it rely too heavily on Leftovers and Drain Punch; Mega Scizor can provide Knock Off to remove important items like Black Sludge from Toxapex; and Magearna grants cleric support with Heal Bell, curing any status ailments that Kommo-o may have. Kommo-o also enjoys partnering with Mega Latias, as Mega Latias threatens Swords Dance Gliscor with Ice Beam and can serve as a late-game wincon with Calm Mind, benefitting from the passive damage that Kommo-o forces on the opposition. In return, Kommo-o puts a stop to Ash-Greninja and Mega Tyranitar, the latter of which threatens Mega Latias with Pursuit. Slowbro is another option for a bulky Psychic-type, since it solidly answers Mega Charizard X, a difficult Pokemon for balance archetypes to face. Gliscor is also a noteworthy teammate thanks to Poison Heal letting it soak up burns and Toxic, which ruin Kommo-o's longevity. Swords Dance Gliscor is a dangerous potential wincon on defensive archetypes, remedies Kommo-o's passivity, and heavily pressures stall archetypes. Weavile and Mega Tyranitar are also superb teammates for Kommo-o, as they eliminate bulky Psychic-types like Cresselia, Mega Latias, and Slowbro with Pursuit, taking some pressure off of Kommo-o. In return, Kommo-o covers solid defensive gaps for both of them by switching into Ash-Greninja. Substitute allows Kommo-o to punish switches or safely set up against Pokemon that don't pose a significant threat, as well as block status. Belly Drum enables Kommo-o to safely activate its Salac Berry behind a Substitute, allowing it to sweep more effectively. Drain Punch provides Kommo-o with much-needed recovery after using Substitute and Belly Drum, making it much harder to revenge kill. Thunder Punch allows Kommo-o to OHKO Pokemon like Tapu Fini, Toxapex, and Tornadus-T while also hitting other Fighting-resistant Pokemon, such as Reuniclus and Clefable. Frustration allows Kommo-o to effectively hit threats like Gliscor, Landorus-T, Mega Latios, Mega Latias, and various Fairy-types. 52 HP EVs allow Kommo-o to always activate Salac Berry after Substitute and Belly Drum. The rest of the EVs are put in Attack to hit as hard as possible. Bulletproof grants Kommo-o an immunity to bullet moves like Gyro Ball, Shadow Ball, and Sludge Bomb, allowing it to set up on Ferrothorn, Blacephalon, and Mega Venusaur, respectively. Kommo-o should be used mid- or late-game as a sweeper when its checks are weakened or KOed. Kommo-o's best setup opportunities are on passive Pokemon whose attacks it resists, like Rotom-W and Ferrothorn, or attackers it can chase out like Ash-Greninja and Heatran. Make sure not to switch Kommo-o in directly, even against resisted attacks, as the damage may prevent Kommo-o from setting up, making it useless offensively. Kommo-o is still slower than Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T, Kartana, and Tapu Lele even after a Salac Berry boost, and can be revenge killed if its Substitute is broken, so these Pokemon must be removed so that it can sweep. When facing status spreaders like Rotom-W, Gliscor, and Chansey, it's important to use Substitute before using Belly Drum. This set is best used on hyper offense teams due to its committal, high-risk, high-reward nature. Dedicated leads like Landorus-T, Mega Diancie, and Mew can set up entry hazards and prevent the opponent from getting their own hazards. Serperior is an excellent partner, offering Glare support, helping to break through Unaware walls with Taunt, and providing hazard removal. Magearna helps handle Psychic- and Fairy-types one-on-one, relieves Kommo-o of the pressure of checking threats like Ash-Greninja, and generally adds much-needed consistency to hyper offense builds. Mega Charizard X draws in Landorus-T and can thus force huge damage on it with Flare Blitz. Other physical attackers like Dragonite, Kartana, Mega Pinsir, and Gyarados are considered good partners in hyper offense teams, as they can force through shared checks for the other to clean up later in the game. This set can also be paired with dual screens users like Tapu Koko. Choice Scarf Tapu Lele helps Kommo-o from being prone to priority moves like Extreme Speed and Bullet Punch. Choice Scarf Victini is another strong option, offering Final Gambit support to help create setup opportunities for Kommo-o. Cresselia can use its Eject Button to disrupt Volt Switch from Rotom-W to stop it from switching out and bring Kommo-o in safely, and it grants Lunar Dance support to bring Kommo-o back in top condition for another chance to clean up. Dragon Dance Kommo-o can utilize other Z-Crystals like Electrium Z with Thunder Punch to smash Toxapex and Tapu Fini and Dragonium Z with Outrage to allow the highest possible chance to OHKO Slowbro at +1 after Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes. However, the use of these Z-Moves is very specific and forces Kommo-o to give up other Z-Crystals like Groundium Z, Poisonium Z, and Kommonium Z, and being locked into Outrage leaves it vulnerable to being revenge killed by Fairy-types. Flamethrower is another option over Protect on defensive sets to prevent Mega Mawile from coming in for free and improve Kommo-o's matchup against Kartana and Mega Scizor. Specially defensive Kommo-o can opt for Overcoat as its ability if it's used on sand teams, as this lets it aid Mega Tyranitar and its teammates in stacking passive damage without being bothered by sand; plus, Kommo-o helps serve as a backup answer to Ash-Greninja in case Toxapex is out of commission. Swords Dance turns Kommo-o into a dangerous wallbreaker and poses a threat against bulkier structures, but Kommo-o is slower than other Swords Dance users like Landorus-T, Mega Charizard X, and Kartana, and it prefers the omniboost from Clangorous Soulblaze or the Attack and Speed boost from Dragon Dance to more easily clean up offensive structures. A physically defensive spread alongside an Impish nature is an option on bulky Kommo-o if its team has trouble against physical attackers like Landorus-T and Mega Swampert.
Kommo O (SS competitive strategy): Kommo-o is a pretty solid Stealth Rock setter, capable of pressuring the most common forms of entry hazard removal in Mandibuzz, Excadrill, and Corviknight. Beyond that, it has a very solid matchup against sun teams in general, notably checking Venusaur. Kommo-o fits best on balance teams that need to improve their matchup against sun teams and need a solid Stealth Rock setter. Kommo-o synergizes very well with Wish Clefable, as it is otherwise quickly worn down. It is also important to have counterplay to Clefable, as Kommo-o often baits it into play, so Pokemon like Excadrill and Corviknight are solid teammates.
Kommo O (SV competitive strategy): Kommo-o is a decent late-game sweeper thanks to its access to Clangorous Soul, capable of cleaning weakened teams thanks to its combination of good bulk and serviceable typing to ease setup. Boomburst gives it a strong and no-drawback move to hit neutral foes, ranging from walls like Zapdos, Clefable, and Gliscor all the way to offensive ones like Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Ogerpon-W. Flamethrower provides Kommo-o with a way to threaten Gholdengo and other Steel-types like Corviknight and Iron Crown, preventing them from stopping its sweep. Clanging Scales can be used as a powerful STAB option that threatens Kommo-o's fellow Dragon-types like Kyurem, Raging Bolt, and Dragonite more easily while also being its most damaging move before Terastallizing, particularly against Ghost-types like Pecharunt, Dragapult, and Ceruledge. Drain Punch's healing can mitigate the health cost from Clangerous Soul while netting crucial KOs against Darkrai, Weavile, and Hisuian Samurott and denting special walls like Ting-Lu and Blissey, which wall it otherwise. Soundproof prevents Kommo-o from being forced to switch out and get its sweep stopped by Roar users such as Moltres and Zamazenta while also making it immune to Parting Shot from Pecharunt and Psychic Noise from Galarian Slowking and Iron Crown. Tera Normal is the go-to choice for boosting Boomburst's damage output while granting it a decent neutral typing against potential revenge killers like Enamorus and Weavile. A Naive nature alongside an EV spread of 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe should only be used on Drain Punch variants. Kommo-o fits best on offense teams that want to make use of its good bulk and resistances to allow it to set up and sweep or weaken the opposing team considerably for other sweepers, as well as being able to switch into certain threats in a pinch. Kingambit makes for a great offensive partner, as Kommo-o can soften or outright beat foes such as Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Landorus-T to make way for a Kingambit sweep later. Furthermore, Kingambit can take care of Kommo-o's enemies such as Galarian Slowking, Garganacl, and Pecharunt or Blissey depending on Kommo-o's choice of STAB move. Scizor is also a great offensive partner, being able to pivot out and bring Kommo-o into the field safely while threatening Fairy-types and Ting-Lu. Ogerpon-W is a fantastic partner, as it can easily punch holes in bulkier teams and weaken them to enable a sweep from Kommo-o. Defensive teammates such as Great Tusk, Landorus-T, and Primarina appreciate Kommo-o's ability to switch into Grass- and Water-type threats such as Hisuian Samurott and Rillaboom. In return, Great Tusk provides entry hazard control with Rapid Spin to keep Kommo-o healthy and threatens special walls such as Blissey, Galarian Slowking, Ting-Lu, and Garganacl. Landorus-T grants Kommo-o a way to get onto the field safely through U-turn, checks and weakens threats such as Zamazenta and Dragonite, and is capable of setting Stealth Rock, which guarantees that a boosted Kommo-o KOes Gliscor with Tera Normal Boomburst and Pecharunt with Clanging Scales. Hazard setters and removers in general are very appreciated, due to Kommo-o's recoil damage when boosting along with its nature as an all-or-nothing sweeper. Iron Treads is a great partner, as it can set up Stealth Rock, use Rapid Spin to get rid of hazards for Kommo-o, and switch into Fairy-types such as Hatterene, Clefable, and special variants of Iron Valiant. Ting-Lu is also a phenomenal teammate, as Kommo-o covers Pokemon that threaten it such as Hisuian Samurott, Ogerpon-W, and Rillaboom, while Ting-Lu can set up Stealth Rock or Spikes and phaze problematic Pokemon such as Calm Mind Raging Bolt. Sticky Web users such as Araquanid and Ribombee can prove to be very useful teammates for Kommo-o as well, crippling threats like Booster Energy Iron Valiant, Choice Scarf Darkrai, and Meowscarada. Alomomola is a good fit for less offensive teams, being able to both keep Kommo-o healthy with Wish and bring it to the field safely with Flip Turn, while Kommo-o handles Ogerpon-W. Alolan Ninetales is a terrific partner as well, being able to set up Aurora Veil, enhancing Kommo-o's bulk further and allowing it to set up more safely. Alolan Ninetales also helps Kommo-o defensively by switching in on Ice-type threats like Weavile and Kyurem.
Golurk (XY competitive strategy): Golurk has a unique typing with immunities to Normal, Fighting, and Electric, which allows it to block Rapid Spin and Volt Switch while being one of the few physical attackers in the tier unfazed by Fighting-type attacks. It boasts an extremely high Attack stat with a potent STAB combination as well as solid coverage, making it very tricky to wall. Golurk even has decent bulk for an offensive Pokemon, and it has usable abilities in the form of Iron Fist and No Guard; the former boosts the power of Golurk's various punching moves, while the latter ensures none of Golurk's (or its foe's) attacks miss. Unfortunately, Golurk often fails to fire off as many attacks as it would like, given that is very slow for an offensive Pokemon and carries numerous weaknesses to common attacking types such as Water, Grass, Ice, and Dark, the latter entailing a Pursuit weakness. This hinders its effectiveness as a spinblocker. Stealth Rock is an appealing option on Golurk. Golurk not only has an advantageous matchup against most Stealth Rock leads, but Golurk can also spinblock to keep its entry hazards up. Earthquake deals hefty damage to foes lacking a resistance, and especially hurting most grounded Stealth Rock leads. Ice Punch can also be used to hit the likes of Vileplume, Torterra, and Rotom-S. Dynamic Punch is primarily a disruption tool, being able to buy Golurk free turns and to trip foes up, particularly slower Pokemon; the likes of Crustle and Prinplup will face an uphill battle against confusion to fulfill their roles before Golurk knocks them out. The fact that Dynamic Punch can be spammed due to No Guard can cause foes to hesitate before making switches. Shadow Punch allows Golurk to hit Archeops and Mesprit, which are also commonly Stealth Rock users, and deters Xatu from switching in to Magic Bounce its Stealth Rock. Alternatively, Thunder Punch can be used to swiftly strike down Defog users, such as Mantine and Pelipper, before they can clear away Golurk's Stealth Rock. Note that Shadow Punch should only be used alongside Iron Fist due to its mediocre power without the boost from Iron Fist. As an offensive Stealth Rock setter, Golurk doesn't especially need bulk to do its job; it just opts for maximum power to dent the opponent as much as possible with its powerful attacks after using Stealth Rock. Maximum Speed investment is used to Speed tie with other base 55s, as well as to outspeed Jolly Crustle. A Jolly nature is an option for Golurk to outrun a few more threats, such as neutral-natured Aurorus and Pawniard. Dynamic Punch necessitates the use of No Guard, while Iron Fist pairs well with Thunder Punch while also boosting Shadow Punch. The item is the most customizable aspect about this Golurk variant. Colbur Berry weakens Knock Offs from Dark-types and Fighting-types, allowing Golurk to check the latter and to effectively spinblock against Sandslash. Passho Berry allows Golurk to survive Kabutops's Waterfall and OHKO with Earthquake, effectively denying the Rapid Spin, as well as to survive 2 Scalds from Defoggers such as Pelipper, Mantine, and Prinplup; this gives Golurk the chance to inflict more damage on them before it goes down. Focus Sash is a reasonable item choice as it allows Golurk to consistently set up Stealth Rock and proceed to hammer the foe if its Focus Sash remains intact. Lum Berry cures sleep and burn, while Leftovers increases Golurk's longevity should it be needed to set up Stealth Rock later in the match, or to simply stick around to throw out some attacks. Life Orb can be used for more power, giving Golurk better odds of OHKOing or 2HKOing Pokemon such as bulky Xatu, Garbodor, and defensive Carracosta. This set is best used as a lead Stealth Rock setter. Golurk's three immunities, multiple resistances, and ability to force out certain threats with the threat of powerful attacks can give it the advantage in the lead matchup. No Guard Dynamic Punch is a fairly safe attack to throw out to mess with the opponent, putting them in a dilemma as to whether or not they should risk a switch. Be warned that No Guard exposes Golurk to perfectly accurate Sleep Powders, Hydro Pumps, and Will-O-Wisps. If Thunder Punch is used instead, Golurk does not have to worry unduly about Defoggers. Golurk can also be used to spinblock; even if it gets KOed right afterward due to its unfortunate weaknesses, faster teammates can be sent in to dispatch the spinners to prevent the Rapid Spin. If Golurk is not used as a lead, it should try to find an opportunity to set up Stealth Rock safely. It usually wants Focus Sash to do so consistently against offensive teams unless they have a weak link, such as a slower wall or weaker attacker, that can be exploited. Against defensive teams, there are more opportunities for Golurk to set up Stealth Rock; it might even get the chance to launch some powerful attacks. This Golurk best fits on offensive teams, as they appreciate a Stealth Rock user that doesn't give the foe many setup opportunities. While Golurk can spinblock, its weakness against most of the spinners means a backup plan should always be in place; faster revenge killers such as Archeops, Tauros, Shiftry, and Lilligant can immediately respond to the spinners and scare them off, denying them the chance to use Rapid Spin. Golurk can even bait the spinner's attacks to allow its resistant teammates to enter battle and force them out, saving Golurk for further opportunities to spinblock. Offensive Pokemon in general appreciate Stealth Rock to secure more KOs. Flying-types, such as Swellow, Rotom-S, Archeops, and Scyther, make for decent teammates due to their great offensive synergy; Golurk handles Rock-, Steel-, and Electric-types for them, while they demolish Grass-types and can give frail offensive Pokemon a hard time. Most of them can even make use of U-turn or Volt Switch to maintain momentum and take advantage of Golurk's Stealth Rock. Most checks and counters to Grass- and Fighting-types such as Lilligant and Hariyama are vulnerable to Stealth Rock as well as Golurk's STAB types; the Grass-types can also protect Golurk from Water and Grass attacks while the Fighting-types handle Dark-types for Golurk. Earthquake is Golurk's main damaging move, dishing out heavy damage against any non-Ground-resistant or -immune foes, and can even still hurt frailer Ground-resistant Pokemon, such as Lilligant. Shadow Punch receives STAB and is boosted by Iron Fist. It provides great neutral coverage alongside Earthquake, making it Golurk's next best attacking option. It nails most Levitate Pokemon such as Mesprit and Rotom, hammers bulky Psychic-types such as Musharna for major damage, and is Golurk's most powerful attack against Gourgeist, one of the physically bulkiest Pokemon in the tier. Ice Punch nails Grass-types for heavy damage on the switch, which makes foes such as Torterra, Leafeon, and Tangela hesitant to switch in and deters the likes of Torterra and Cacturne from setting up. It also provides coverage on Flying-types that aren't susceptible to Shadow Punch, such as Swellow and Rotom-S. Zen Headbutt 2HKOes Weezing on the switch, while Thunder Punch can be used to swiftly OHKO Pelipper; it's worth noting that Shadow Punch already 2HKOes Pelipper after Stealth Rock damage. Maximum Attack investment and an Adamant nature, coupled with Choice Band, gives Golurk its greatest wallbreaking potential. Life Orb is a viable alternative over Choice Band to allow Golurk to switch moves. Maximum Speed investment allows Golurk to Speed tie opposing neutral-natured Golurk and Exeggutor, which are mutual threats, as well as to outrun slower Pokemon such as Mawile and various uninvested Pokemon such as Mantine and Malamar. Less Speed can be run in exchange for more bulk; 148 Speed EVs allow Golurk to outspeed uninvested Malamar and fully invested Adamant Rhydon, with the remaining EVs dumped into HP. Golurk is best brought in on a free switch, either via double switching or the likes of U-turn, or brought in on a non-threatening foe such as Regirock or Garbodor. Alternatively, it can be used to revenge kill slower Pokemon, such as Lanturn and Musharna. Earthquake is the strongest move in Golurk's arsenal, so keep an eye out for the opponent's likely switch-ins to Ground-type moves. Because Shadow Punch has better neutral coverage, it is often the safer move for Golurk to throw out early-game. Identify the opponent's Golurk switch-ins and try to nail them on the switch with the appropriate coverage move. Golurk should consider carefully the move it locks itself into, as various setup sweepers such as Lilligant, Scyther, Carracosta, and Klinklang will take advantage of it; Shadow Punch is the move that grants opposing setup sweepers the fewest opportunities to set up, but does allow entry to hard-hitting Normal-types and Dark-types, such as Tauros, Kangaskhan, Zangoose, Swellow, Liepard, and Cacturne. Life Orb allows Golurk to switch moves to prevent this, but Golurk is regardless so prone to being forced out that Choice Band better suits for its hit-and-run nature, as it lets Golurk dish out more damage without reducing its longevity. Golurk specializes in dismantling bulky cores, and can find opportunities to do so by preying on the opponent's vulnerable Pokemon with its STAB types. Poison-, Rock-, Steel-, Psychic-, and grounded Electric-types, which include the likes of Garbodor, Regirock, Carracosta, Mawile, Musharna, Xatu, and Lanturn, are fair game for Golurk to start dishing out powerful hits. Golurk is slow, and thus will generally fare poorly against faster offensive teams outside of perhaps scoring a KO or two before being promptly revenge killed. Golurk's poor Speed entails a necessity to make correct predictions if it wants to contribute against offensive teams, as being Choice-locked makes Golurk quite prediction reliant. If that is an issue, Life Orb does ease prediction for Golurk. Pokemon that fare well against offensive teams, such as Tauros, Shiftry, Lilligant, Kangaskhan, and Klinklang, can make up for Golurk's lackluster matchup against such teams. Golurk's unique resistances and its ability to easily dispatch many bulky Pokemon grant it respectable synergy with a wide variety of offensive Pokemon. Some of Golurk's best teammates include Flying-type U-turn users and Fighting-types. Flying-types, such as Swellow and Scyther, can lure in bulky Electric-, Rock-, and Steel-types and use them as an opportunity for Golurk to enter unscathed and start wreaking havoc. Fighting-types can check opposing Dark-types, possess potent wallbreaking prowess alongside Golurk, and appreciate Golurk luring in and dispatching problematic Pokemon that resist Fighting-type attacks with Zen Headbutt or Thunder Punch. Hariyama in particular synergizes well with Golurk as it possesses a resistance to Ice. Slowing down foes is another way to grant Golurk the advantage against faster teams. Bulky Thunder Wave users such as Musharna, Lanturn, and Probopass, and even Stun Spore Vileplume, can use their bulk and longevity to spread paralysis throughout the opponent's team, increasing the number of Golurk victims. Rock Polish can be used to potentially sweep offensive teams, but in most cases Golurk is better off using its turns on the field to set up Stealth Rock or simply attacking. The Stealth Rock set can use Magic Coat to reflect Taunt and opposing entry hazards, though Dynamic Punch is already effective at disrupting the foe's entry hazards while few foes would risk Taunting against Golurk due to its massive power. Drain Punch is a possible coverage option that gets boosted by Iron Fist, trading useful coverage for slightly better longevity. The use of Substitute and Focus Punch is an option for Golurk, but Golurk doesn't need the excessively powerful Fighting coverage and it can usually take better advantage of the free turn with Rock Polish instead of Substitute. Golurk could opt for a bulkier spread with max HP and slight defensive investment to better survive blows from Pokemon such as Tauros, though it doesn't really improve its matchup against many Pokemon in particular. Choice Scarf can patch up Golurk's Speed without wasting a turn setting up Rock Polish, but Golurk is still pretty slow in that it cannot outrun any boosted threats. Take into account its unboosted power, inability to switch moves, and the fact that its main STAB moves aren't the most spammable, Golurk's cleaning power as a Scarf user is limited. Stone Edge's utility is pretty much confined to taking out Pinsir, as most targets are dealt with sufficiently, perhaps even hit harder, by Golurk's other attacks.
Golurk (SM competitive strategy): Golurk carves a niche in the PU tier due to its solid offensive typing, stellar Attack stat, great coverage options bolstered by Iron Fist, and immunity to moves like Rapid Spin and Volt Switch. Golurk's typing also allows it to block Fighting- and Electric-type attacks from common threats such as Primeape and Alolan Raichu. These attributes allow Golurk to pressure common entry hazard setters and removers such as Aggron, Regirock, Skuntank, and Hitmonchan, making it an effective user of Stealth Rock. Despite its offensive prowess, Golurk struggles to break through bulky walls such as Gurdurr and Tangela. Golurk's mediocre Speed stat also leaves it outsped by common threats such as Victreebel and Rotom-F. Additionally, being weak to common types such as Ice, Grass, and Water makes revenge killing and forcing out Golurk much easier. Ice Punch allows Golurk to hit Grass- and Flying-type Pokemon such as Torterra, Oricorio-E, and Scyther. Drain Punch is an alternative over Shadow Punch that is boosted by Iron Fist and provides a method of recovery, especially against bulky targets like Audino. An Adamant nature gives Golurk extra power, while a Jolly nature allows it to outspeed threats such as Modest Aurorus and Jolly Aggron. Colbur Berry is used to endure Dark-type attacks, allowing Golurk to pressure Defog users like Skuntank. Lastly, Iron Fist is the preferred ability over No Guard because it makes Ice Punch, Drain Punch, and Shadow Punch a bit stronger. Generally, unless you predict the opponent to switch into Pokemon that are immune or resistant to Ground, Golurk should spam its STAB Earthquake or set up Stealth Rock. An effective way for Golurk to set up Stealth Rock is on passive Pokemon such as Clefairy and Regirock. Additionally, be sure to take advantage of Golurk's capabilities of spinblocking by bringing it in on predicted Rapid Spins from Pokemon such as Hitmonchan. Golurk can additionally use its resistances to Rock- and Poison-type moves to switch into Pokemon like unboosted Lycanroc and Choice-locked Skuntank; however, Golurk's only passable bulk and limited recovery options means that it should switch into such Pokemon sparingly. Golurk fits on offensive teams because it's a Stealth Rock user that can still apply immediate offensive pressure itself. Fighting-type Pokemon such as Primeape and Hitmonchan also make good partners because they deal with Dark-types such as Absol and Alolan Persian. Primeape provides momentum with U-turn, while Assault Vest Hitmonchan checks special attackers such as Aurorus; in return, Golurk can check Psychic-type Pokemon like Claydol and Musharna for the latter. Lanturn pairs well with Golurk because it can check special attackers such as Rotom-F, Floatzel and Swanna while being able to provide Heal Bell and Volt Switch support. Lastly, wallbreakers such as Simisear and Alolan Raichu make for good teammates because they pressure bulky walls like Tangela and Gurdurr while also appreciating the Stealth Rock support Golurk provides. A Choice Band can be used to make Golurk a wallbreaker; however, Golurk prefers not to be Choice-locked because being locked into Earthquake gives free setup opportunities to Pokemon like Oricorio-E. Passho Berry and Yache Berry are alternatives to Colbur Berry that can be used in conjunction with Stone Edge to safely exchange with Pokemon like Swanna and Articuno in order to preserve Stealth Rock. Lum Berry is another option that gives Golurk a temporary shield from Toxic and Will-O-Wisp. However, Golurk typically prefers Colbur Berry to take on Dark-types like Absol and Skuntank. A Rock Polish set can patch up Golurk's mediocre Speed in order to make it more of a threatening sweeper, but finding setup opportunities is difficult and it faces heavy competition from Torterra. Lastly, Dynamic Punch can be used with No Guard because it's a spammable coverage attack that disrupts foes, but Golurk's other coverage moves are made considerably weaker without Iron Fist.
Golurk (SS competitive strategy): Golurk boasts a top-tier offensive STAB combination along with a useful pool of utility moves, making it very difficult to identify the set and safely play around. Additionally, it's one of the few viable Ground-types in the tier, letting it check Aerodactyl and Tyrantrum in a pinch as well as block Rotom-C's Volt Switch. Despite Golurk's colorful movepool and great Attack stat, its poor Speed and middling bulk make it quite easy to find midgrounds for once its set is successfully identified. Golurk also faces competition from the much superior Silvally-Ground and Mudsdale for a teamslot because they have significantly fewer flaws and are easier to build around; with Golurk, you lose a ton of defensive utility and cannot easily run item displacement such as Knock Off. As a wallbreaker, Golurk is slower than the likes of Exploud and Sylveon while only matching their damage output. Golurk's reliance on Poltergeist and Earthquake, two moves with common immunities in the tier, can make it quite prediction reliant to accomplish the same damage that the aforementioned wallbreakers and others accomplish simply by using their STAB moves. Choice Band Golurk hits like a train and 2HKOes almost everything assuming it locks into the right move, making it incredibly scary. Close Combat pairs perfectly with Poltergeist, nailing defensive Dark-types like Guzzlord and Scrafty as well as Snorlax, which can be 2HKOed even after a Curse boost. The final coverage move is often irrelevant due to the high-Base Power and flawless coverage Golurk's three main moves provide, although Stone Edge can OHKO Talonflame even if Golurk is burned and nails other Flying-types like Mantine and Braviary a little harder than Poltergeist or Close Combat would. Alternatively, Heat Crash hits itemless Grass-types such as Vileplume, Rotom-C, and Dhelmise. Due to Golurk's poor Speed and bulk, it greatly appreciates the momentum provided by great pivots such as Rotom-C and Choice Scarf Passimian, both of which can also easily clean up teams after Golurk punches holes in them. Despite being a Ground-type, it fails to check many Poison-types such as Toxicroak and Drapion, making alternative defensive pivots like Talonflame and Arcanine very useful. Physical attackers like Tauros and Toxicroak appreciate Golurk weakening physical walls like Mudsdale and Weezing. Tauros also provides a Ghost immunity, and Toxicroak's Dry Skin allows it to pivot into Water-type attacks. Golurk makes use of its Klutz ability and Trick to bestow a nasty surprise upon unsuspecting physical walls such as Weezing, Mudsdale, and Vileplume, which can otherwise serve as a decent midground to its attacks. Golurk's offensive presence is enough to force switches against common Steel-types to set up Stealth Rock while deterring Xatu from attempting to deflect it for fear of a Poltergeist OHKO. Golurk's Trick + Sticky Barb combination helps it wallbreak and supports other physical attackers like Tauros, Passimian, and Drapion that share checks with it. Although Golurk is quite strong without a Choice Band, it's certainly noticeably weaker and appreciates stronger teammates like Exploud and Alolan Exeggutor to compensate. Similarly, Golurk's poor Speed makes it easy to take advantage of with faster attackers like Inteleon and Starmie, so good defensive teammates like Mantine and Guzzlord are a must. Golurk's middling bulk can be supplemented by an Assault Vest, allowing it to effectively beat Pokemon like Rotom-C and Starmie one-on-one that it would otherwise lose to. The loss of wallbreaking power from not using a Choice Band is often not worth sacrificing Golurk's viability and most of its HP just to beat some special attackers. Just like its Sticky Barb and Assault Vest sets, Golurk can use a Choice Scarf to catch its foes off guard, although this has similar drawbacks to the Assault Vest set. Rock Polish Golurk makes for a solid late-game sweeper, although even after a Rock Polish it can find itself too weak and slower than some Choice Scarf users. Rindo Berry can be used with Rock Polish to always win the matchup against Choice Scarf Rotom-C.
Golurk (SV competitive strategy): Golurk is a potent wallbreaker with limited switch-ins thanks to its incredible STAB combination, which is resisted by only a few Pokemon in the tier. Golurk excels at dismantling common defensive cores thanks to its high Attack and great typing, which let it switch into and force out defensive staples like Galarian Slowbro and Bellibolt. Dynamic Punch lets Golurk 2HKO Wo-Chien while also hitting other Dark- and Normal-types like Scrafty and Dudunsparce and threatening confusion against everything else. Close Combat can be used as an alternative due to its higher Base Power, which lets it guarantee a 2HKO on Wo-Chien after Leech Seed recovery; however, Golurk misses out on the confusion, and the Defense and Special Defense drops make it more susceptible to being revenge killed. Ice Punch lets Golurk OHKO Bombirdier and Altaria while also serving as a good middle ground into foes like Brute Bonnet. Stone Edge can be used as an alternative that's stronger versus neutral targets and has a higher chance to land a critical hit. Tera Dark flips Golurk's Ghost and Dark weaknesses while also removing its Water and Ice weaknesses, allowing it to avoid revenge kill attempts from Pokemon like Skuntank, Espeon, and opposing Golurk. Tera Ghost can be used instead to further boost Golurk's power, letting it 2HKO Pokemon like Mudsdale and guaranteeing OHKOs against Pokemon like Rotom-H with Poltergeist while still removing its susceptibility to Water- and Ice-type moves to avoid revenge killing attempts from Pokemon like Bruxish and Ice Punch Pawmot. Golurk works best alongside Pokemon that benefit from its wallbreaking abilities such as Choice Scarf Bruxish and Curse Arcanine, which struggle with Bellibolt and Rhydon, respectively. While Golurk has the coverage to hit the likes of Bombirdier, Wo-Chien, and Brute Bonnet, their presence on the opposing team hurts its ability to freely use its STAB moves and forces it to make more predictions, so teammates that can handle these Pokemon like Bellibolt, which checks Bombirdier, and Paldean Tauros-F, which helps against Wo-Chien and Brute Bonnet, make excellent partners. Furthermore, Paldean Tauros-F offensively and defensively checks the Dark-types that threaten Golurk, and other Fighting-types like Pawmot and Hisuian Decidueye are similarly good partners for this purpose. Golurk is also forced out by Water- and Grass-types, so teammates that can switch into these Pokemon, like Milotic for Tatsugiri as well as Skuntank for Choice Scarf Hoopa, are incredible partners for Golurk. Golurk can leverage its usable bulk, defensive and offensive typing, and more importantly, its great power to become one of few good offensive Stealth Rock users. This set is also good at bluffing Choice Band, which can be taken advantage of when setting up Stealth Rock. Ice Punch is optimal coverage for Golurk on this set, letting it hit Pokemon like Bombirdier and Altaria, which would otherwise be great checks to Golurk. Dynamic Punch is also an option for its higher Base Power, super effective damage against Fighting-weak Pokemon like Wo-Chien and Dudunsparce, and disruptive confusion spreading. Colbur Berry's main draw is reversing Golurk's matchup against Dark-types like Skuntank and Zoroark, always tanking a Knock Off from them while OHKOing back with Earthquake. The Speed EVs lets Golurk outspeed -1 Arcanine and defensive Alolan Sandslash, while the bulk investment lets it take two hits from defensive Florges. Tera Dark sheds Golurk's many weaknesses and even turns some of them, like Dark and Ghost, into resistances; namely, it lets it check Ghost-types like Hoopa and Houndstone as well as Dark-types like Scrafty and Zoroark after its Colbur Berry has been used up. As an offensive Stealth Rock user, Golurk should be used on more offensive teams that do not want to lose momentum from their entry hazard user and not hyper offense teams that rely on leads like Lycanroc and Froslass to get their entry hazards up. Offensive pivots that can bring Golurk in, like Ambipom and Hisuian Electrode are great for this, bringing Golurk in on their switch-ins like Bellibolt, Galarian Slowbro, and Alolan Sandslash; in return, Golurk provides a way to break past them as well as entry hazards to help wear these switch-ins down. Golurk also appreciates defensive partners that help it deal with Dark-types, such as Paldean Tauros-F and Choice Scarf Florges, which are great at forcing out Wo-Chien and Scrafty. Bulky Water- and Grass-types like Cramorant and Wo-Chien to switch into opposing Water- and Grass-types that force Golurk out are also appreciated; Cramorant can also spread paralysis to help Golurk outspeed its offensive checks. Fire types like Rotom-H and Hisuian Typhlosion are good partners, as they can easily pressure Grass-types that threaten Golurk, like Wo-Chien and Venusaur. Being a slow bulky Pokemon with no recovery, Golurk naturally struggles against revenge killers like Hoopa and Tastugiri, so speed control that can offensively check these Pokemon like Choice Scarf Zoroark and Florges are greatly appreciated.
Krookodile (XY competitive strategy): Krookodile is a great Pokemon in the UU metagame. It has great Attack and decent Speed along with decent bulk. It also has a decent movepool, both offensively and defensively, and it has a very good offensive typing that hits a variety of foes hard. Krookodile has access to useful abilities in Intimidate and Moxie that allow it to play different roles in the metagame successfully, such as that of a Choice Band attacker. However, Krookodile has quite a lot of weaknesses to several common types, such as Fighting and Water, and even though its Speed is decent, it is outsped by a lot of threats in the metagame, meaning that they can easily KO it. Earthquake is a solid STAB attack that has excellent coverage and great Base Power, meaning it hits almost everything that doesn't resist it hard. Knock Off is another a good STAB attack that also has the utility of removing the foe's item. Stone Edge is a powerful move that not only hits the Flying-types that are immune to Earthquake but also has great coverage against other types, such as Bug. Pursuit traps Pokemon such as Chandelure and Hoopa and deals more damage to them if they try to switch out. Superpower can be used over Stone Edge or Pursuit for good coverage alongside Earthquake that hurts Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Blissey. Intimidate is used to boost Krookodile's staying power as it lowers the foe's Attack stat, and thus its damage output. Choice Band is used because it gives a huge boost to Krookodile's Attack. The investment in Attack and Speed ensures that Krookodile hits very hard and allows it to to outspeed Pokemon such as Lucario. The 4 Defense EVs are invested to give a small boost to Krookodile's Defense, while also letting it hit an odd HP number, which lessens Stealth Rock damage. A Jolly nature should be used alongside Choice Band to boost Krookodile's Speed because it already has enough power, and otherwise it misses out on outspeeding Pokemon such as Nidoking and the aforementioned Lucario. Krookodile is a good revenge killer as well as a good switch-in against most Ghost- and Psychic-types, as it can trap and beat them with Pursuit. Krookodile can also switch into Electric-type attackers such Mega Ampharos and Rotom-H, as it is immune to their STAB attacks and can OHKO the former with Earthquake and threaten the latter with Knock Off or Stone Edge. Don't recklessly use Earthquake, though; if the opponent has a Flying-type or a Levitate user, it can come in without problems and forces Krookodile to switch while it uses the free turn to set up. Use Pursuit if you predict that the opponent will switch out a foe that is weak to Dark-type attacks, as it will get boosted power and most likely OHKO the foe. This Krookodile functions as a wallbreaker, so you can send it in to weaken a selection of physical walls, such as Suicune. Cleric support from Pokemon such as Sylveon or Florges is really appreciated, as these Pokemon have good synergy with Krookodile and burn will leave Krookodile quite weak. Pokemon that can take care of Fighting-types such as Celebi, Crobat, and Mega Aerodactyl make for great teammates, as Fighting-types really threaten Krookodile. Pokemon that can reliably beat Grass-types, such as Arcanine and Mega Beedrill, are fine partners as well. Steel-types such as Bronzong and Mega Aggron make for good partners, as they can beat the Fairy-types that hinder Krookodile. Pokemon that can pass through physically defensive walls such as Suicune and Forretress are great partners, as they prevent Krookodile from sweeping. Examples of these Pokemon include Mega Sceptile and Hydreigon. Knock Off is a powerful STAB move that cripples most switch-ins by removing their items. Earthquake has great Base Power and good coverage, meaning that it hits a variety of Pokemon very hard. Taunt can be used in the third slot to prevent foes from setting up entry hazards or boosting their stats. Pursuit is an option in the last slot to trap and beat opposing Ghost- and Psychic-types. Superpower can go in the last slot as well because of its great coverage, but it lowers Krookodile's Attack and Defense. Stealth Rock hurts foes on the switch-in and helps Krookodile to KO the foe with greater ease, so it can be used in the third or the fourth slot. Intimidate lessens the damage output of the foe's physical attacks, meaning Krookodile has better staying power against Pokemon such as Crobat and Lucario. Dread Plate or Earth Plate can be used depending on if you want to give a power boost to Earthquake or to Knock Off, but Life Orb is a good option for more overall power. Alternatively, Rocky Helmet can be used to inflict a little extra chip damage against certain physical attackers such as Crobat. The EVs maximize Krookodile's offensive capabilities, as they boost its Attack and Speed stats. 4 Defense EVs are invested to give a small boost to Krookodile's Defense, but they also let it hit an odd HP number, which lessens damage taken from Stealth Rock. A Jolly nature allows Krookodile to outspeed maximum Speed base 90s such as Lucario. A spread of 96 HP / 252 Atk / 160 Spe is another option that still outspeeds Adamant Lucario and Timid Chandelure and helps Krookodile stand up to physical attackers better. Alternatively, another spread of 252 HP / 96 Atk / 160 Spe still outspeeds Adamant Lucario and Timid Chandelure, but gives a bigger boost to Krookodile's bulk. Use Knock Off when you are unsure of what to do, as most Pokemon don't appreciate having their item removed. When you predict that a foe weak to Dark will switch out, which will most likely happen, use Pursuit to trap and KO it. Switch out of physical walls, as most of them can either inflict status on and cripple Krookodile or just completely outstall it. Pokemon such as Galvantula and Blissey provide Sticky Web or Thunder Wave support, respectively, which is useful because with this support, Krookodile will be able to outspeed Pokemon such as Mienshao and beat them before they can hit Krookodile. Special wallbreakers such as Hydreigon and Chandelure make for good partners, as they can beat the physical walls that hinder Krookodile from sweeping. Cleric support from Pokemon such as Florges or Vaporeon is very useful, as status such as burn really cripples Krookodile. Fire-types, such as Entei, which beat the Grass-types that resist Krookodile's main STAB move are great teammates as well. Flying-types such as Gyarados and Crobat are great partners, as they are capable of outspeeding and beating most Fighting-types. Magneton and Nidoqueen are examples of Pokemon that can beat Fairy-types, which Krookodile struggles against. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Metagross or the aforementioned Blissey is useful too, as it helps Krookodile KO its foes more often. Lastly, Fighting-type Pokemon such as Conkeldurr and Lucario are good teammates, as they can take advantage of Krookodile trapping Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon with Pursuit. Earthquake is Krookodile's most powerful STAB attack and has great coverage along with good Base Power, meaning it hits almost everything that doesn't resist it hard. Knock Off is a good STAB attack that also removes the item of the foe. Stone Edge is a powerful move that hits the Flying-types that are immune to Earthquake and also has great coverage against other Pokemon, such as Bug-types. Crunch can be used for permanent power in the third slot instead and has the added niche of hitting Mega Pokemon harder than Knock Off does. Pursuit traps Pokemon such as Chandelure and Espeon and deals more damage to them if they try to switch out. Moxie boosts Krookodile's Attack stat after it knocks out a Pokemon with an attack, and it is the best option on an offensive set like this. Choice Scarf is used as it gives a huge boost to Krookodile's Speed. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs let Krookodile hit very hard and allow it to to outspeed Pokemon such as maximum Speed Lucario. 4 Defense EVs are invested to give a little boost to Krookodile's Defense stat, while letting Krookodile hit an odd HP number which lessens the damage taken from Stealth Rock. A Jolly nature should be used on this set because it allows Krookodile to outspeed maximum Speed Mega Aerodactyl, which it wouldn't be able to do otherwise. Krookodile can be sent in to revenge kill a foe after one of Krookodile's teammates has been beaten. Aside from that, Krookodile can also be switched into most Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon, as it can trap and beat them with a Pursuit afterwards. Krookodile can switch into Electric-type attacks from Pokemon such as Rotom-C and Heliolisk, as it is immune to them. Don't recklessly spam Earthquake if the opponent has a Flying-type or a Levitate user, as it can come in, force a switch, and set up that turn. Use Pursuit if you predict the opponent to switch out a Pokemon weak to Dark-type attacks, as its power will be boosted and it will most likely OHKO that Pokemon. Lastly, this Krookodile can be used as a late-game cleaner once physical walls are gone, so try to remove those first. Cleric support from Pokemon such as Blissey or Umbreon is nice, as burns leave Krookodile weak and unable to function well. Pokemon that can get rid of threatening Fighting-types, such as Florges, Espeon, and Mega Aerodactyl, make for good partners too. Additionally, Pokemon that reliably beat Grass-types, such as Arcanine and Mega Beedrill, are fine partners as well, because Grass-types resist Krookodile's main STAB attack and can KO it with their STAB attacks. Steel-types such as Lucario and Mega Aggron are also good teammates because they can beat the Fairy-types that hinder Krookodile. Finally, Pokemon such as Mega Sceptile and Hydreigon, which can break through physically defensive walls such as Suicune and Forretress, are great partners for Krookodile, as walls prevent Krookodile from sweeping. A physically defensive set with Intimidate and a spread of 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 Def with an Impish nature is an option, but it's generally not worth running as it's mostly outclassed by Pokemon such as Gligar, which has better Defense and access to reliable recovery. Bulk Up and Hone Claws are options to set up with, but running one of these moves means that Krookodile misses out on a coverage move, which it cannot afford to do. Iron Tail is an option to hit Fairy-types such as Florges and Whimsicott, but it doesn't have reliable accuracy and most Fairy-types are hit hard by Earthquake or don't like having their item removed anyway. Aerial Ace hits Grass-types such as Mega Sceptile, Chesnaught, and Virizion hard, but it has low Base Power and poor coverage otherwise. Aqua Tail hits Rhyperior for more damage than Krookodile's other attacks, but the move has limited coverage otherwise. Fire Fang has good coverage and a chance to burn and flinch opposing Pokemon, but it has low Base Power and doesn't have any relevant targets aside from Forretress. Lastly, Dragon Tail can be used to force out a foe if they try to set up and makes the Pokemon that was dragged in take entry hazard damage, but most foes aren't able to set up after Taunt anyway, and it has low Base Power and bad coverage too.
Krookodile (SM competitive strategy): With the ability to fulfill many roles, Krookodile is a big threat in the UnderUsed metagame and is capable of fitting onto multiple team archetypes. Its great typing gives it excellent coverage between its STAB attacks as well as key immunities to Psychic- and Electric-type attacks and four helpful resistances. Its Intimidate ability further solidifies its defensive capabilities and allows it to function as a capable Stealth Rock setter. Krookodile also excels as one of the tier's best Choice Scarf users thanks to its ability to revenge kill several foes quite easily as well as take advantage of the switches it forces with STAB Pursuit. However, Krookodile's typing provides with as many useful resistances as common weaknesses, most notably to Fairy-, Water-, and Fighting-type attacks. Krookodile can also be hindered at times by its Speed tier if it isn't running Choice Scarf, which, while not bad, leaves it outsped by several offensive Pokemon, including Terrakion, Celebi, and Infernape. Lastly, Krookodile is also hurt by its only average damage output, which prevents it from breaking past especially bulky foes like Hippowdon, Suicune, and Alomomola. Knock Off is a powerful STAB attack that burdens most foes with the removal of their items. Earthquake is a very powerful secondary STAB attack that reliably revenge kills Pokemon like Infernape, Mega Manectric, and Terrakion. Pursuit punishes foes that may try switching out of Krookodile, such as Gengar, Latias, Nihilego, and Celebi, by trapping and either KOing or severely weakening them. Stone Edge nails Flying-types that may try switching in on Earthquake, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Togekiss, and Moltres. Crunch is an alternate option over Stone Edge that OHKOes even Z-Move variants of Latias after Stealth Rock, allowing Krookodile to revenge kill it reliably. It also deals greater damage to most Celebi sets, which usually run a Z-Crystal or Colbur Berry, than Knock Off. Superpower can also be used in the fourth moveslot to hit Hydreigon, a Pokemon that otherwise walls Krookodile, for super effective damage. Full investment in Attack maximizes Krookodile's offensive presence, and 252 EVs invested in Speed with a Jolly nature make it as fast as possible. A Choice Scarf further boosts Krookodile's Speed, allowing it to outrun prominent threats like Latias, Mega Manectric, and Starmie. Intimidate is the preferred ability, as it lowers foes' Attack stats, which allows Krookodile to switch in more easily. This set outspeeds every unboosted Pokemon in the tier as well as +1 Pokemon like Mega Altaria and Adamant Mega Sharpedo, so it should be used as a revenge killer. Krookodile should look to switch in on attacks it resists from Pokemon it can either revenge kill or Pursuit trap, such as Latias, Mega Manectric, and Nihilego. When a foe is predicted to switch out, it is best to use Pursuit to trap and deal heavy damage to it. Foes that will commonly switch out of Krookodile include Latias, Starmie, Gengar, and Mega Manectric. Knock Off should be used frequently early-game, as Krookodile will often annoy foes that even resist the attack by removing items. Most of Krookodile's attacks are rather undesirable to stay locked into for long, as this allows Pokemon like Cobalion, Suicune, and Scizor to begin setting up on Krookodile. Due to this, Krookodile should immediately switch out as its foe begins setting up and bring in a teammate that can reliably take care of the foe. Due to the nature of Choice Scarf, it is best that Krookodile carefully predicts when attacking. For example, if a Flying-type is expected to switch into an anticipated Earthquake, Krookodile should predict the switch by using Stone Edge to hit it super effectively. Fighting-types such as Infernape, Cobalion, and Terrakion appreciate Krookodile's ability to Pursuit trap the Ghost- and Psychic-types that often pressure them. Other Pokemon that enjoy the removal of Psychic-types like Latias, such as Tentacruel, Mew, and Suicune, also appreciate Krookodile as a teammate. Electric- and Grass-types like Zeraora, Mega Manectric, Celebi, and Roserade can pressure the bulky Water-types that Krookodile often struggles to break past. Krookodile also appreciates Psychic- and Fairy-types like Starmie, Mega Altaria, Togekiss, and Primarina thanks to their ability to threaten Fighting-types. Powerful wallbreakers like Primarina, Scizor, Terrakion, and Lucario can break past the bulkier Pokemon that Krookodile can have problems with while also potentially paving the way for it to clean late-game. Entry hazard support from the likes of Cobalion, Mega Aggron, and Nihilego can let Krookodile break past foes more easily. Klefki is a particularly good entry hazard setter to pair with Krookodile, as it can come in on Bug-, Fairy-, Grass-, and Ice-type attacks and appreciates the removal of Fire-types. Toxic Spikes from Tentacruel is also notably helpful to Krookodile, as Toxic poison punishes several Pokemon that try switching in on Krookodile, like Swampert, Suicune, and Mega Slowbro. Stealth Rock provides crucial entry hazard support for Krookodile and its teammates and pressures some of its common switch-ins such as Togekiss and Mega Aerodactyl. Knock Off heavily damages common Psychic- and Ghost-types like Latias, Starmie, and Chandelure and cripples defensive Pokemon such as Alomomola and Blissey with the removal of their items. The combination of Knock Off and Taunt allows Krookodile to hinder threats like Suicune, giving teammates an easier time in dealing with them. Earthquake provides a consistent STAB option for Krookodile that can heavily threaten foes such as Mega Manectric, Tentacruel, and Empoleon. Taunt helps Krookodile keep entry hazards off its side of the field from slower setters like Hippowdon and Mega Aggron while stopping walls such as Blissey and Quagsire from recovering HP or using Toxic. Taunt also shuts down Defoggers like Empoleon, Mew, and Rotom-H. Pursuit puts pressure on Dark-weak foes like Latias and Gengar and can effectively trap and remove them to benefit Krookodile and its teammates. Alternatively, Stone Edge can also be used in the last slot to hit Flying-types such as Togekiss and Moltres, but it lacks the utility of Taunt or Pursuit. 252 Attack EVs maximize Krookodile's offensive presence so it can deal with the Pokemon that it checks more easily, and 252 Speed EVs coupled with a Jolly nature allow it to outspeed common foes like Nidoking, Tentacruel, and Lucario. Intimidate cripples physical attackers such as Mega Aerodactyl and Mega Aggron, increasing Krookodile's longevity and ability to set up hazards against them. It also helps Krookodile take hits from some of its checks such as Choice Band Scizor. Iapapa Berry provides Krookodile with a burst of recovery when its health drops low, allowing it to stay in on Pokemon like Hippowdon and Mega Steelix to set up entry hazards and pressure them with Taunt and Earthquake respectively. Krookodile can utilize Groundium Z to power up Earthquake to a 180-Base Power Tectonic Rage that either OHKOes or severely weakens foes like Scizor and Mega Aggron. Focus Sash is also an option, guaranteeing that Krookodile survives a hit in order to perform its role, which can be especially useful on offensively inclined teams. Rocky Helmet is an option that further pressures physical attackers, damaging all contact move users and allowing Krookodile to weaken some of its answers like Scizor. Leftovers can be run as another option, providing Krookodile with a form of longevity. Iapapa Berry is also an option for improving its longevity, restoring Krookodile's health after it's been weakened and allowing it to more easily set Stealth Rock multiple times in a match. Krookodile should be primarily used early-game to set up Stealth Rock, taking advantage of its good matchup against other Stealth Rock users such as Gligar and Hippowdon to either cripple them with Knock Off or afflict them with Taunt. After Stealth Rock has been set up, Krookodile can utilize Taunt and its offensive typing to pressure Defoggers like Empoleon, Mew, and Rotom-H to keep its hazards up. Knock Off should be used liberally, particularly against defensive teams, to remove items early-game to cripple foes and make it easier for Krookodile's teammates to break them. Earthquake's high Base Power and overall good neutral coverage means it can be used frequently, especially to weaken or KO bulky hazard removers like Empoleon and Tentacruel. If Krookodile is running Iapapa Berry it can stay in on Pokemon like Mega Steelix and Rotom-H to use Earthquake and Knock Off respectively knowing it can regain lost health once its health drops below the threshold. If running Groundium Z, it should be saved for breaking past a particularly bulky target like Mega Aggron or OHKOing a crucial threat that avoids it otherwise. Focus Sash Krookodile should be used as your lead so it can immediately set up Stealth Rock, unless there are faster Pokemon like Froslass, Mew, and Crobat that can Taunt Krookodile, though Mew does have to risk the mind games between Taunt and Will-O-Wisp. Pursuit can be used when predicting a Pokemon that is severely threatened by Krookodile to switch out, particularly Latias and Chandelure, due to Krookodile's ability to survive an unboosted attack from them and retaliate for an OHKO on both. If Krookodile is severely weakened and Stealth Rock is up, it can be used to switch into some physically oriented answers, such as Crawdaunt and Scizor, to lower their Attack with Intimidate. Krookodile fits best on bulky offense and balance teams due to its offensive and defensive capabilities. Krookodile's vulnerability to the ever-present Fairy-type moves from foes such as Sylveon, Mega Altaria, and Primarina can be problematic, so bulky Steel-types like Empoleon, Scizor, and Doublade can act as switch-ins to them. Cobalion also pairs well with Krookodile due to its ability to absorb U-turn and act as a setup sweeper that can capitalize on Krookodile's hazards to punish foes. The aforementioned teammates can also switch into Grass-type moves from Celebi as well as U-turn from Scizor and Mega Beedrill. Pokemon that appreciate the constant chip damage that Stealth Rock provides and have the ability to force switches to capitalize on this are also appreciated; as such, strong wallbreakers like Primarina, Terrakion, and Latias, and sweepers like Mega Altaria and Mimikyu make for good teammates. These teammates can also take advantage of Krookodile's Knock Off support. Krookodile's average Speed stat leaves it outsped and pressured by foes such as Kyurem and Starmie; a faster partner that can take advantage of these checks, such as Mega Manectric or Mega Aerodactyl, is appreciated due to this. In addition, a Choice Scarf user such as Togekiss or Infernape is also an option. Due to Krookodile's lack of recovery, it is prone to being chipped and worn down. Wish support from Sylveon and Florges patches up this issue and enables Krookodile to set up Stealth Rock more consistently. Krookodile can run Beat Up as an option on Choice Scarf sets to deal with leads such as Froslass and Azelf as well as revenge kill Substitute Gengar better, however, it is very dependant on not losing members of its team to be of any use. Krookodile can run Iron Tail to help deal with common Fairy-types like Togekiss and Mega Altaria, but its shaky accuracy and poor coverage outside of this make it hard to justify. Fire Fang can be used if needed to OHKO Scizor, but it doesn't provide any other significant coverage. Choice Band is an option for giving Krookodile a decent amount of wallbreaking prowess and surprising Pokemon like Blissey and Mega Steelix. However, Krookodile's poor Speed and the drawbacks of its STAB attacks make this a difficult set to consistently put to effective use, which makes Pokemon like Nidoking and Mamoswine better options as Ground-type wallbreakers.
Krookodile (SS competitive strategy): Krookodile's solid offensive potential and utility options in Taunt and Knock Off make it a decent Stealth Rock setter in UU. Few Pokemon resist the combination of Earthquake and Knock Off, denting the likes of Nihilego, Galarian Slowbro, and even neutral targets like Primarina and Amoonguss. Intimidate lets Krookodile switch into resisted and neutral hits such as Lycanroc-D's Stone Edge without getting too worn down while also prevents late-game sweeps from Pokemon like Scizor. Moves like Stealth Rock and Taunt let Krookodile take on common Defoggers like Mandibuzz and Moltres while having Knock Off to ruin their longevity. However, Krookodile is quite frail, still being threatened by physical attackers like Cobalion, Scizor, and Zygarde-10% even after Intimidate, and its special bulk leaves it vulnerable to special attackers like Hydreigon and Salamence. Weaknesses to common types like Grass, Water, and Fighting hinder its defensive utility and leave it helpless against common Pokemon like Tangrowth, Primarina, and Keldeo. Coverage from Electric-types like Thundurus-T's Focus Blast prevents Krookodile from checking them despite its Electric immunity. Excadrill gives Krookodile immense competition as a utility Ground-type on teams, sporting a better defensive typing, having access to Rapid Spin, and being able to hit hard without investment in Attack. Hippowdon's access to reliable recovery and greater bulk also give Krookodile heavy competition as a Stealth Rock setter. Knock Off is useful for checks like Amoonguss, Swampert, and Celesteela, crippling them for Krookodile's teammates. Stealth Rock wears down Pokemon like Celesteela and Tangrowth for teammates like Thundurus-T and Primarina, and Krookodile matches well against entry hazard removers like Excadrill and Moltres. Toxic allows Krookodile to cripple checks such as Tangrowth and Tapu Bulu. Taunt prevents Stealth Rock and Defog from Pokemon like Excadrill, Swampert, Rotom-W, and Moltres. It also can deny recovery from Hippowdon and defensive Salamence. Leftovers offsets entry hazard damage and gives Krookodile longevity to keep threats like Nihilego and Excadrill in check more easily. Rocky Helmet lets Krookodile wear down Scizor and fully counter suicide lead Excadrill. Chople Berry lets Krookodile take Lycanroc-D's Close Combat and KO back with Earthquake. It also helps Krookodile take Thundurus-T's Focus Blast to then weaken or KO it. On hyper offense teams, Life Orb can be used to amplify Krookodile's offensive presence and let it pressure Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Rotom-W more easily. The given EV spread allows Krookodile to outspeed Excadrill while minimizing Earthquake's ability to 2HKO it while also allowing Krookodile to always survive an unboosted Close Combat from Cobalion. Krookodile's role compression and item versatility let it perform on both hyper offense and bulky offense teams that appreciate its Knock Off and Stealth Rock support. Spikes setters like Scolipede on hyper offense teams and Skarmory on bulky offense teams form entry hazard stacking cores with Krookodile, appreciating Krookodile's ability to stop Defog with Taunt. Skarmory, namely Iron Defense variants, also help take on Zarude, Azumarill, and Conkeldurr. Setup sweepers such as Thundurus-T and Necrozma work well with Krookodile, as it can set Stealth Rock up and weaken their checks such as Tangrowth and Primarina. Special attackers like Azelf and Nihilego appreciate Krookodile denting and crippling their checks in Chansey and Celesteela with Knock Off, paving their way to sweep. In return, they compensate for Krookodile's lower Speed tier and remove Pokemon like Conkeldurr, Zarude, and Tapu Bulu. Amoonguss can check Pokemonn like Primarina and Zarude for Krookodile, and together they can keep Lycanroc-D in check. Salamence forms a double Intimidate core with Krookodile, weakening Pokemon like Zarude and stopping setup sweepers like Gyarados from getting out of control. Krookodile is vulnerable against Fairy-types such as Azumarill and Togekiss so partners like Scizor, Rotom-W, and Tentacruel are valuable. Choice Band allows Krookodile to be a powerful wallbreaker, using its near unresisted STAB combination to threaten Pokemon like Excadrill and Amoonguss. However, this set faces competition from Zygarde-10% who is faster and has a more spammable attack in Thousand Arrows. Krookodile can also run a Choice Scarf set to be a decent revenge killer to the likes of Azelf and Raikou, but this set faces competition from other Choice Scarf users like Diggersby and Hydreigon due to them being stronger and having access to U-turn. Krookodile can opt for a more offensive Choice Scarf set with Moxie, letting it accumulate Attack boosts as it KOes enemies. However, the utility that Intimidate offers is more worth it to weaken Pokemon like Zygarde-10%, and Krookodile can't break past Grass-types and Hippowdon without enough boosts. Rindo Berry is an option to survive +1 Nihilego's Grass Knot and OHKO back with Earthquake.
Krookodile (SV competitive strategy): Krookodile is a fantastic progress maker in RU due to having access to Knock Off and important utility moves like Stealth Rock and Taunt while being incredibly threatening offensively thanks to its high Attack and the perfect coverage provided by its STAB moves and Gunk Shot. Although Krookodile is most often seen taking advantage of Intimidate and its decent defensive typing to act as an entry hazard setter and physical sponge, its Choice item sets can easily run away with games if not handled carefully thanks to its spammable STAB attacks, especially when assisted by Moxie. However, Krookodile suffers from a lack of recovery options, which hinders its longevity and ability to keep hazards up throughout the game. Its overreliance on immunities and resistances to switch in on wallbreakers like Magnezone and Mimikyu further holds it back defensively. Lastly, Krookodile's mediocre Speed tier renders it vulnerable to faster threats such as Mienshao and Focus Blast Gengar. Choice Band Krookodile is a ferocious wallbreaker with its nearly unresisted STAB combination of Earthquake and Knock Off. It is difficult to consistently weather Krookodile's attacks due to its resistance to Stealth Rock and serviceable natural bulk combined with Intimidate giving it many opportunities to hit the field against Pokemon such as Rotom-H, Necrozma, and Reuniclus. Gunk Shot gives Krookodile great coverage, hitting common checks to it like Chesnaught for decent damage, while also having the ability to spread poison. Close Combat gives Krookodile the ability to annihilate Dark-types like Umbreon and opposing Krookodile. Crunch can be used to consistently hit Pokemon such as Slowbro and Noivern once their item has been removed. Tera Dark allows for freakishly powerful Dark-type STAB moves, allowing it to OHKO Slowbro with a boosted Knock Off or Crunch after Stealth Rock and 2HKO Amoonguss with Knock Off. It also gives Krookodile the ability to shed its Ground typing, removing its Water- and Grass-type weaknesses and improving matchups into Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Choice Scarf Basculegion-F. Alternatively, Tera Poison can be used to flip its Bug- and Fighting-type weaknesses, giving it better matchups into Pokemon such as Mienshao and Terrakion. It also strengthens Gunk Shot, allowing Krookodile to completely crush its common checks like Chesnaught. Krookodile thrives on bulky offense and balance teams where it acts as a wallbreaker that provides defensive utility due to its Electric and Psychic immunities. Krookodile fits well with pivots that allow it to freely switch in without taking any sort of damage such as Magnezone, Noivern, and Jirachi, since it lacks recovery. Slowbro pairs well with Krookodile, as it resists the Fighting- and Water-type attacks from Pokemon like Mienshao and Barraskewda aimed at Krookodile, while Krookodile resists the Electric- and Ghost-type attacks from Magnezone and Gengar aimed at Slowbro. Slowbro also spreads paralysis with Thunder Wave, which Krookodile greatly appreciates, as it is slower that some potent offensive threats such as Mienshao and Gengar. Future Sight support from Slowbro and Reuniclus can threaten the Poison- and Fighting-types such as Amoonguss, Breloom, and Chesnaught that switch into Krookodile. Krookodile enjoys entry hazard control from the likes of Cyclizar, Noivern, and Talonflame due to its vulnerability to Spikes. The former two are also pivots that invite in Steel-types for Krookodile, while Talonflame is a great defensive presence capable of switching into a plethora of strong attackers such as Breloom, opposing Krookodile, and Mienshao. Balance teams that slowly whittle down the opposition, especially with Spikes support from the likes of Chesnaught and Quagsire, enjoy Krookodile's unique defensive profile as well as strong STAB Knock Off to remove the ever-present Heavy-Duty Boots and Leftovers. Bulky offense teams with multiple switch moves like U-turn from Pokemon like Cyclizar, Noivern, and Jirachi provide Krookodile with many entry points, capitalizing on its offensive and defensive utility to maintain hazards and wear down teams. Krookodile solidifies its place in the metagame as the premier offensive Ground-type, with access to Stealth Rock and Intimidate giving it great utility for an offensive Pokemon. Krookodile has advantages over other Ground-type entry hazard setters like Flygon and Hippowdon because of its combination of good Speed and access to Knock Off, which helps accumulate hazard chip damage by removing Heavy-Duty Boots from checks such as Slowbro. Taunt helps Krookodile disrupt slower Pokemon trying to setup on it like Cresselia and Porygon-Z while also being used to prevent other Pokemon like Hippowdon and Umbreon from setting up hazards and using status moves. Gunk Shot helps against switch-ins that would otherwise resist its STAB moves, hitting Chesnaught for super effective damage. Leftovers is preferred on Krookodile to passively recover on Pokemon it forces out, giving it more longevity and offsetting Stealth Rock damage. Tera Poison flips the weaknesses to Bug, Fairy, and Fighting into valuable resistances while giving Gunk Shot a STAB boost. Resisting Bug- and Fighting-type attacks is great for Krookodile, allowing it to resist U-turn from Cyclizar and take on Fighting-type Pokemon faster than it such as Terrakion and Mienshao. Tera Ghost similarly flips the weaknesses to Bug and Fighting, and allows Krookodile to block Rapid Spin from the tier’s most common hazard removal, Cyclizar. Stealth Rock Krookodile fits on balance and bulky offense teams that appreciate having a more offensive entry hazard setter that is able to force progress with Knock Off, stack hazard chip damage on Heavy-Duty Boots users, and threaten common hazard removal options like Cyclizar, Talonflame, and Noivern. Steel-types such as Empoleon and Jirachi make for good teammates, resisting Fairy-type attacks from Gardevoir that would otherwise threaten Krookodile. Empoleon also covers its Water-type weakness, and Jirachi appreciates having a teammate that can take Dark-type moves for it. Krookodile also appreciates physically defensive Pokemon like Slowbro and Talonflame that can switch into Fighting-types that threaten Krookodile such as Mienshao and Breloom. Offensive teammates such as Gengar and Armarouge benefit from Krookodile removing Assault Vest from their most common switch-in, Cyclizar, as well as Heavy-Duty Boots from Noivern. Choice Scarf Krookodile can fill many roles in a match; it can revenge kill weakened foes, force progress against bulky teams with Knock Off, switch into attacks that it resists to threaten slower foes with a KO, and clean up teams weakened by its teammates. Gunk Shot threatens Grass-types like Wo-Chien and Chesnaught and can poison Slowbro, which is otherwise able to check Krookodile once its item is removed. Stone Edge hits Flying-types like Noivern and Talonflame hard. Close Combat can OHKO Cyclizar and provides strong coverage for opposing Krookodile, Wo-Chien, and Crawdaunt. Stealth Rock allows Krookodile to be an entry hazard setter, letting more offensive teams forgo a more defensive hazard setter like Hippowdon or Empoleon. Choice Scarf makes Krookodile outspeed the entire unboosted metagame and other common Choice Scarf users like Basculegion-F and Gardevoir. Intimidate lets Krookodile take hits from physical attackers like Jirachi to force them out or revenge kill them. Moxie lets Krookodile be a late-game cleaner and sweeper that makes sacrificing Pokemon to bring others in much riskier for the opponent. Tera Poison lets Krookodile resist normally super effective attacks such as Moonblast from Gardevoir, Close Combat from Mienshao, and Giga Drain from Amoonguss allowing it to score KOs it may otherwise not have and begin its sweep with Moxie boosts. Tera Poison also empowers Gunk Shot, turning it into Krookodile's strongest STAB attack. Tera Dark is an alternative that boosts Knock Off, letting it OHKO Jirachi and Reuniclus after a bit of chip damage. It also removes Krookodile's weakness to Aqua Jet from Crawdaunt and Feraligatr. Choice Scarf Krookodile fits on more offensive teams that are looking for a sweeper that doesn't need to take time to set up or a revenge killer that can safely switch into or force out physical wallbreakers. Krookodile can switch into predicted Electric- and Psychic-type attacks from Magnezone, Armarouge and Reuniclus and force them out, but it needs to be careful when doing so, as these Pokemon usually carry coverage moves that threaten Krookodile. Spikes stacking teams can benefit immensely from Krookodile due to its ability to get rid of Heavy-Duty Boots with STAB Knock Off and sweep a weakened opposing team with Moxie boosts. Chesnaught can take the Grass- and Water-type attacks that threaten Krookodile while also taking Knock Off handily and setting Spikes. Poison-types like Gengar and Amoonguss can swap into the Fighting-, Fairy-, and Grass-type attacks that Krookodile would rather avoid while also baiting out Psychic-type attacks for Krookodile to freely switch into. Steel-types additionally can easily take the Grass- and Fairy-type attacks that threaten Krookodile, making Jirachi and Magnezone excellent partners. Krookodile is a great partner for Cyclizar, as it is able to threaten Ghost-types that come in and spinblock Cyclizar. It also synergizes with other entry hazard removers like Talonflame, which has an immunity to Ground and a 4x resistance Bug-type attacks and 2x resistance to Fighting-type attacks that threaten Krookodile, and Noivern, which can take Fighting-, Water-, and Grass-type attacks aimed at Krookodile while also removing hazards for it. Strong wallbreakers like Gengar can threaten defensive checks to Krookodile like Slowbro and Chesnaught, making progress against Pokemon that it struggles with. Defensive checks to Krookodile like Hippowdon and Gastrodon can also be threatened by strong special attackers like Armarouge and Hisuian Goodra. Scale Shot + Bulk Up or Moxie can be used alongside Loaded Dice to transform Krookodile into a deceptively strong setup sweeper, but it is often difficult to pull off due to it being very situational. Roar and Dragon Tail are decent options for phazing out setup sweepers such as Dragon Dance Flygon that could otherwise take advantage of Krookodile.
Orthworm (SV competitive strategy): Orthworm's place in ZU is defined by its extremely valuable Steel typing combined with its amazing natural Defense and an immunity to Ground-type moves through its signature ability, Earth Eater. With both Stealth Rock and Spikes at its disposal, Orthworm can be an excellent defensive entry hazard setter for its team; furthermore, it has multiple setup moves in Iron Defense and Coil that let it serve as both a defensive check to opposing physical attackers and a potential bulky setup sweeper with Body Press. Orthworm has two pain points holding it back from further success: special attacks threaten severe damage to it, and it can get worn down rapidly due to its lack of a reliable recovery move, especially if it loses its Leftovers. Orthworm is an excellent defensive Pokemon thanks to its great physical bulk, Steel typing, and complementary immunity to Ground from Earth Eater. Common Pokemon like Snorlax, Sandslash, and Sandaconda struggle to break through Orthworm on their own, while other Pokemon like Farigiraf and Mesprit must either dedicate a coverage move for Orthworm or Terastallize. Orthworm's fantastic defensive profile gives it ample opportunities to switch in and set up entry hazards with Stealth Rock and Spikes for its teammates. Orthworm is also a resilient hazard setter against Sandslash, one of the few common hazard removers. Heavy Slam has the best immediate power and coverage of Orthworm's attacks against foes like Sneasel-Hisui and Articuno, deals super effective damage to Froslass, and wrecks Whimsicott and Tera Fairy Pokemon such as Jolteon and Mesprit. Body Press is strong against Snorlax and Glastrier, and it 2HKOes heavier foes and Electric-types such as Magneton and Jolteon. The increased resilience and additional power to Body Press provided by Iron Defense enable Orthworm to beat physical attackers like Passimian and set up on setup sweepers such as Curse Snorlax. Orthworm can lean into its hazard setting capabilities by running Stealth Rock and Spikes, taking advantage of Choice item attackers like Mesprit and Sneasel-Hisui and accepting its own lack of longevity as a defensive Pokemon. Protect helps Orthworm maximize recovery from Leftovers and scout Choice item attackers like Passimian, Magneton, and Typhlosion. Tera Ghost makes Orthworm more secure against Fighting-type physical attacks like Close Combat from Passimian and Glastrier, Body Press from Regirock and opposing Orthworm, and Low Kick from Dodrio. Tera Ghost also enables Orthworm to block Rapid Spin from Sandslash to preserve the entry hazards it sets, and it's especially helpful against Hitmontop. Tera Electric leaves Orthworm without weaknesses, so it can more efficiently set hazards and take on physical attackers. Orthworm's EVs are tailored to patch up its lower special bulk to enable it to take on special attackers like Mesprit, Farigiraf, and Whimsicott more comfortably while still giving it enough physical bulk to survive a +2 Low Kick from Dodrio, Close Combat from Passimian, and 2 Low Kicks from Sneasel. Orthworm is a good fit for bulky offense teams looking for an entry hazard setter, and its limited longevity is a better fit for the playstyle compared to more passive hazard setters like Sandaconda. Offensive Pokemon such as Charizard, Jolteon, and Typhlosion adore checks to them like Snorlax and Regirock taking residual damage from Orthworm's entry hazards. Passimian, Mesprit, and Sneasel commonly run Knock Off, which complements Orthworm's entry hazards by removing Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon such as Hitmontop and Charizard and helping wear them down. Charizard can comfortably take Orthworm's attacks and threaten it out, so Orthworm appreciates support from partners like Snorlax and Lanturn that can threaten Charizard and other Fire-types like Typhlosion. Hazard removers like Lurantis are appreciated by Orthworm because residual damage from Spikes racks up quickly on it and limits its defensive capabilities. Rapid Spin users like Sandslash, Hitmontop, and Cryogonal remove entry hazards without removing Orthworm's entry hazards. Fighting-types like Virizion and Passimian can overpower Orthworm with their super effective STAB moves, so checks to them such as Mesprit, Charizard, and Weezing are appreciated. Orthworm is a great partner for Pokemon vulnerable to Ground-types, such as Jolteon and Lanturn. With Coil, Orthworm can act as an excellent progress maker and bulky wincon for its team, leveraging its excellent typing and Ground immunity to set up on foes like Sandslash and Sandaconda. Furthermore, other foes like Muk and Mesprit can often find it difficult to make progress against Orthworm without utilizing Terastallization. Iron Tail and Body Press cover much of the tier together, while Substitute lets Orthworm avoid burn from foes like Weezing and Spiritomb. Substitute also prevents Orthworm from being phazed by Dragon Tail from the likes of Dipplin and protects it from revenge killers like Passimian. Maximum Special Defense investment alongside a Careful nature helps Orthworm better withstand special attacks from foes like Jolteon, Lanturn, and Arboliva. Tera Ghost is used to help find setup opportunities against Fighting-types like Passimian and Virizion. Coil Orthworm pairs well with fast teammates like Jolteon and Hisuian Sneasel, which appreciate its ability to take advantage of Ground-type foes like Sandslash and Sandaconda. Other teammates like Lanturn, Articuno, and Typhlosion appreciate Orthworm's ability to use common checks like Arboliva and Snorlax as setup fodder. Fire-types can often be a significant struggle for Orthworm, so it appreciates teammates like Snorlax and Lanturn to check them. Without prior boosts, Orthworm can often have a rough time against opposing Fighting-types, so teammates like Whimsicott, Charizard, and Weezing can serve as invaluable support. Since Orthworm relies heavily on its Leftovers for its game plan, it appreciates Knock Off absorbers like Dipplin and Muk. Hazard support from teammates like Mesprit and Sandslash is often greatly appreciated to help weaken Orthworm's checks. Orthworm can opt to run a few other Tera types if it desires; Tera Electric allows it to avoid being hit super effectively by any attack, while Tera Poison and Tera Fairy provide a Fighting resistance as well as additional defensive utility in more specific matchups. However, these Tera types introduce weaknesses to wallbreakers like Mesprit and Magneton, which are more common than Ghost-types like Froslass and Rotom. Lastly, Orthworm can opt to run Rock Slide or Rock Blast to hit opposing Fire-types particularly hard on the switch, but it struggles to fit these over any of its moves without impacting its utility or ability to sweep.
Iron Valiant (SV competitive strategy): Iron Valiant stands out as a top-tier offensive Pokemon in OU, able to utilize its Speed; high attacking stats; and a wide movepool of setup, coverage, and utility to devastate any Pokemon that might attempt to check it. Its various sets, such as Swords Dance, Calm Mind, mixed, and Choice Specs, have very different counterplay from each other, and thus a well-played Iron Valiant can take out Pokemon such as Zapdos and Galarian Slowking that might want to check its Swords Dance and Calm Mind respectively. With Booster Energy, Iron Valiant becomes an incredible late-game cleaner and revenge killer, able to outspeed and subsequently threaten Pokemon such as Zamazenta, Dragon Dance Dragonite, and Darkrai. Choice Specs takes advantage of Moonblast's spammability and lets Iron Valiant break through and even 2HKO otherwise common Iron Valiant answers such as Assault Vest Hatterene, Galarian Weezing, and specially defensive Gliscor due to its sheer power. Iron Valiant can furthermore dip into its utility movepool, with options such as Encore, Destiny Bond, and Trick either to give it more setup turns, allow it to surprise typical counterplay even further, or emergency check opposing offensive threats. However, Pokemon such as Hatterene, Moltres, Tinkaton, and Corviknight as well as Tera Poison Pokemon such as Ting-Lu and Hisuian Samurott can check the vast majority of its sets, while Pokemon such as Dondozo and Galarian Slowking are able to reliably take on specific sets such as Swords Dance and Calm Mind, respectively, once they have been identified. This above issue is made worse, as Iron Valiant also struggles to fit all the coverage options it wants into one set, especially if it decides to utilize both its setup and utility options. Furthermore, its low bulk impedes its sweeping potential, as priority users such as Dragonite, Rillaboom, and especially Scizor can revenge kill it once it has been weakened. This low bulk also means that Iron Valiant can struggle to find safe setup opportunities, as while it can theoretically force out Pokemon such as Zamazenta and Heatran, they can simply stay in and trade with it due to its lack of immediate power and can potentially win against it outright. Iron Valiant also has limited defensive utility; while it can check Pokemon such as Kingambit and Lokix, it is lacking compared to other sweepers such as Dragonite and Zamazenta, which means that Iron Valiant can only really slot on more offensive teams as a result. Digging deep into its bag of tricks, mixed Iron Valiant makes full use of its wide movepool, powerful STAB attacks, and lightning-fast Speed with Booster Energy to be a devastating cleaner and speed control option. The mixed attacking combination of Moonblast and Close Combat flips the script on checks to its other sets like Landorus-T, Clefable, and Dondozo. Knock Off slams those that resist Iron Valiant's STAB moves, with a chance to 2HKO Galarian Slowking and offensive Gholdengo, as well as removing crucial items from Heavy-Duty Boots Moltres and Assault Vest Primarina. Iron Valiant outspeeds the entire unboosted tier as well as some boosted foes like Kyurem and Great Tusk and can use Encore on them, locking walls like Alomomola and Garganacl into recovery moves, threats like Ogerpon-W and Darkrai into setup moves, Pokemon like Gliscor and Corviknight into utility moves, and even priority users Kingambit and Raging Bolt into their priority moves. Alternatively, Destiny Bond can force lose-lose situations for the opponent, where they must sacrifice their own Pokemon in order to take down Iron Valiant. This is especially potent with Encore over Knock Off or Close Combat, as if the opponent tries to avoid Destiny Bond by clicking a non-attacking move, Encore punishes them for it. It is important to be careful on which move to drop, however, as dropping Close Combat means Iron Valiant misses the OHKO on Kyurem and Kingambit, as well as the 2HKO on Garganacl and Ting-Lu. Meanwhile, dropping Knock Off ensures Iron Valiant struggles into its checks like Galarian Slowking and Moltres, as it has no way to force meaningful damage. A more physically invested spread with 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe can be used to threaten foes like Galarian Slowking, Ting-Lu, and Gholdengo much harder. Tera Steel flips Iron Valiant's poor matchups into threats like Galarian Slowking, Iron Crown, and opposing Iron Valiant while giving it a useful Toxic immunity against Gliscor. Tera Fairy is an alternative pick to boost Iron Valiant's offensive capabilities, ensuring 2HKOs against Pokemon like Clefable, Zapdos, and Hatterene while allowing for OHKOs against threats like Zamazenta and Raging Bolt, as well as improving its matchup into opposing Iron Valiant. Tera Ghost can also be considered, granting an immunity to Dragonite's Extreme Speed and Great Tusk's Rapid Spin, with Encore mitigating Iron Valiant's newfound weakness to Kingambit's and Hisuian Samurott's Sucker Punch. Mixed Iron Valiant fits best on bulky offense and hyper offense teams, which greatly appreciate its ability to check other threats while being an offensive force in and of itself. It pairs excellently with Ogerpon-W, taking advantage of Ogerpon-W's checks like Zamazenta and Tera Dragon from the likes of Corviknight. In return, Ogerpon-W punishes Iron Valiant's checks like Moltres, Gliscor, and Gholdengo. Dragapult especially appreciates Iron Valiant's ability to threaten Kingambit, as well as Darkrai and Hisuian Samurott, and in return threatens Gholdengo, Galarian Slowking, Moltres, and Iron Crown and wears down shared checks like Assault Vest Primarina and Clefable. Great Tusk is another strong teammate, able to remove the entry hazards that cripple Iron Valiant, especially Sticky Web, as well as threatening Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking. Iron Valiant also works well with hazard setters like Landorus-T and Hisuian Samurott, appreciating the chip damage wearing down potential switch-ins like Assault Vest Primarina and Gholdengo, while Iron Valiant's Knock Off can remove the Heavy-Duty Boots from users like Alomomola to force hazard chip. They also threaten Galarian Slowking, Iron Crown, and Gholdengo; Hisuian Samurott additionally threatens Moltres. Meanwhile, Iron Valiant can beat Kyurem, as well as Zamazenta for Hisuian Samurott. Similarly, Glimmora is a natural partner on hyper offense teams, spewing out hazards that can enable a late-game cleanup by Iron Valiant, with its Toxic Spikes weakening Assault Vest Primarina and potential temporary checks like Hatterene. Iron Moth is another excellent partner for Iron Valiant as well, able to wear down their shared checks in Galarian Slowking and Moltres, especially with Knock Off forcing hazard chip onto both. Dragonite is a solid teammate as well, able to blow holes and weaken the opposing team for Iron Valiant to finish off, wearing down shared checks like Moltres and Clefable while luring in targets like Zamazenta, Corviknight, and Alomomola for Iron Valiant to exploit. Iron Valiant is a premier Calm Mind sweeper thanks to its special movepool and a Speed boost from Booster Energy. Moonblast 2HKOes every bulky Dragon-type as well as Ting-Lu +1\. Shadow Ball is super effective against Gholdengo, Pecharunt, Hatterene, and Iron Crown, making for an unresisted coverage combination with Moonblast. Psyshock can be used instead to OHKO Iron Moth after a Calm Mind boost. It also deals much more damage to special walls like Blissey and Clodsire. Encore lets Iron Valiant set up by locking foes like Corviknight and Gliscor into Roost and Protect, respectively. Iron Valiant can also use Encore to punish setup sweepers like Swords Dance Kingambit, Swords Dance Ogerpon-W, and Calm Mind Raging Bolt. Thanks to its 4x Dark resistance, Iron Valiant can even use Encore on moves like Kowtow Cleave from Kingambit, Dark Pulse from Darkrai, and Knock Off from Weavile despite its low defensive stats. Thunderbolt allows Iron Valiant to 2HKO Moltres and Corviknight and deals super effective damage to Primarina, 2HKOing Assault Vest variants at +1. Vacuum Wave is another option that lets Iron Valiant threaten faster weakened foes such as Choice Scarf Darkrai and Meowscarada, as well as get the jump on other priority moves such as Hisuian Samurott's Aqua Jet and Kingambit's Sucker Punch. A Modest nature, which lets Booster Energy boost its Special Attack instead, may also be used particularly on Sticky Web teams, which make up for the lack of a Speed boost. Tera Ghost increases Shadow Ball's odds of 2HKOing Assault Vest Iron Crown and OHKOing Gholdengo after a boost. It also lets Iron Valiant stay in on Dragonite trying to pick it off with Extreme Speed. Tera Steel flips Iron Valiant's weaknesses to Galarian Slowking's STAB options, helps it survive Moonblast from Pokemon like opposing Iron Valiant and Clefable, and lets it resist moves like Make It Rain from Gholdengo and Extreme Speed from Dragonite. Tera Electric lets Iron Valiant resist Steel- and Electric-type attacks from Gholdengo and Raging Bolt, respectively. As a bonus, Iron Valiant receives an immunity to paralysis, helping it against Galarian Slowking and Clefable. Iron Valiant is most commonly used on hyper offense. Its most defining and desirable trait is its high Speed when boosted, outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame and a great amount of the boosted metagame, with common examples being Speed Booster Energy Iron Moth and Dragon Dance Kyurem, which allows it to be a great anti-offense tool. A common answer to Calm Mind Iron Valiant, Galarian Slowking can even tank a +1 Shadow Ball and delete it with Sludge Bomb. Without Shadow Ball, Pokemon like Gholdengo, Iron Crown, and Hatterene can easily survive Iron Valiant's attacks and take it down. If Iron Valiant lacks Psyshock, Clodsire and Blissey answer it defensively, while Iron Moth can do so offensively. Without Thunderbolt, Moltres can force Iron Valiant out with Roar, causing it to lose its one-time Speed boost. Corviknight and Primarina can easily survive non-Thunderbolt Iron Valiant's attacks and take it out with Brave Bird and Moonblast. Cinderace can take anything barring a +1 Thunderbolt and threaten Iron Valiant with Pyro Ball. Landorus-T can set up entry hazards to help soften up opposing Pokemon. It can additionally bring in Iron Valiant safely with U-turn, potentially positioning it against Pokemon Landorus-T invites in, like Alomomola and Kyurem. Ting-Lu can take a +1 Moonblast and ruin Iron Valiant's sweeping attempt with Whirlwind, so pairing Iron Valiant with physical attackers like Hisuian Samurott and Ogerpon-W can help it out. Other special attackers, like Iron Moth, Gholdengo, and Raging Bolt, can help to overwhelm other Iron Valiant's checks like Corviknight and Primarina. Galarian Slowking can take on those three aforementioned special attackers individually, but not together. Knock Off users, like Hisuian Samurott, can also soften up the opposing team; item removal is particularly helpful against Moltres. Spikes set by Hisuian Samurott's Ceaseless Edge can help Iron Valiant in achieving KOs. Kingambit is an amazing partner to cover Iron Valiant's weaknesses, and Iron Valiant can do the same for it. Great Tusk tanks Kingambit's attacks but drops to Moonblast, while Galarian Slowking and Gholdengo are weak to Kowtow Cleave. Both Kingambit and Zamazenta also love Iron Valiant taking Moltres and Zapdos out, freeing them from potential burns and paralysis. Psyshock users like Gholdengo, Iron Crown, and Hatterene can take care of the stall matchup, and Iron Valiant returns the favor by taking Gholdengo out for them. Ogerpon-W can brute force its way through almost every Iron Valiant check, including Moltres, Corviknight, Primarina, Clodsire, and Blissey, with ease. It also has the option of running Encore to free up Iron Valiant. In return, Iron Valiant threatens Ogerpon-W's checks, like Darkrai, Dragonite, and Raging Bolt. Swords Dance Iron Valiant is an excellent cleaner and wallbreaker, leveraging its high threat level as an expected special attacker to force out many common physical walls such as Great Tusk and Zamazenta in order to set up a Swords Dance. It can then KO or cripple many of its standard checks such as Gholdengo, Galarian Slowking, and Moltres with a boosted Knock Off. Encore allows Iron Valiant to lock many Pokemon such as Garganacl, Kingambit, and Raging Bolt into disadvantageous moves, giving it more setup opportunities, while also ending potential sweeps from Pokemon, such as Dragon Dance Kyurem, Swords Dance Kingambit, and Calm Mind Raging Bolt if they use a setup move. Alternatively, Spirit Break can be used, allowing Iron Valiant to OHKO Great Tusk, unboosted Zamazenta, and opposing Iron Valiant after a Swords Dance boost. Iron Valiant is a fantastic user of Terastallization, as it makes use of a potential free turn to more easily set up Swords Dance. Tera Dark allows Iron Valiant to OHKO both Galarian Slowking and Dragapult with Knock Off without setting up Swords Dance. Tera Dark Knock Off also deals significantly higher damage to both Zapdos and Moltres. Meanwhile, Tera Steel allows Iron Valiant to flip all of its weaknesses into resistances, letting it set up on otherwise lethal attacks such as Gholdengo's Make It Rain, Corviknight's Brave Bird, and Galarian Slowking's Sludge Bomb, while also granting Iron Valiant a Toxic immunity, which is valuable against Pokemon such as Gliscor and Toxapex. Iron Valiant's wide coverage and high Speed allow it to run many alternative coverage moves and Tera types depending on your preferences. Tera Water can be used with Liquidation to OHKO key physical walls like Moltres, Gliscor, and Landorus-T after a Swords Dance boost. Tera Electric is another option, granting Iron Valiant a paralysis immunity, which can be helpful in letting it set up against Zapdos. Ice Punch can be used to nail Landorus-T and Gliscor without Terastallizing. Moonblast allows Iron Valiant a chance to directly OHKO offensive Great Tusk without setting up, which can be useful to open up certain partners such as Kingambit. If Iron Valiant is being used with Sticky Web support, it can run an Adamant nature so that Booster Energy raises its Attack instead, making it a more potent wallbreaker. Iron Valiant can also make use of alternative utility options bolstered by its high Speed. Destiny Bond allows Iron Valiant to effectively trade with an enemy Pokemon of its choice, while Taunt allows Iron Valiant to prevent key Pokemon such as Zapdos from recovering, making it easier for a partner to KO. Iron Valiant works best on hyper and bulky offensive teams as a late-game cleaner and speed control. It greatly appreciates entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Hisuian Samurott, Glimmora, Ting-Lu, and Iron Treads in order to improve its wallbreaking power. In turn, Iron Valiant can make their hazards even more potent by knocking off Heavy-Duty Boots from key targets like Dragonite and Galarian Slowking. Sticky Web setters such as Araquanid and Ribombee are also great partners, as Sticky Web can alleviate potential Speed ties from opposing Iron Valiant while also allowing slowing down Iron Valiant's other offensive checks like Choice Scarf Darkrai and Iron Boulder. Iron Valiant is excellent at luring and weakening many of the checks to its special sets such as Gholdengo, Moltres, and Galarian Slowking. Pokemon that benefit from these threats being weakened or removed, like Zamazenta, Kyurem, and Primarina, are thus excellent partners, as it becomes much easier for these Pokemon to sweep if their typical checks are weakened. Iron Valiant is a solid check to Raging Bolt, Hisuian Samurott, and Kingambit with Encore, making it a great teammate for partners that may struggle against these Pokemon, like Gholdengo, Darkrai, and Galarian Slowking. While Iron Valiant exerts a great deal of offensive pressure, it can still struggle with key defensive Pokemon like Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Dondozo, and thus Pokemon such as Kyurem and Ogerpon-W are useful to immediately pressure and KO these Pokemon. Iron Valiant's defensive profile is rather limited given its poor bulk. Support from bulky pivots such as Galarian Slowking, Zapdos, Moltres, and Landorus-T is thus appreciated to bring it in safely. In particular, both Zapdos and Moltres can punish powerful priority moves from key foes such as Dragonite and Scizor with their abilities. Gholdengo resists all of Iron Valiant's weaknesses and can spread paralysis to help Iron Valiant outspeed foes such as Darkrai and Zamazenta even after its Booster Energy is consumed. While this Iron Valiant set is great at luring Galarian Slowking and Gholdengo, it can still struggle against these Pokemon one-on-one, particularly if they are running Colbur Berry. Partners that can exploit them, such as Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, Darkrai, and Ting-Lu, are thus recommended. Iron Valiant can struggle against Toxic Spikes given that it is not running Heavy-Duty Boots, so a Toxic Spikes absorber, such as Galarian Slowking or Iron Moth, is recommended. Iron Valiant can have an awkward time against Iron Moth, which can survive any attack barring Liquidation at +2 and KO back with Sludge Wave. Pokemon that can check Iron Moth, such as Dragonite, Hisuian Samurott, and Landorus-T, are therefore great partners. Iron Valiant can utilize Choice Specs to become a potent wallbreaker thanks to its powerful Fairy-type STAB attacks and endless coverage options. With Moonblast, Iron Valiant outspeeds and obliterates many metagame staples like Raging Bolt, Kyurem, Great Tusk, and Hisuian Samurott. Shadow Ball targets Pokemon like Pecharunt, Gholdengo, and Galarian Slowking, which all resist Iron Valiant's Moonblast. Thunderbolt is useful, as it allows Iron Valiant to break through Moltres, Corviknight, and Toxapex, which can heal off Iron Valiant's attempt to make progress. Focus Blast can be used instead to 2HKO Blissey and threaten Dark-types without thudding into Steel-types such as Tinkaton, Corviknight, and Iron Crown. Trick provides Iron Valiant with great utility and a way to cripple defensive switch-ins like Moltres and Toxapex. Vacuum Wave is excellent at cleaning up endgames and enables Iron Valiant to revenge kill faster Pokemon like Darkrai and Weavile and take on Kingambit without the risk of Focus Blast inaccuracy. Psyshock can be used for a better stall matchup without removing Iron Valiant's ability to break, as Psyshock destroys Toxapex, Amoonguss, and Clodsire. Tera Fairy bolsters Iron Valiant's breaking power, scoring a 2HKO on the likes of Garganacl and Gholdengo and OHKOing slower offensive Pokemon like Ogerpon-W and almost always bulkless Kingambit. Tera Ghost can be used instead to take on sturdier Fairy-resistant foes, allowing Shadow Ball to 2HKO Galarian Slowking, Moltres, and, with Stealth Rock up, Tinkaton. Tera Ghost can also grant Iron Valiant an immunity to Dragonite's Extreme Speed and an emergency resistance to Poison-type attacks like Sludge Wave from Iron Moth, and it lets Iron Valiant lure in Kingambit to cripple with Trick or OHKO with Vaccum Wave. Choice Specs Iron Valiant fits best on balance and bulky offensive teams that can manage entry hazards well while also bringing Iron Valiant in safely. Hisuian Samurott and Ting-Lu are great partners, as they can pressure Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Clodsire and aid Iron Valiant with entry hazards that can ensure Iron Valiant gets the 2HKOs and OHKOs it might need, including ones against Tinkaton, Garganacl, and Ogerpon-W. Iron Valiant often invites Pecharunt in, so it appreciates having sturdy switch-ins such as Corviknight, Kingambit, and Galarian Slowking. Kingambit can threaten the aforementioned Pokemon that resist Iron Valiant's Moonblast, and in return, Iron Valiant can threaten Dondozo and Fighting-types like Great Tusk, Iron Defense Zamazenta, and Keldeo, which are all Pokemon Kingambit struggles to beat. Choice Specs Iron Valiant alongside Kingambit also forms a great offensive gameplan, where Iron Valiant is played very aggressively in order to break through teams early- or mid-game, which allows boosted Kingambit to clean up more easily late-game. Galarian Slowking and Corviknight can support Iron Valiant by handling faster threats, such as Speed Booster Energy Iron Moth, opposing Iron Valiant, and Choice Scarf Enamorus, as well as pivot it in safely with Chilly Reception and U-turn, respectively. Galarian Slowking also helps pin Toxapex with Future Sight. Ogerpon-W can pivot Iron Valiant in with U-turn to obliterate many of Ogerpon-W's common switch-ins like Raging Bolt, Zamazenta, and Dragonite. Iron Valiant also appreciates Ogerpon-W's ability to threaten Moltres, Clodsire, and Assault Vest Alomomola. Great Tusk is a notable teammate, as it threatens all of Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, Clodsire, Tinkaton, and Toxapex with Headlong Rush, pressures Moltres with Knock Off, and removes entry hazards away for Iron Valiant, helping it come in a lot more often. Choice Band Dragapult is a complementary breaker thanks to how it threatens Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, Iron Crown, Clodsire, and Toxapex. Choice Band Dragapult can also lure in Pokemon like Garganacl, defensive Zamazenta, and Kingambit and bring Iron Valiant in with a powerful U-turn. A set with Heavy-Duty Boots allows Iron Valiant to consistently switch into battle over the course of a longer game by ignoring entry hazards, letting it fit on balance teams to combat hazard-stacking strategies and provide the archetype with a Knock Off user, speed control and disruption with Encore. Choice Scarf gives Iron Valiant a permanent Speed boost so it can consistently revenge kill faster Pokemon such as Darkrai and Zamazenta and use Trick to cripple opposing walls such as Alomomola and Corviknight. Taunt can be used to allow Iron Valiant to stop recovery attempts from the likes of Corviknight and Garganacl, status attempts from Gliscor and Clefable, and phazing attempts from Ting-Lu's Whirlwind. Tera Blast Ground allows Iron Valiant to compress its coverage into a single moveslot to smack Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking, Galarian Weezing, Iron Moth, and Gholdengo for super effective damage and gain both an immunity to Raging Bolt's Thunderclap and a resistance to Poison-type attacks such as Sludge Bomb from Galarian Slowking. Tera Water, alongside Liquidation, can be used on Swords Dance sets to secure OHKOs against the likes of Landorus-T, Gliscor, Moltres, and Iron Moth that could otherwise take a hit from it. Focus Blast is an option on Calm Mind sets to hit Garganacl, Heatran, and Iron Treads for super effective damage while hitting Kyurem and Ting-Lu much harder, OHKOing the former at neutral while having a chance to 2HKO the latter with Stealth Rock. Choice Band sets can be used to lure in and break through traditional checks to physical Iron Valiant, such as OHKOing Gholdengo and Great Tusk, and 2HKOing Alomomola, Corviknight, and Hatterene, while being able to use Trick against physical walls such as Moltres and Dondozo that it may not threaten as easily, which helps teammates such as Kingambit and Dragonite that are otherwise walled by them. All-out attacking mixed sets can be used alongside Life Orb or Expert Belt to wallbreak more easily with its coverage options; however the recoil damage from Life Orb can hurt its wallbreaking capabilities and forces Iron Valiant to avoid being put into revenge killing range from Pokemon such as Dragonite, while Expert Belt doesn't help it against Pokemon such as Galarian Weezing that already wall it. Substitute is an option on Swords Dance and Calm Mind sets to scout opposing Pokemon to give Iron Valiant a free setup turn and protect it against Garganacl's Salt Cure, status attempts from users like Alomomola and Gliscor, and revenge killers such as Extreme Speed Dragonite and Choice Scarf Darkrai. Ice Punch and Thunder Punch allow Iron Valiant to achieve BoltBeam coverage on Swords Dance sets to grant it great coverage against most of the metagame and hit Pokemon such as Gliscor, Landorus-T, Alomomola, and Moltres for super effective damage. However, the move's low Base Power and dropping either Knock Off or Close Combat can allow Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Garganacl to potentially take on Iron Valiant. An Adamant nature alongside Shadow Sneak can be used on Sticky Web teams to give Swords Dance Iron Valiant a lot more power while still retaining some of its revenge killing and late-game cleaning capabilities.
Musharna (BW competitive strategy): inflict said passive damage. Because of these flaws, Musharna faces competition as a bulky Psychic-type from Duosion and Gothorita, the former of which is immune to passive damage while the latter has extra utility through Shadow Tag. wallbreakers such as Gurdurr, Choice Band Lickilicky, and Eelektross can against Lickilicky, Audino, and Regice, but it's still generally less such as Metang, Bastiodon, and Probopass become some of the most solid
Musharna (XY competitive strategy): Musharna stands out as one of the most physically bulky Pokemon in the tier, which in combination with reliable recovery in Moonlight makes it an excellent catch-all check to most physical attackers that can't hit it super effectively, such as Tauros and Archeops. While Mesprit is often a better choice for many roles due to its larger movepool and higher Speed, Musharna is usually a better choice for a bulky Calm Mind sweeper because Mesprit lacks reliable recovery. Musharna can run many different variants of its signature Calm Mind set, each of which is stopped in different ways, making it incredibly deadly if the opponent has mispredicted Musharna's set and preserved the wrong checks, and it can wipe out teams from the very start of the game if the opponent lacks appropriate countermeasures. However, its extremely low Speed ensures that Musharna quickly becomes dead weight if it's significantly weakened, meaning it must heal often to sweep or pivot consistently, and Moonlight's low PP prevents it from stalling out foes indefinitely. Furthermore, if Musharna chooses to run support moves instead of coverage, it can be quite easily walled regardless of its boosts if the opponent packs a Dark-type, and unless it runs Heal Bell, Toxic poison shuts it down completely. Calm Mind lets Musharna beat strong special attackers such as Charizard, Pyroar, and Magmortar after some boosts and gives Musharna some offensive presence after even just one boost thanks to its solid Special Attack. Calm Mind can also be used against physical attackers that can't threaten Musharna back, such as Hitmonchan and Garbodor. Psyshock hits specially bulky Pokemon such as Magmortar and Hariyama as well as giving Musharna the significant upper hand versus other Calm Mind users such as Mega Audino and Xatu. Alternatively, Psychic can be used to hit physically bulky Pokemon such as Weezing and Vileplume harder unboosted. Moonlight is Musharna's best means of recovery, letting it set up with impunity against weaker attackers. Signal Beam lets Musharna hit most Dark-types such as Shiftry and Malamar for good damage as they switch in or if Musharna has accrued enough boosts to stop specially offensive threats such as Defog Skuntank; the move is especially useful with Colbur Berry so that Musharna can take an attack and strike back. Thunder Wave slows down the fast threats that Musharna is often faced with, can provide extra setup opportunities, and can provide extra turns of recovery when the foe is fully paralyzed. Heal Bell can be used to counteract Musharna's weakness to Toxic poison and to support its teammates, but its low PP makes it easy for checks such as Steelix to stall the move out, and it's generally best left to supportive sets. 240 HP EVs provide Musharna with a Leftovers number, while the remaining EVs and a Bold nature are used to maximize Musharna's physical bulk, letting it counter physical attackers such as Hitmonchan and Garbodor and giving it more opportunities to set up Calm Mind boosts, which eventually supplements Musharna's lower Special Defense. 16 Speed EVs can be used to let Musharna outspeed Steelix. Synchronize is the best ability for this set because it punishes opponents that attempt to inflict status on Musharna to stop a sweep, such as Mantine and Pelipper. Leftovers gives Musharna some passive recovery that turns some 2HKOs into 3HKOs, such as Swellow's Boomburst and Floatzel's Hydro Pump, and reduces Musharna's reliance on Moonlight to tank hits, making its meager 8 PP stretch further. Colbur Berry is another great option that lets Musharna deal with Knock Off from Hariyama more easily as well as lure in usual checks such as Shiftry and Malamar and beat them with Signal Beam. Early-game, Musharna should generally pivot into foes which cannot break it, such as Hitmonchan and Archeops, and proceed to fire off attacks. Alternatively, Musharna can be either used to lure in Dark-types such as Shiftry and Malamar and beat them with Signal Beam or conserved until late-game when its checks have been removed, taking setup opportunities when given but only if you feel it can sweep without any obstacles. A full-HP Skuntank, a Steelix known to have Toxic, and a number of other things can easily cut a sweep short. Musharna's HP should be conserved whenever possible so that it can switch into and avoid the 2HKO from strong physical attackers such as Archeops and Tauros before healing up with Moonlight. Musharna can easily get worn down throughout the course of a match, so keeping this in mind can be vital to your success. If Musharna runs Heal Bell or Thunder Wave, it has a stronger early-game presence that can be used to support its teammates at the cost of late-game utility. Fighting-types such as Hariyama, Primeape, and Hitmonchan are great for switching into and threatening the Dark-types that prevent Musharna from sweeping. This is important even if Musharna uses Signal Beam, as threats such as Skuntank can still get around it, and it relieves pressure on Musharna so that it can sweep more effectively. Similarly, Mega Audino is a good partner that can threaten most Dark-types and either provide Heal Bell support or act as a supplementary sweeper while also being able to pass Wishes and provide Musharna with more setup opportunities, in addition to being immune to Trick. Meanwhile, defensive threats that are weak to Fighting-type attacks, such as Ferroseed and Regice, highly appreciate Musharna's being a sturdy response to these attacks. Grounded Poison-types such as Garbodor and Skuntank are able to absorb Toxic Spikes, which also plagues Musharna, and are mandatory against teams that pack that entry hazard to ensure a late-game sweep. Pursuit trappers such as Skuntank and Liepard can deal with opposing Psychic- and Ghost-types that can either wall Musharna that lack Psyshock with their own Calm Mind boosts or hit it hard with status and super effective Hexes, such as Xatu and Mismagius. Calm Mind both boosts Musharna's Special Attack and Special Defense and raises the Base Power of Stored Power, rapidly increasing Musharna's offensive capability. Barrier makes Musharna almost impenetrable to physical attacks and also increases the Base Power of Stored Power, meaning that Musharna can inflict reasonable damage even without using Calm Mind if it is too pressured to do so. Moonlight gives Musharna a recovery option to help it succeed against Pokemon that can still deal significant damage to it after a few boosts, such as Choice Band Scyther, and it generally gives Musharna an easier time initially setting up boosts. Stored Power can hit anywhere between 20 and 360 Base Power depending on the number of boosts Musharna has. This can get scary pretty quickly if your opponent is not well equipped to deal with it, OHKOing almost any non-Dark-type after Musharna has maximized its Special Attack stat. 240 HP EVs give Musharna a Leftovers number, while the remaining EVs and a Bold nature are used to make it as physically bulky as possible, letting it beat physical attackers such as Hitmonchan and Garbodor and set up Calm Mind boosts more easily, which eventually fix Musharna's lower Special Defense. While this is generally the most effective approach, as Calm Mind increases Musharna's Special Attack at the same time as it patches up its special bulk, a specially defensive spread can be used instead to let Musharna switch into special attackers such as Floatzel and Swellow more easily, with Barrier fixing Musharna's Defense as physical attackers switch in. 16 Speed EVs can be used to outspeed Steelix and grab an extra Calm Mind before it uses Toxic, potentially allowing Musharna to beat Steelix 1v1 with Stored Power. This can be useful if you have a Healing Wish user that can give Musharna another chance at a full sweep later in the match. Synchronize is the best ability for this set because it punishes foes that attempt to inflict status on Musharna to stop a sweep, such as Mantine and Pelipper. Leftovers gives Musharna some passive recovery so that it can rely less on Moonlight to stay healthy, making its pitiful 8 PP stretch further. This set should be played as a dedicated wincon, not being brought in until it has a high probability to sweep the opponent's team. As this set lacks other useful support options, such as Heal Bell, or a coverage move such as Signal Beam, and it has no immediately powerful STAB attack to hit Fighting- and Poison-types with, it is generally much worse as a pivot, only being able to heal up with Moonlight or force something out with Barrier and then switch out, giving the opponent momentum. Removing Dark-types, Toxic Spikes, and any potential Toxic users on the opposing team is key to ensuring a clean sweep with Stored Power. However, it is possible to beat Dark-type Pokemon that Musharna cannot damage through means of passive damage such as Life Orb recoil, poison, and burn. Given the ease with which Musharna can boost its defensive stats, setting up on a Dark-type that is equipped with a Life Orb and either weakened or afflicted with damaging status can be plausible. Barrier should be used against physical attackers or when the opponent is likely to switch in a physical threat such as Choice Band Scyther to stop Musharna, while Calm Mind should be used when the opponent is likely to bring in a special attacker, such as Aurorus or a rival Calm Mind user, or just when Musharna has free turns in general. Moonlight should be used when Musharna is in range of being KOed by a surprise critical hit and a subsequent follow-up attack, to minimize the risk of critical hits disrupting Musharna's sweep. However, if Moonlight's PP is running low, it can be worth the risk to wait for longer before healing if Musharna's health would not fall below 50% after an attack. Generally speaking, Stored Power should only be used when it's strong enough to OHKO a foe to avoid giving it more turns to potentially land a critical hit; this means that Musharna should usually secure one or two Calm Minds regardless of how many Barrier boosts it has before attempting a KO. Going all the way to +6 Defense, Special Attack, and Special Defense is generally unnecessary unless Musharna is your last Pokemon and the opponent has a dedicated Pokemon that resists Psychic-type attacks, such as Metang, due to Stored Power's ridiculous Base Power. For the most part, Dark-types absolutely have to be removed before Musharna can sweep. Fighting- and Bug-types such as Primeape, Hariyama, Scyther, and Pinsir can inflict heavy damage to most Dark-types, especially if they run Earthquake to deal with Skuntank reliably. Using a second Psychic-type with Signal Beam and Hidden Power Ground, such as Calm Mind Mesprit or Choice Specs Beheeyem, can be useful for luring in Dark-types such as Skuntank and securing the KO with their boosted coverage moves, with Explosion Shiftry also being a good lure for Skuntank in particular. This set is also extremely vulnerable to Toxic poison, so using grounded Poison-types such as Vileplume and Skuntank, potentially in combination with a reliable Defog user such as Pelipper, is important for removing the threat of Toxic Spikes. Heal Bell and Healing Wish users also greatly benefit Musharna by removing status after the fact and giving Musharna more chances to sweep, with Mega Audino being a good choice for either role due to its ability to take on Dark-types with its Fairy typing. A set can be used without Calm Mind, making room for an extra support move such as Heal Bell or Thunder Wave instead, sacrificing sweeping potential and offensive utility for more consistent team support. Alternatively, Musharna can use its low Speed to its fullest potential by running an offensive Trick Room set with maximum Special Attack EVs, a Quiet nature, and Life Orb, using coverage options such as Signal Beam, Shadow Ball, Hidden Power Ground, and Energy Ball KO specific targets that it lures in such as Malamar, Mismagius, Steelix, and Gastrodon. Choice Specs can be used alongside the aforementioned coverage moves to surprise counters, but such a set is generally less consistent at wallbreaking than the likes of Mesprit. Magic Coat can be used on the standard Calm Mind set to block status users and entry hazards with prediction, but generally doesn't help Musharna sweep more consistently, with Steelix, the most common response to Musharna, being immune to Toxic itself. Kee Berry can also be used to further increase Musharna's physical bulk as it stacks Calm Mind boosts, but the passive recovery from Leftovers is sorely missed.
Musharna (SM competitive strategy): Musharna serves as one of the most reliable answers in PU to Fighting-types such as Gurdurr and non-Toxic Hitmonchan thanks to its typing, great bulk, and access to reliable recovery in Moonlight while also being a decent answer to Victreebel and Eelektross. Musharna is also the only viable user of Future Sight in PU, offering massive levels of wallbreaking support to its teammates by setting up situations where the opponent is unable to switch to their checks to Musharna's teammates without taking a huge amount of damage. Healing Wish also allows Musharna to greatly support its teammates by restoring a sweeper / wincon later in the match, allowing them to play more aggressively early-game, while also pairing well with Future Sight by potentially offering a teammate a free switch in to take advantage of it. Musharna can also viably run Calm Mind sets in order to serve as a late-game sweeper itself while still providing a strong answer to Fighting-types during the earlier stages of a match. Musharna can also forgo its defensive utility to act as a dangerous setup sweeper with a Calm Mind + Barrier set, allowing it to set up on strong physical attackers such as Stoutland, make itself harder to revenge kill, and prevent itself from being Toxic stalled via Rest. This set can also utilize Stored Power to act as a dangerous stallbreaker by breaking through Pyukumuku and more immediately threaten more offensive teams. Musharna is, however, held back by its low Speed, which usually forces it to take a hit before it is able to heal itself or attack, and the low PP of Moonlight, which limits the number of times it can switch in per battle, especially when entry hazards are present. Also, while Musharna's bulk is good, it falls short against targets such as Stoutland and Aggron. Musharna's typing gives it an unfortunate weakness to Dark-types such as Absol and Skuntank, which are capable of Pursuit trapping it and completely walling Stored Power versions of its Barrier set. Future Sight helps to overwhelm defensive checks to Musharna's teammates by combining with other attacks two turns later and generate momentum by forcing in Pokemon that resist it. Dazzling Gleam allows Musharna to hit Dark-type Pokemon such as Skuntank, Absol, and Alolan Persian, OHKOing the latter two, preventing them from easily Pursuit trapping Musharna or using it as setup bait. Healing Wish allows Musharna to sacrifice itself to fully restore a teammate and cure it of status, offering it another chance to sweep or break through the opposing team. 128 HP EVs allow Musharna to avoid a 2HKO from Gurdurr's Knock Off after damage from Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes, while 92 Speed EVs allow Musharna to outspeed Gurdurr. Maximum Special Attack ensures that Musharna hits as hard as possible, letting it OHKO Gurdurr with Future Sight and 2HKO Gurdurr with Dazzling Gleam. Psychium Z turns Future Sight into a powerful Shattered Psyche once per match, allowing Musharna to immediately threaten Pokemon such as Mudsdale, Eelektross, Lanturn, and Victreebel, as well as OHKOing Pokemon such as Carracosta and Omastar, preventing them from using Musharna as setup bait and swapping out before Future Sight hits them. It also allows Musharna to beat Audino, which would otherwise wall it, with Shattered Psyche followed by Future Sight. Colbur Berry is an alternative option if another Pokemon is holding a Z-Crystal, allowing Musharna to stay in against Alolan Persian and Choice Band Absol and remove them with Dazzling Gleam and offering a one-time damage reduction when switching out against Pursuit users such as Absol and Skuntank. Synchronize is the ability of choice, allowing Musharna to punish Pokemon such as Oricorio-E, Mudsdale, and Regirock for using Toxic against it. Musharna should aim to use Future Sight to help break down the opposing team by combining it with other attacks to overwhelm their Pokemon, due to it allowing two attacks to hit in a single turn. This can also help Musharna's team gain momentum from the opponent swapping to Psychic switch-ins such as Ferroseed and Skuntank in order to absorb the Future Sight hit. Due to its Psychic typing and decent physical bulk, Musharna acts as a strong Fighting-type check and should be brought in on Pokemon such as Hitmonchan and Gurdurr. It can also punish Primeape for locking into a move other than U-turn, but swapping Musharna into Primeape directly is risky due to said U-turn. As a Psychic-type, Musharna is weak to Pursuit trapping from Dark-type Pokemon such as Absol and Skuntank. If predicting the opponent to swap to Absol, it is often wiser to use Dazzling Gleam, as it will OHKO Absol; however, it is advisable to double switch if expecting Skuntank instead, as Dazzling Gleam does not 2HKO it. If Musharna is running a Colbur Berry, however, it can afford to stay in and can also beat Alolan Persian one-on-one. Musharna should prioritize staying healthy and conserving Moonlight PP in matchups where it is needed to check Pokemon such as Gurdurr due to it easily being worn down by chip damage from entry hazards and status. If running Psychium Z, Musharna should prioritize using Shattered Psyche against targets that would otherwise use it as setup bait such as Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G, as the move is capable of KOing them after Stealth Rock damage even if they have used Calm Mind. Other setup sweepers such as Carracosta and Turtonator are capable of using Shell Smash against Musharna, attacking once, and then either switching out before Future Sight hits or claiming a second KO and fainting, which Shattered Psyche can prevent. In matchups lacking these sort of Pokemon, or if Musharna's teammates adequately deal with them, Musharna can instead aim to use Shattered Psyche to remove Pokemon that might be problematic for its team such as Victreebel and Mudsdale. Musharna should avoid using Healing Wish until it is necessary in order to win the match by fully restoring a wincon such as Kangaskhan or Gurdurr. Healing Wish is particularly valuable when used directly after Future Sight, as it offers the recipient Pokemon a free switch in on the turn that Future Sight hits, granting valuable momentum for Musharna's team. If Musharna is no longer necessary, has run out of Moonlight PP, or cannot find opportunities to heal itself anymore, it can be brought in against status users such as Mudsdale and Regirock on a predicted use of Toxic to cripple them via Synchronize. Musharna fits mainly on bulky offense teams, where it acts as a strong Fighting-type check and can help its teammates break through the opposing team thanks to Future Sight. Entry hazards have great synergy with Future Sight, punishing the enemy for switching in Psychic-resistant Pokemon such as Metang and Skuntank on the turn that Future Sight hits. Stealth Rock users such as Mudsdale and Regirock fit nicely, helping to deal with Skuntank, which is one of Musharna's best checks, although Mudsdale must watch out for Acid Spray variants. They also help to deal with strong physical attackers that can overwhelm Musharna such as Choice Band Dodrio and Stoutland. Spikes setters such as Qwilfish and Ferroseed appreciate Musharna's ability to switch in on Psychic- and Fighting-type attacks from Pokemon such as Claydol and Gurdurr. Musharna can also act as a Knock Off sponge for Ferroseed, which does not appreciate losing its Eviolite. Kangaskhan pairs well with Future Sight Musharna, as Fake Out allows it to make opposing Pokemon flinch on the turn Future Sight hits. Future Sight also helps to punish common switch-ins to Kangaskhan such as Mudsdale, which is KOed by the combination of Double-Edge and Future Sight after one layer of Spikes; Regirock, which is 2HKOed by Earthquake after taking damage from Future Sight; and Gurdurr. Kangaskhan also greatly appreciates Musharna's Healing Wish due to the recoil damage from Double-Edge. Fighting-types such as Primeape, Hitmonchan, and Gurdurr punish Dark-types such as Absol and Skuntank for swapping in to absorb the Future Sight hit. In return, Future Sight helps them break past physically bulky Pokemon such as Mudsdale and Tangela, Poison-types such as Qwilfish and Victreebel, and Flying-types such as Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G. Hitmonchan can also provide entry hazard removal via Rapid Spin, while Gurdurr greatly appreciates the Healing Wish support provided by Musharna, giving it a second chance to sweep. Physical Skuntank sets can Pursuit trap consistent Future Sight switch-ins such as Bronzor and Metang, Ghost-types that can threaten Musharna such as Haunter, offensive Jellicent, and Oricorio-G, opposing Musharna with Calm Mind that may attempt to set up against Musharna, and threats that try to avoid getting hit by Future Sight. Skuntank also appreciates Future Sight hitting its switch-ins such as Regirock and Mudsdale and Musharna's ability to pivot into Fighting-types such as Gurdurr. Cryogonal and Alolan Sandslash can also offer Rapid Spin support to Musharna's team and appreciate Musharna being able to swap into Fighting-types such as Gurdurr and Hitmonchan. In return, Cryogonal can help beat Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G, which can freely set up on Musharna with Calm Mind if Musharna isn't running or has expended Psychium Z. Calm Mind allows Musharna to take advantage of its great bulk and good matchup versus Pokemon such as Gurdurr, Victreebel, and Cryogonal to set up and break through opposing teams. Dazzling Gleam allows Musharna to hit Dark-types such as Skuntank and Absol, which would otherwise wall and Pursuit trap it. Maximum Defense and HP investment with a Bold nature allows Musharna to take on physical attackers as well as possible, avoiding a 2HKO from Kangaskhan's Double-Edge and an OHKO from +2 Lycanroc's Splintered Stormshards. Fairium Z allows Musharna to use a more powerful Twinkle Tackle capable of OHKOing Absol, Sableye, and Alolan Persian without chip damage or Calm Mind boosts. It also allows Musharna to take less damage from Knock Off from Pokemon such as Gurdurr, prevents Pokemon such as Rotom-F from using Trick to cripple it with a Choice Scarf, and allows Musharna to deal with Skuntank better, having a chance to OHKO Skuntank at +1 after Stealth Rock damage. A Colbur Berry can be run instead if another Pokemon is using a Z-Crystal to allow +1 Musharna to survive +2 Black Hole Eclipse from Alolan Persian and Choice Band-boosted Knock Off from Absol while giving Musharna a one-time buffer against Pursuit users such as Absol and Skuntank. Synchronize allows Musharna to punish Pokemon such as Mudsdale and Claydol for using Toxic against it. Calm Mind Musharna will often struggle early-game to break teams featuring Pokemon such as Bronzor, Metang, and Clefairy, due to their ability to Toxic stall Musharna without repercussions from Synchronize; Clefairy can also use Calm Mind itself to PP stall Musharna. Early- and mid-game, Musharna should instead be used to check Pokemon such as Gurdurr and Hitmonchan for its teammates if necessary; however, it should be wary of switching in too often due to the low PP of Moonlight, especially when entry hazards are present. Musharna should avoid setting up on Pokemon that carry Toxic such as Mudsdale and Regirock if possible, as it will need multiple turns to break through such Pokemon due to its low initial power. However, Synchronize will poison them back, which Musharna's teammates can potentially take advantage of. Furthermore, if Musharna's team features a cleric, Musharna can more freely do this. Musharna should also avoid trying to set up in hail due to the reduced healing from Moonlight. Musharna should instead prioritize setting up on targets such as Cryogonal, non-Toxic Hitmonchan, and Primeape that have already locked into a move due to their low damage output versus Musharna. If defensive checks to Musharna such as Metang and Toxic Audino or offensive checks such as Stoutland are still present, however, it is wiser for Musharna to either double switch, heal itself with Moonlight, or directly attack on the switch. If Musharna is running Fairium Z, it should prioritize using Twinkle Tackle against Pokemon such as Absol and Skuntank, as these Pokemon can otherwise Pursuit trap Musharna or cripple it with Choice Band-boosted Dark-type moves. The Z-Move allows Musharna to OHKO Absol without a Calm Mind boost and have a decent chance to OHKO Skuntank after one Calm Mind boost. If Musharna is instead running a Colbur Berry, Musharna can use it as an opportunity to stay in against Absol, although against Skuntank, it is wiser to use the Berry to reduce the damage from potential Pursuit while switching out unless Skuntank has been significantly chipped, as +1 Dazzling Gleam only 3HKOes Skuntank. Musharna fits mainly on balance teams that appreciate its ability to serve as a Fighting-type check, secondary answer to Pokemon such as Kangaskhan and Victreebel, and late-game wincon with Calm Mind. Entry hazard setters such as Regirock and Metang help check strong physical wallbreakers that Musharna can't deal with such as Dodrio and Stoutland, while Metang can also pressure Skuntank with Earthquake. Regirock can also help deal with Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G, which can use Calm Mind against Musharna and beat it if Musharna has spent some PP on its attacking moves earlier in the match. In return, Musharna is able to switch into and counter Gurdurr. Alolan Sandslash is able to provide entry hazard removal and help against hail teams, which Calm Mind Musharna struggles against due to its passivity and low Speed, its reduced healing from Moonlight during hail, and its inability to hit opposing Alolan Sandslash hard. In return, Musharna provides Alolan Sandslash with a strong Fighting-type answer, patching up the latter's weakness to Pokemon such as Gurdurr and Hitmonchan. Clerics make good partners for Musharna, as being poisoned can severely limit its effectiveness by putting it on a timer, and cleric support can allow it to potentially make use of Synchronize against multiple Pokemon in a single battle. Lurantis can help break through Pokemon such as Audino and Metang, which can Toxic stall Musharna while taking very little from any of Musharna's attacks. In return, Musharna helps Lurantis deal with Victreebel and Articuno. Lurantis can also provide entry hazard removal with Defog if the role compression is necessary. Lanturn is another option for a Heal Bell user that can help beat non-Taunt Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G while providing momentum for its team with Volt Switch, helping to bring Musharna in on Pokemon such as Hitmonchan. In return, Musharna can help deal with Pokemon such as Gurdurr, Kangaskhan, and Victreebel. Pokemon such as Gurdurr and Jellicent can help break through Steel-types such as Metang, Ferroseed, and Alolan Sandslash. In return, Musharna is able to check Victreebel and help break Sableye for Gurdurr. Strong wallbreakers such as Stoutland help break the opposing team and Musharna walls such as Audino early-game so that Musharna can act as a late-game wincon. In return, Musharna is able to swap into Pokemon that may attempt to revenge kill Stoutland such as Primeape and Kangaskhan, although it must watch out for U-turn from Primeape. Fighting-types such as Gurdurr and Combusken can help to break the bulky Steel-types that Musharna struggles to break through like Ferroseed, Metang, and Bronzor. Gurdurr, in particular, can remove Eviolite from these Pokemon and hit the latter two super effectively with Knock Off while taking advantage of status such as Toxic poison due to Guts. Dazzling Gleam offers Musharna a reliable attack that no Pokemon are immune to and OHKOes threatening Dark-types such as Absol and Alolan Persian after a Calm Mind boost. Stored Power is an option over Dazzling Gleam that allows Musharna to capitalize on its stat boosts to hit much harder and break through Pyukumuku and Calm Mind Clefairy, allowing it to serve as an effective stallbreaker against teams lacking Sableye. The move, however, leaves Musharna unable to harm Dark-type Pokemon such as Absol and Skuntank, which can Pursuit trap it or set up on it with Swords Dance. Leftovers offers Musharna a form of passive recovery, making it harder to wear down, allowing it easier setup opportunities, and making it need to use Rest less often. Synchronize is Musharna's ability of choice, allowing it to punish Pokemon that attempt to use Toxic on it such as Regirock and Mudsdale. Musharna is capable of setting up with Barrier against strong physical attackers such as Choice Band Stoutland and Dodrio and subsequently walling them. However, as Musharna will usually be forced to use Rest after doing this, it is better to try setting up on weaker Pokemon such as Hitmonchan or Pokemon such as Primeape and Stoutland Choice-locked into non-super effective moves in order to preserve HP. This is especially wise when strong special attackers such as Choice Specs Drampa and Aurorus are still present, as they will force Musharna out if it has not already used Calm Mind. Musharna should avoid attempting to set up on Pokemon capable of inflicting it with passive damage from Leech Seed, such as Ferroseed and Tangela, as this will make it harder for Musharna to set up and force it to use Rest more often than it would like. Musharna should also be wary of setting up on Knock Off users such as Gurdurr if the passive recovery from Leftovers will be necessary for it to set up further. As Musharna's only form of recovery is Rest, it should avoid taking unnecessary chip damage to make sure it can set up later in the match. Rest allows Musharna to break through bulkier teams reliant on Toxic stalling it with Pokemon such as Metang and Clefairy; however, you should be wary of the momentum loss created when it uses Rest, especially if it does not already have a significant number of boosts, as it will offer free turns for Pokemon such as Omastar and Zangoose to set up, break through it, and greatly threaten the rest of Musharna's team. Taunt users such as Oricorio-E, Jellicent, and Oricorio-G are capable of preventing Musharna from setting up or healing itself, and after they use Taunt, they can Toxic stall it, hit it with super effective coverage, or switch to a teammate that can break Musharna once it can't boost its defenses anymore. If Musharna has already boosted multiple times, however, it can greatly threaten them with Stored Power; therefore, it is vital that Musharna not reveal its set too early to prevent these Pokemon from immediately switching in to use Taunt on it. If Musharna is running Stored Power, it should avoid setting up when Dark-type Pokemon are present to prevent them from Pursuit trapping or setting up on it. If Musharna is running Dazzling Gleam instead, it should still be wary of Dark-type Pokemon, as it needs a Calm Mind boost to OHKO Pokemon such as Absol and Alolan Persian, while Choice Band Absol is capable of OHKOing Musharna with Knock Off if it hasn't used Barrier, and Alolan Persian is capable of OHKOing Musharna with +2 Black Hole Eclipse after it has used Calm Mind once. Musharna should therefore avoid setting up until these Pokemon have fainted or are in KO range of Dazzling Gleam, if possible. Barrier Musharna fits on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate a solid late-game wincon with a strong matchup against offensive and defensive teams alike, due to its ability to quickly boost its defenses while being able to utilize Rest to prevent itself from being Toxic stalled. Teammates that can punish Pursuit trappers and other Dark-types are essential for Musharna, especially if it is running Stored Power. Bulkier setup sweepers such as Carracosta, Gurdurr, and Torterra can punish Pokemon such as Choice Band Absol and Skuntank for locking into Pursuit as well as set up on physical Defog Skuntank sets. If Musharna is running Dazzling Gleam, teammates that can deal with opposing Calm Mind users such as Oricorio-E, Oricorio-G, and Clefairy are essential, as these Calm Mind users wall it. Regirock is capable of beating the former two and setting Stealth Rock for Musharna's team, while offensive support Alolan Sandslash can beat Clefairy and Taunt versions of Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G, the latter two of which can beat Stored Power Musharna as well, and offer Rapid Spin support and assistance against hail teams. Strong physical wallbreakers such as Stoutland are capable of considerably weakening the opposing team so that Musharna has an easier time sweeping late-game. If Musharna is running Dazzling Gleam, other teammates that can break stall teams are helpful, as it will be unable to break through Pokemon such as Pyukumuku, Audino, and Articuno. Taunt Oricorio-E provides a Fighting-type check, which is a role Musharna can't perform well due to its lack of Moonlight, and can break through Pyukumuku. Substitute + Toxic Kangaskhan is another good option for a stallbreaker that can beat Audino, Articuno, and Carbink, although it cannot break through Pyukumuku due to Rest. Special setup sweepers such as Alolan Raichu and Turtonator can set up with Nasty Plot and Shell Smash faster than Musharna can with Calm Mind, allowing them to break through it; strong revenge killing options such as Choice Scarf Primeape and Dodrio therefore make for valuable teammates, preventing these Pokemon from sweeping the rest of Musharna's team after using it as setup fodder. Primeape can also bring Musharna in via U-turn on Pokemon such as Mudsdale, giving it opportunities to set up. Due to Musharna being shut down by Taunt users such as Qwilfish and Jellicent, Pokemon that can beat them such as Freeze-Dry Cryogonal also make for valuable partners, although Cryogonal must watch out for physical variants of Qwilfish. Cryogonal can also offer Defog or Rapid Spin support, allowing Musharna to set up more easily, while being able to beat Calm Mind variants of Oricorio-G and Oricorio-E that also annoy Musharna if running Frost Breath. Clerics such as Lanturn can allow Musharna to use Rest for emergency recovery more freely. Lanturn can also help Musharna against Oricorio-G and non-Taunt versions of Oricorio-E while being able to pivot Musharna in on Pokemon such as Clefairy and Audino. Musharna can run an offensive Trick Room set with Psychic, Dazzling Gleam and Moonlight while holding Psychium Z. This lets Musharna act as a solid wincon that can reliably set up late-game due to its good bulk while still allowing it to check threats such as Victreebel and Hitmonchan early- and mid-game due to its reliable recovery in Moonlight. An alternative EV spread of 128 HP / 192 SpA / 96 SpD / 92 Spe can be run on the Future Sight set if using a Colbur Berry, allowing Musharna to survive +2 Black Hole Eclipse from Alolan Persian, but this prevents Musharna from OHKOing Alolan Persian and lowers the chance to OHKO Absol with Dazzling Gleam. Psychic can be run over Future Sight to more immediately threaten Pokemon such as Victreebel and Qwilfish, but it lacks the breaking power that Future Sight offers when combined with other attacks. Hidden Power Fire can be run instead of Healing Wish on the Future Sight set to help break past Ferroseed and Alolan Sandslash, but the utility offered by Healing Wish is more valuable in general. Psyshock can be run on the Calm Mind set instead of Psychic, allowing Musharna to beat other Calm Mind users such as Clefairy and Oricorio-G while doing more damage to specially defensive Pokemon such as Audino. It does considerably less damage to Pokemon such as Mudsdale and Regirock, however, letting them Toxic stall Musharna more freely. Heal Bell can also be run on the Calm Mind set instead of Psychic, allowing Musharna to beat Pokemon that would otherwise beat it by Toxic stalling it, such as Audino and Metang, and allowing it to freely set up on Pokemon such as Mudsdale and Regirock. This, however, greatly reduces Musharna's offensive presence, making it unable to threaten Pokemon attempting to swap in such as Stoutland as much. Heal Bell can also be run with Normalium Z to allow Musharna to fully heal itself once while removing status at the same time and to more reliably heal itself under the effects of hail.
Musharna (SS competitive strategy): Musharna is unviable in SS ZU because it is outclassed by other Calm Mind users such as Alcremie and Galarian Rapidash due to their better abilities and defensive typing. Musharna acts as an late-game cleaner with its great bulk and access to Calm Mind, Heal Bell, and reliable recovery. It does have some use on Electric Terrain teams when it runs Electric Seed, since consuming its item can help it avoid or better take hits from strong moves like Poltergeist and Knock Off, but even then it is outclassed entirely by Uxie. However, Musharna is almost never worth using over Alcremie and Galarian Rapidash because they have better defensive typings for the tier, which allows them to run useful items like Leftovers. They also have great abilities to avoid Taunt and Encore in Alcremie's case and Toxic in Galarian Rapidash's case.
Oranguru (SM competitive strategy): While Oranguru's vast movepool, decent Special Attack, and bulk are appealing, it struggles to find its place in the tier. Its mediocre typing leaves it susceptible to Dark-types such as Skuntank and unable to reliably check Fighting-types like Hitmonchan. Its Special Attack, while decent, leaves it unable to do much prior setup, and its ability is rather situational. As an offensive Psychic-type Trick Room setter, it is outclassed by Beheeyem, which sports a better ability and Special Attack. With this set, Oranguru attempts to be a Trick Room sweeper thanks to its access to Trick Room, Nasty Plot, and decent coverage options. However, this is done better by Beheeyem, which also has access to Trick Room and Nasty Plot while sporting higher offensive presence, a better ability, a better typing, and more coverage options.
Oranguru (SS competitive strategy): Despite certain unique traits it possesses like its Normal / Psychic typing and its decent bulk, Oranguru finds itself outclassed by other setup Psychic-types like Jynx, Uxie, and Galarian Rapidash, due to these Pokemon having better traits such as a higher Speed stat or more immediate power. Oranguru is able to make use of its decent defensive stats thanks to Substitute, which can protect it from status, letting it set up more freely with Nasty Plot. Unfortunately, Oranguru's low Speed and initial power, combined with the lack of reliable recovery, mean that it can be stopped easily before inflicting too much damage. It is also outclassed by other Psychic-type setup users like Jynx, Galarian Rapidash, and Uxie, which are either faster, have reliable recovery, or have more initial power.
Bouffalant (XY competitive strategy): With excellent raw power and two great STAB moves in Return and Head Charge, Bouffalant is a unique Normal-type Pokemon in PU. Bouffalant's access to Earthquake lets it hit many Normal-resistant Pokemon, such as Metang and Probopass, hard, and its great bulk allows it to check a variety of weaker attackers and Pursuit trap several threats. In addition, its access to Swords Dance enables it to break through most physical walls of the tier. Bouffalant's most useful ability, Sap Sipper, allows it to absorb Grass-type moves, particularly Sleep Powder, and Reckless is another option to give Head Charge insane power. Despite Bouffalant's bulk, its low Speed severely hinders it against offensive teams, and its lack of resistances and useful immunities apart from Grass means it has to rely on its raw bulk to take hits from most attackers. In addition, Bouffalant is stopped cold by the tier's most common Ghost-types, Misdreavus and Gourgeist-XL. Competition from other Normal-types makes it optimal on only certain teams; other Normal-types such as Stoutland and Dodrio are faster and don't struggle as much with Ghost-types. Bouffalant can use Substitute to gain free turns against many common defensive Pokemon such as Clefairy. Swords Dance allows Bouffalant to capitalize on a free Substitute when facing these defensive Pokemon and prevents them from stalling it out. Return and Earthquake provide Bouffalant with neutral coverage against the entire tier with the exception of Misdreavus, Gourgeist-XL, and Solrock. Bouffalant needs 124 Speed EVs to outspeed uninvested base 70 Speed Pokemon, allowing it to use Substitute before opposing Politoed and Solrock can inflict an unwanted status on it, though be weary that those Pokemon may run Speed creep. Maximum investment in HP allows Bouffalant to set up Substitute more easily against defensive Pokemon. Running 136 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature provides Bouffalant with a useful increase in Attack. A bulkier spread can be useful in order for Bouffalant to take on special attackers more easily. Moving all of the Attack EVs to Special Defense and using a Careful nature is also an option to further increase Bouffalant's special bulk. Leftovers replenishes Bouffalant's HP as it sets up, letting it accumulate more boosts or survive an attack from a potential revenge killer. Sap Sipper allows Bouffalant to check or set up on a wider range of threats, including Jumpluff and Tangela; however, Soundproof is an option to prevent sound-based moves from Pokemon like Chatot from revenge killing Bouffalant behind a Substitute. Swords Dance Bouffalant fares well against defensive teams, setting up on a huge number of defensive Pokemon; Roselia, Clefairy, Stunfisk, Tangela, and Probopass are all setup fodder for Bouffalant. Bouffalant can be brought in mid-game to set up against these Pokemon and do heavy damage to the opposing team. Swords Dance Bouffalant fits well on balanced and bulky offensive teams as a way to break down defensive teams and cores in order for its faster teammates to clean up. For example, Pokemon such as Ninjask and Choice Scarf Dodrio love having physical walls weakened in order to sweep more easily. Misdreavus completely walls this set, so teammates such as Simisear, and Monferno are necessary to help break through it. Bouffalant also struggles with Vullaby and appreciates the support of Pokemon such as Mr. Mime to pressure it. Stealth Rock support from the likes of Relicanth, Gabite, and Golem is needed, and Bouffalant can check the Grass-types and some of the Water-types that threaten these Pokemon. Toxic Spikes from Roselia or Venipede put huge pressure on the switches that Bouffalant forces, particularly helping to put offensive teams on a timer and giving it an easier time breaking through Gourgeist-XL. In addition, Roselia can absorb Toxic Spikes on its own side of the field so that Bouffalant can avoid the status. Return is a powerful, reliable STAB move, and Earthquake provides good coverage alongside it, hitting most Rock- and Steel-types as well as Stunfisk for super effective damage. Pursuit forces damage onto many offensive threats that Bouffalant checks, such as Floatzel and Electrode, and is especially useful to break Kadabra's Focus Sash. Facade means Bouffalant is no longer useless if its burnt, helping it check Pokemon such as Rotom-f. Head Charge can be used over Return as a more powerful STAB move, but the recoil damage is costly, especially if Bouffalant carries Assault Vest. 252 Attack EVs and an Adamant nature are used to maximize Bouffalant's Attack, granting it key KOs after Stealth Rock damage on targets such as Floatzel and Jumpluff. 252 HP EVs maximize Bouffalant's overall bulk, allowing it to take hits from these attackers more easily. 84 Speed EVs can be taken from HP to allow Bouffalant to outspeed uninvested base 65 Speed foes such as Roselia; 124 EVs can be transferred from HP to Speed to outspeed uninvested base 70 Pokemon, but this significantly decreases Bouffalant's bulk and gives opposing attackers an easier time beating it. Assault Vest increases Bouffalant's Special Defense significantly, allowing it to eat up hits from powerful special attackers such as Choice Specs Floatzel and +2 Gorebyss. Sap Sipper is the preferred ability to absorb threatening moves such as Sleep Powder from Jumpluff and Leaf Blade from Leafeon. Soundproof can be used as a surefire stop to Chatot. Tank Bouffalant fits well on bulky offensive teams that need a pivot into special attackers such as Floatzel and Raichu. Bouffalant can easily switch into many frail attackers and trap them with Pursuit; breaking Kadabra's Focus Sash can be extremely helpful in allowing a teammate such as Gorebyss to sweep. It should spam Return against offensive teams when there's no need to trap a target. Bouffalant can easily pivot into most Grass-types with Sap Sipper and act as a sleep absorber. Bulky Stealth Rock setters such as Stunfisk and Solrock pair well with Bouffalant, providing a physically defensive backbone that is particularly useful for checking Monferno, as well as providing entry hazard support. Teammates such as Monferno can switch into Misdreavus and Gourgeist-S, which Bouffalant cannot touch. Bouffalant needs support from wallbreakers such as Life Orb Simipour in order to break through sturdy physical walls such as Vullaby. Because Bouffalant is easily worn down against more offensive teams, faster teammates such as Electrode and Choice Scarf users can help alleviate this weakness. Entry hazard removal from teammates such as Vibrava and Swanna is appreciated for the same reason. Head Charge is an enormously powerful STAB move that 2HKOes everything that doesn't resist it. Earthquake provides super effective coverage on most Rock- and Steel-types. Megahorn hits Solrock super effectively and is Bouffalant's strongest attack against Tangela and Gourgeist-XL, though Head Charge KOes other Psychic-types. Pursuit can be useful to trap some frailer threats and especially to break Kadabra's Focus Sash. Stone Edge is Bouffalant's strongest hit against Misdreavus, 2HKOing offensive variants. Return can be used, but it is noticeably weaker than Head Charge and Pokemon like Stoutland and Dodrio would better take on the role of a Normal-type wallbreaker; Bouffalant cannot 2HKO Vullaby or Stunfisk with Return. The EVs maximize Bouffalant's Attack and Speed, while Choice Band further boosts Bouffalant's power to terrifying levels. When used with Reckless, Bouffalant's Head Charge is capable of doing massive damage to any non-Ghost-type target. An Adamant nature is preferred to maximize Bouffalant's damage output; for example, with an Adamant nature, Bouffalant can OHKO Audino after one round of Stealth Rock damage. However, a Jolly nature can be used to guarantee outspeeding foes such as Adamant Pawniard and offensive Roselia. Bouffalant can use its enormous power early- to mid-game to break through common defensive Pokemon, clearing the way for a faster but weaker teammate to sweep. Bouffalant should be spamming its insanely powerful Head Charge most of the time, though it can use a coverage move to nail predicted switch-ins such as Golem, Solrock, and Probopass. It can switch in freely against many defensive Pokemon, especially Grass-types, as the threat of Sap Sipper can prevent them from using Grass-type moves. Faster teammates such as Ninjask and setup sweepers such as Dragon Dance Fraxure both appreciate Bouffalant's ability to force damage onto an opposing team's defensive core. Bouffalant works well on hyper offensive teams, so entry hazard support from leads such as Golem works well with it. Sticky Web support from Leavanny is useful, slowing down would-be revenge killers such as Stoutland. Teammates to switch into Ghost-types alleviate the pressure that they put on Bouffalant; Simisear and Monferno can switch into the common Will-O-Wisp freely, while Murkrow and Pawniard can trap them with Pursuit. Monferno and Combusken can also KO Rock- and Steel-types so that Bouffalant can spam Head Charge more freely. Superpower on non-Choice Band variants is an option to guarantee an OHKO on Pawniard, but it provides nothing outside of that, and the Attack and Defense drops make it an unattractive option. Wild Charge can be used to OHKO Pelipper. Sap Sipper on Choice Band variants can allow Bouffalant to gain more free opportunities to switch in, though it can easily bluff Sap Sipper while retaining the power of Reckless Head Charge. Stone Edge on the Swords Dance set can be used over Earthquake to hit Misdreavus, but Bouffalant can no longer touch Steel-types or Golem. Taunt and Toxic can wear down Pokemon such as Vullaby, but most defensive Pokemon are already beaten by Substitute + Swords Dance. Finally, a set of Return / Earthquake / Rest / Sleep Talk is an option to increase Bouffalant's longevity.
Bouffalant (SM competitive strategy): Bouffalant finds a home in the ZU metagame thanks to its decent movepool, above-average bulk, excellent Attack stat, and desirable abilities in Sap Sipper and Reckless. Its main niche is to be a bulky Normal-type setup sweeper with Swords Dance. Sap Sipper is by far its best ability, letting in come in on the Grass-types of the tier like Leafeon to get an Attack boost and become even more dangerous. Alternatively, if Bouffalant is running Reckless, it can punch big holes in the opposing team with STAB Head Charge. With its powerful STAB moves, as well as its coverage moves like Earthquake and Pursuit, Bouffalant can be difficult to switch into or pivot on. While Komala does outclass Bouffalant as a Normal-type wallbreaker thanks to its immunity to status, better Attack stat, and access to Rapid Spin, if a team is lacking bulk, Bouffalant is a better pick over Komala as well as Kecleon. Bouffalant can also utilize a Choice Band very well, but Komala typically does this better as well. The same can be said for an Assault Vest set, which Komala and Kecleon also can use better thanks to their respective abilities in Comatose and Protean as well as their above-average Special Defense stats. Bouffalant's lack of Knock Off worsens its matchup against Bronzor as well; Komala not only learns Knock Off, but also possesses higher Speed and a pivoting move, making it a better Bronzor check. At a paltry base 55 Speed, Bouffalant gets outsped by most of the tier, and despite its decent bulk, it still gets worn down easily by common wallbreakers like Silvally-Fighting, Electivire, and Pinsir. Swords Dance, in tandem with Substitute and Toxic, is what allows Bouffalant to function as a stallbreaker and break through tanks like Lickilicky and Golem. Alternatively, Earthquake can be run in its place to hit Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types, but Bouffalant loses out on the much-wanted Attack boost and the ability to wallbreak or sweep teams. Toxic is a way to punish switch-ins that would otherwise wall Bouffalant such as Gourgeist-XL, Golem, Crustle, and Pyukumuku. Lastly, Substitute lets Bouffalant capitalize on potential switches made by the opponent and avoid a potential burn from Gourgeist-XL or a Toxic from Lickilicky or Bronzor. 176 Speed EVs let Bouffalant outspeed base 45 Speed Pokemon like Adamant Golem. 84 Attack EVs and an Adamant nature maximize Bouffalant's Attack while the rest of the EVs goes into HP for added bulk. Leftovers gives Bouffalant that much-needed passive recovery to help maintain its longevity. As the name suggests, this set's goal is to deal with stall, and because of this, keeping Bouffalant behind its Substitute is key. Getting badly poisoned or burned before using Substitute will ruin any chance Bouffalant has of doing its job. For this reason, switching into Pokemon like Pyukumuku and Gourgeist-XL is a bad idea. Utilizing Toxic is important in wearing the opposing team down; multiple Pokemon in the tier can wall Bouffalant completely or set up on it like Gourgeist and Crustle, and Toxic can potentially put a stop to those plans and make it easier for Bouffalant's teammates to take them on. If Bouffalant is behind a Substitute, the opposing team will want to get rid of it quickly before Bouffalant starts setting up and dealing damage. As a stallbreaker, Bouffalant can break a balance team and play as a tank if Substitute isn't needed. Most of the time, Swords Dance should be used behind a Substitute or when all Ghost-types are gone. Bronzor is a huge issue with this variant of Bouffalant, since it walls everything Bouffalant throws at it. However, Bronzor does require high damage rolls on its Psywave to break Bouffalant's Substitute to prevent a Swords Dance boost. Having a Fire- or Dark-type like Simisear or Pawniard helps greatly. As mentioned before, Gourgeist-XL is also a problem; in addition to Pawniard helping here, other Pokemon like Combusken and Swanna make for great partners for this set. A Pokemon that can deal with Steel-types like Bronzor and Mawile gives Bouffalant an easier time; Alolan Golem is a prime example thanks to its Magnet Pull ability. Toxic Spikes gives Bouffalant trouble, so a reliable entry hazard remover is critical. These partners include Silvally-Fighting, Silvally-Water, and Altaria for Defog and Sandslash for Rapid Spin. Since poison is an issue, bringing in a Poison- or Steel-type to absorb any move that can Poison, particularly Toxic, will relieve Bouffalant of a lot of pressure. Good teammates that can do this include Muk, Mareanie, and Bronzor. Teammates that can threaten and dispose of Ghost-types work very with Bouffalant, such as Pawniard. Since entry hazards wear down the opposing team, bring teammates able to set them do just that; Mareanie works well here thanks to its access to Toxic Spikes. Return is a nice STAB move that hits most of the meta for decent damage. Earthquake allows Bouffalant to hit the Rock- and Steel-types that Return won't like Golem and Metang. Facade is a nice move to fall back on if Bouffalant becomes crippled with status. Bouffalant can trap Pokemon like Beheeyem and Kadabra with Pursuit to remove their ability to deal serious damage. It also traps pivots that don't like being worn down and can't OHKO Bouffalant like Electivire and Chatot. Assault Vest allows Bouffalant to tank attacks from powerful specially offensive threats, like Simisear and Exeggutor. Max EVs in HP and Attack along with an Adamant nature give Bouffalant the most bulk it can and hit as hard as it can. Since this set aims to utilize Bouffalant's Special Defense, it has to be wary of strong physical wallbreakers. Bouffalant can still function as a physical tank with this set and hits the physically frail threats that can't hit it back hard such as Kadabra, Mr. Mime, and Simisear. Also, since Bouffalant has no recovery, is slow, and wants to conserve its HP, bringing it in safely via a slow U-turn or Volt Switch is crucial. Bouffalant serves as a specially defensive pivot, and as such, its job involves switching it into special attackers and possibly retaliating. It shouldn't be switching into special attackers that could be running Focus Blast like Combusken, however. It can switch directly into Grass-types like Bellossom to get a Sap Sipper boost, but it should avoid Leafeon, which can carry Knock Off. Since Bouffalant is going to be trying to take special attacks, physical attacks will be an issue, especially Fighting-type moves; having a Psychic- or Fairy-type on the team like Beheeyem or Granbull relieves Bouffalant of some of that stress. Since Sap Sipper allows Bouffalant to deal with Grass-types more easily, partners that appreciate them gone such as Golem, Basculin, and Electivire work well with it. A strong special wallbreaker such as Simipour or Servine to go with Bouffalant is critical, since physically bulky Pokemon will give it a hard time. Slow pivots like Mareanie and Rotom-S can bring in Bouffalant without it taking damage. Entry hazard setters like Golem, Crustle, and Mawile make for great partners to give Bouffalant an easier time taking down opposing Pokemon. Conversely, entry hazard removers also help to keep Bouffalant's HP up and avoid poison from Toxic Spikes. Possible spinners include Sandslash, while potential Defoggers include Altaria and Rotom-F. Partners that don't have the best special bulk appreciate Bouffalant coming in to take those special attacks. Ideal partners are Gourgeist-XL, Metang, and Pinsir; Gourgeist-XL in particular works well thanks to ability to deal with physically attackers like Golem and Komala. Head Charge is a great STAB move here that can OHKO Lickilicky after Stealth Rock damage. Earthquake lets Bouffalant hit the Rock- and Steel-types of the tier, most notably 2HKOing both Golem and Metang and OHKOing Probopass and Pawniard. Toxic is a nice option to poison certain Pokemon that Bouffalant cannot normally hit very well at all like Gourgeist-XL and Dusclops. Facade hits harder than Head Charge if Bouffalant is crippled with status and is a nice move to spam once the Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types are gone from the opposing team. Pursuit traps frail Pokemon that are susceptible to Dark-type moves like Beheeyem, Grumpig, and Kadabra and also hits pivots like Volt Switch Electivire and U-turn Silvally-Water, both of which cannot OHKO Bouffalant. Choice Band Bouffalant's main role is to simply deal damage. Ghost-types like Gourgeist-XL and Dusclops are a problem when it comes to spamming STAB Head Charge or Facade; this is where Toxic comes into play. Once opposing Ghost-types are poisoned, Bouffalant can switch out to preserve its status by avoiding a burn or Toxic poison. Grass-types like Leafeon and Jumpluff don't want to give Sap Sipper Bouffalant that extra Attack boost, so switching into these Pokemon could potentially help Bouffalant. However, the former two typically carry Knock Off and may end up getting rid of Bouffalant's Choice Band. Bringing Bouffalant in from a slow U-turn or Volt Switch is always a good idea to maintain its longevity and avoid any unwanted burns from the aforementioned Ghost-types and Scald users like Mareanie and Swanna. Since Bouffalant is a wallbreaker, if the opposing team has a Ghost-type on it, it will likely switch it into Bouffalant every time, so it is important to utilize Toxic in those situations until they're gone. Reckless-boosted Head Charge's heavy recoil damage should always be taken into account; getting worn down is always going to be a problem for Bouffalant, since it's usually getting hit before it can deliver a hit itself. While this moveset covers the tier pretty well, it doesn't cover a few threats. Gourgeist-XL, for example, is a huge problem for Bouffalant, and having a specially attacking partner like Zebstrika or Combusken helps it out. Bronzor is also a problem, so having a Dark-, Ghost-, or Fire-type around to deal with it certainly helps; options include Pawniard, Dusknoir, and Simisear. Since Bouffalant is going to want to be switched in safely every single time, having a slow U-turn or Volt Switch user like bulky Silvally-Poison or Probopass is a must. Since Bouffalant will be locked into a move, usually Head Charge or Facade, setup sweepers like Crustle and Pawniard can come in for free and take advantage of it. Partners that can deal with these Pokemon include Pyukumuku and Silvally-Fighting. Having a partner to deal with Rock- and Steel-types like Golem, Crustle, Bronzor, and Mawile make Bouffalant's job easier; such partners include Floatzel, Electivire, and Combusken. Entry hazard setters like Crustle and Mareanie also give Bouffalant an easier time by wearing down the opposing team. Hazard control from Pokemon like Mareanie, Sandslash, and Silvally-Poison can help keep Bouffalant around longer. Toxic Spikes in particular will wear down Bouffalant quickly, especially when combined with Head Charge's recoil damage.
Bouffalant (SS competitive strategy): Bouffalant finds its niche in ZU as a bulky wallbreaker with a great ability in Sap Sipper. Sap Sipper allows Bouffalant to prey on ZU's Grass-types, such as the common blanket physical wall Tangela, using them as setup fodder with Substitute and Swords Dance. In addition, Bouffalant checks offensive Grass-type threats in Thwackey and Gourgeist-S. Head Charge is Bouffalant's standard STAB move thanks to its high power. Facade is sometimes used over Substitute and takes advantage of status. This then frees up Close Combat as a coverage option, which hits Pokemon that resist Bouffalant's STAB move such as Rhydon, Klingklang, and Coalossal. Throat Chop is used to hit Ghost-types like Rotom, Gourgeist formes, and Trevenant. The EV spread allows Bouffalant to outspeed uninvested Tangela and Alcremie whilst increasing bulk. Bouffalant fits well on balance and bulky offense teams, helping break down defensive teams that rely on passive Pokemon to deal damage. Thwackey is a great partner for Bouffalant, as it can lure in Tangela before pivoting out with U-turn, bring in Bouffalant safely, and provide additional passive recovery on top of Leftovers. Kabutops and Morpeko are other pivots that can force Grass-types in. Strong special attackers such as Basculin, Thievul, and Appletun can help break through other physically bulky Pokemon such as Rhydon, Qwilfish, and Miltank. Uxie and Qwillfish can compress the roles of entry hazard setter and switch-in to Fighting-type attacks that threaten Bouffalant. Dark-type Pokemon such as Silvally-Dark and Skuntank can help pressure Ghost-types like Rotom and Sableye, which are immune to Bouffalant's STAB moves. Lastly, late-game cleaners such as Choice Scarf Sawk, Thwackey, and Klinklang can benefit from Bouffalant's wallbreaking abilities. A Choice Band set provides Bouffalant with immediate wallbreaking power and also has the element of surprise. Reckless is used to further increase the power of Head Charge. However, this loses the niche of Grass immunity and faces heavy competition from weaker yet more versatile Normal-types in Kangaskhan and Silvally.
Dedenne (XY competitive strategy): Dedenne is a poor Pokemon in the PU metagame and is not worth using over other Electric-types such as Raichu and Zebstrika, which have better Speed, more power, and better coverage. Although Dedenne has Fairy as its secondary typing, it lacks a special Fairy-type STAB move and lacks the bulk to utilize any resistances it provides. Its coverage consists of an Electric-type STAB move, Grass Knot, and Hidden Power, which means it struggles to get past Pokemon that resist Electric such as Stunfisk and Roselia. The only niche Dedenne has lies in its ability, Cheek Pouch; however, most Pokemon can OHKO or 2HKO it, meaning that the HP recovery is often useless. Using Substitute in conjunction with Petaya Berry allows Dedenne to reliably obtain a Special Attack boost in order to try damaging the opposing team. Recycle allows Dedenne to repeat its shenanigans multiple times due to Cheek Pouch recovery. Thunderbolt is its strongest STAB move, and Grass Knot is its best coverage move, hitting certain Electric-resistant Pokemon such as Golem. Dedenne does not get much use from investment in bulk, whereas with Speed investment and a Timid nature it can outspeed Pokemon such as Dodrio, and Special Attack investment allows it to deal some damage. Cheek Pouch along with Petaya Berry lets it recover health while boosting its Special Attack. Dedenne's main aim is to continuously boost its Special Attack while remaining at a high enough HP to possibly take a hit, so it should try to set up Substitutes on Pokemon it forces out, such as Prinplup, Dodrio, and Relicanth. Dedenne should keep using Substitute until its Petaya Berry activates, and from there it should either use Recycle to get more boosts or attack if it is threatened by its foe. Often one Petaya Berry boost is enough to threaten weakened teams, so Dedenne would rather be behind a Substitute than keep boosting. It should be wary against Roselia, which can use Dedenne as Spikes fodder without consequence, so in that position it would rather switch out even if it is behind a Substitute. Dedenne works best on offensive teams that can pressure Pokemon that wall it and weaken the opponent's team for Dedenne to get KOs. Water- and Grass-type Pokemon such as Floatzel and Roselia can pressure Ground-types with double switches, and the latter can also set up Spikes to help pressure most of Dedenne's switch-ins. Fire- and Flying-types such as Rapidash and Dodrio pressure Grass-type Pokemon, while Dedenne can check Water-types for the former. Ground-types such as Stunfisk and Camerupt can check Electric-types, which can switch in on Dedenne for free, while also setting up Stealth Rock. Toxic Spikes from Pokemon such as Roselia can help wear down foes while Dedenne stalls with Substitute and Recycle. Dedenne has an alright support movepool including Nuzzle and Super Fang; however, it lacks the bulk to use them effectively. Eerie Impulse and Charm can make up for Dedenne's poor bulk by lowering the foe's offensive stats, but that makes Dedenne passive and Substitute fodder. Hidden Power Ice is Dedenne's only other offensive option, and it can hit Grass-types such as Jumpluff as well as some Ground-types, but most targets can take several hits from it.
Dedenne (SM competitive strategy): Dedenne's sparse movepool and poor stats bar Speed leave it totally outclassed by other Electric-types such as Alolan Raichu, Eelektross, and Rotom-F. To make matters worse, Dedenne must rely on the unremarkable combination of Petaya Berry + Recycle to accumulate Special Attack boosts, which is a tedious process made especially difficult to pull off in succession given Dedenne's terrible bulk and lack of payoff due to it still being weak even after boosts. Alolan Raichu is a far more consistent boosting sweeper thanks to its superior offensive stats alongside access to Nasty Plot and moves such as Focus Blast and STAB Psyshock, whereas other Electric-types such as Rotom-F and Eelektross also boast far better coverage options. Using Substitute, Recycle, Petaya Berry, and Cheek Pouch, Dedenne can very slowly start gathering up Special Attack boosts and attempt to perform a sweep. However, despite Dedenne's high Speed and a defensive typing that grants it a neat set of resistances to priority moves like Sucker Punch and Mach Punch, Dedenne's pitiful stats means it is revenge killed by a plethora of faster threats regardless and poses little of a threat even with boosts. Dedenne lacks any other notable niche over Alolan Raichu, giving the latter a more clear-cut role as a setup sweeper.
Dedenne (SS competitive strategy): Dedenne is not viable in SS ZU due to it being entirely outclassed by the top Pokemon in the tier, Rotom, which has a better movepool, ability, secondary typing, and Special Attack stat. Dedenne attempts to work as an offensive pivot with its fast Speed stat and access to Volt Switch. Unfortunately for Dedenne, it is outclassed by one of the tier's top Pokemon, Rotom, which does its job much better with its deeper movepool, better Special Attack, and its Ghost typing and Levitate providing it with a bunch of immunities. Even Manectric, a mid-tier Pokemon, also has better qualities with its better Special Attack and Speed, access to Overheat to hit Grass-types, and a useful ability in Lightning Rod.
Frosmoth (SS competitive strategy): Despite competition from Ribombee, with its superior typing and speed, as a Bug-type sweeper, Frosmoth makes for a niche yet threatening setup sweeper thanks to Quiver Dance and potent offensive coverage. Ice Scales also gives it many setup opportunities against special attackers such as Mesprit and Whimsicott, which differentiates it from Ribombee. Frosmoth's underwhelming Speed and physical bulk, mediocre defensive typing, and inability to hit Steel-types for significant damage render it easy to revenge kill and a liability in certain matchups. Substitute allows Frosmoth to avoid status conditions from Pokemon like Lanturn while making it harder to revenge kill. Giga Drain grants Frosmoth with recovery and targets Water-types like Jellicent, as well as dealing super effective damage to Rock-types like Regirock and Gigalith. Frosmoth greatly appreciates partners that can wear down the Steel-types it struggles to get past; Choice Specs Whimsicott and Mesprit make for great options, and they can both also cripple Pokemon like specially defensive Aggron and Togedemaru by using Switcheroo and Trick, respectively. Due to its lackluster Speed tier, Frosmoth finds itself easily revenge killed by threats like Choice Scarf Togedemaru; teammates like Silvally-Ghost and Coil Sandaconda can use the aforementioned threats that Frosmoth invites in as setup fodder. Charizard can wear down Pokemon like Gigalith with Toxic and can threaten Steel-types like defensive Togedemaru.
Frosmoth (SV competitive strategy): Quiver Dance Frosmoth is an incredibly threatening setup sweeper thanks to its ability to do massive damage in matchups that Bug struggles with such as Flying and Dragon as well as find opportunities to set up on numerous special attackers like Choice Specs Iron Valiant and Spectrier thanks to Ice Scales. Substitute allows Frosmoth to take advantage of special attackers like those aforementioned as well as dodge status from Pokemon such as Galarian Weezing that cannot break Frosmoth's Substitute. Giga Drain allows Frosmoth to hit troublesome Water-types like Empoleon that can otherwise take it on while allowing it to run away with the Ground matchup by annihilating Quagsire and Mamoswine after a Quiver Dance boost. Ice Beam easily muscles past Ground-, Flying-, and Dragon-types like Gliscor, Dragonite, and Raging Bolt that otherwise pose problems for Bug teams. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Frosmoth to avoid its debilitating Stealth Rock weakness while giving it more opportunities to set up thanks to avoiding Toxic Spikes. Frosmoth is a dangerous setup sweeper on Ice teams when given snow and Aurora Veil support. Quiver Dance allows Frosmoth to be a dangerous wincon when given free turns against passive walls like Amoonguss. Hurricane allows Frosmoth to sweep through Fighting teams after two Quiver Dance boosts while allowing it threaten Fire-types such as Volcarona. Substitute can be used instead to avoid status conditions and easily set up against more passive walls such as Amoonguss and Rotom-W. Giga Drain provides Frosmoth with longevity in sweeping, deals with bulky Water-types like Primarina and Gastrodon, and threatens troublesome Rock teams. Frosmoth's ability to deal large amounts of damage to physical walls like Garganacl and Skarmory is very important to ease the job of other setup sweepers like Weavile and Cloyster. A Timid nature is preferred, as it allows Frosmoth to outspeed threats such as Cinderace, Ogerpon formes, and Iron Valiant after a Quiver Dance. A Modest nature can be used to break past threats such as Empoleon and Alolan Muk Frosmoth needs snow and Aurora Veil support in order to easily set up on threats like Primarina and Archaludon. Therefore, Alolan Ninetales makes an excellent teammate. Alolan Ninetales can also use Encore to provide Frosmoth with free switch-in opportunities. Frosmoth tends to be slow even after a Quiver Dance boost due to its low initial Speed stat. At +1, it is easily revenge killed by Choice Scarf Iron Boulder, Choice Scarf Roaring Moon, and Choice Scarf Sneasler, so switch-ins to these threats such as Avalugg and Mamoswine are appreciated. Speed control options such as Slush Rush Alolan Sandslash and Thunder Wave Froslass support Frosmoth excellently. Froslass provides Spikes support to chip down checks such as Hisuian Goodra and Galarian Slowking. Sandslash can deal with Hatterene and Articuno for Frosmoth while clearing entry hazards with Rapid Spin, should Frosmoth's Heavy-Duty Boots get Knocked Off. Frosmoth can struggle to break through Haze Toxapex and Articuno, so Kyurem and Weavile make excellent teammates. Frosmoth and Kyurem can work together to overwhelm their shared checks such as Corviknight and Galarian Slowking. Weavile is able to pressure the Fire-types Frosmoth can't break past such as Rotom-H and Heatran with Knock Off and Mamoswine's Stealth Rock support. Cloyster is also a great ally, as it can shred through Fire teams with Rock Blast after a Shell Smash, notably dealing with Ceruledge, which otherwise is extremely difficult to face. Frosmoth can invest 208 EVs into Defense to prevent Corviknight's Iron Head from breaking Substitute under snow and Aurora Veil. However, Frosmoth needs 252 Special Attack EVs to OHKO Skarmory after Stealth Rock if it uses a Timid nature so it doesn't get phazed by Whirlwind.
Appletun (SS competitive strategy): Appletun is a Choice Specs wallbreaker that cleanly OHKOes a great spectrum of the metagame, including fast Miltank, Tangela, Rhydon, and Gurdurr. Dragon Pulse is a no-drawback alternative to Draco Meteor that allows Appletun to still nail switch-ins without being locked into the momentum-draining Draco Meteor long-term. Recover gives Appletun invaluable longevity at the cost of momentum; it also works well versus Knock Off users like Tangela and Thwackey. Thick Fat is the ability of choice, allowing Appletun to take weak Ice-type moves like Silvally's Ice Beam while assisting it in dealing with Fire-type attackers like Rapidash and Ninetales more easily. Choice Specs Appletun puts out phenomenal offensive pressure and can switch into Pokemon that it resists common attacks from with ease such as Rhydon, Galarian Stunfisk, Kabutops, Palossand, and Raichu. VoltTurn users like the Silvally formes, Rotom, and Uxie all make for useful teammates, creating momentum and giving Appletun easy entry onto the field. Physical wallbreakers like Klinklang, Sawk, and Rhydon that can threaten the special walls Appletun struggles with like Articuno and Clefairy are also invaluable for its team. In turn, Appletun threatens out physically defensive staples like Palossand, Rhydon, Miltank, and Altaria. Physically Defensive Appletun is an excellent physical wall; thanks to its solid bulk, unusual typing, and Thick Fat, it has a unique set of resistances that allows it to absorb hits from the likes of Rhydon, Gourgeist, Alolan Dugtrio, Kabutops, and standard Rapidash. Its Eject Pack also allows it to act as a one-time pivot, hitting hard with Draco Meteor, especially if Apple Acid is used beforehand, as it pivots out. Body Press allows Appletun to beat Steel-types like Klinklang and Pawniard while Leech Seed is useful for allowing it to sustain through physical variants of Silvally, Sawk, defensive Qwilfish, and Kangaskhan. The given EV spread lets Appletun outspeed uninvested Rhydon and Gurdurr. Special walls like Galarian Stunfisk, Miltank, and Articuno make for great partners, covering for each other's weaknesses. Physical wallbreakers like Klinklang, Sawk, and Rhydon and special wallbreakers like Skuntank, Thievul, and Jynx appreciate being able to come in through Draco Meteor to continue to apply offensive pressure. Rotom, Skuntank, Silvally-Poison, and Morpeko all appreciate Appletun's ability to put pressure on common Ground-types, while Appletun appreciates both the momentum they generate and the pressure they put on opposing Fairy- and Ice-types. Lastly, Appletun is greatly appreciated as a Knock Off absorber by Eviolite users like Gurdurr and Rhydon and Heavy-Duty Boots users like Rapidash, Articuno, and Altaria. Maximum Speed investment allows Specs Appletun to outspeed Tangela and Speed tie the mirror at worst. 160 Speed EVs allows Appletun to outspeed uninvested Piloswine, while the given investment of 84 Speed EVs on the defensive set allows Appletun to outspeed uninvested Rhydon and Gurdurr. Often times lowering Speed investment isn't worth it on the Choice Specs set, though it can be worth considering on the defensive set. Appletun can opt for Leftovers over Eject Pack on its defensive set, though it becomes even more of a momentum sink and loses its ability to absorb Knock Off as easily; in exchange, it becomes a sturdier check against the physical Pokemon it's tasked to handle. In a similar vein, Appletun can opt to forgo Draco Meteor for Iron Defense to improve its Klinklang matchup further, power up Body Press, and allow it to act as a sturdier physical wall, though the loss of Draco Meteor is significant. Choice Specs Appletun can opt for Giga Drain as a fourth move over Recover, giving Appletun health while still firing off powerful Grass-type STAB attacks. However, this can be easily punished by Grass-resistant switch-ins, making it a less consistent choice compared to the former two options. Leech Seed is Choice Specs Appletun's only way to hit Shedinja and is worth considering over Recover as a result, though Shedinja is uncommon at best within the metagame.
Pecharunt (SV competitive strategy): Pecharunt's insanely high Defense, Ghost typing, and wide movepool make it a an excellent defensive pivot and support Pokemon for offensive teams. Malignant Chain is a powerful STAB move that, more importantly, can spread status, particularly against switch-ins like Ting-Lu and setup sweepers like Zamazenta and Dragonite, which Pecharunt can take advantage of with its Poison Puppeteer. Foul Play is an option to punish setup sweepers like Dragonite, Kyurem, and Terastallized Ogerpon-W, though this should only be used with Tera Dark. Shadow Ball gives it a consistent Ghost-type STAB move that deal more damage to Pokemon immune to poison like Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking. Hex can be used over Shadow Ball, complementing its ability to spread poison. Parting Shot keeps up momentum for the team and is a great way to safely bring in its teammates, especially by weakening the opposition beforehand. Heavy-Duty Boots is a solid item choice to block residual damage from entry hazards that Pecharunt would have otherwise been susceptible to as it pivots in and out, particularly preferred on teams with lack of hazard removal. Rocky Helmet lets it chip physical attackers it's supposed to check, punishing pivoting attempts from Cinderace, Ogerpon-W, and Rillaboom and improving its matchup against Zamazenta. Air Balloon is a good alternative to mitigate Pecharunt's Ground weakness, which is especially helpful for taking on Great Tusk, while providing an invaluable Spikes immunity similar to Heavy-Duty Boots. Tera Dark boosts Foul Play and completely flips most of Pecharunt's weaknesses, including Ghost, Dark, and Psychic, letting it check foes like Hisuian Samurott, Weavile, and Ceruledge and deal with Deoxys-S in a pinch. Tera Ghost removes its Ground weakness to totally spinblock Great Tusk and Iron Treads, with the added benefit of boosting its Ghost-type STAB move. Pecharunt can benefit greatly from two distinct EV spreads, with one maximizing Defense and the other Speed; a physically defensive spread allows it to take more hits from the likes of Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Ogerpon-W, running enough Speed to get the jump on Jolly Kingambit, but maximum Speed investment ensures that Pecharunt is fast enough to outspeed Great Tusk and Gholdengo as well as Speed tie opposing Pecharunt. The support provided by Pecharunt's ability to spread status and pivot to gain momentum makes it an excellent teammate for offensive teams. Pecharunt forms solid cores with Dark-type Pokemon, such as Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Darkrai; these Dark-type spam teams are extremely weak to Zamazenta, which Pecharunt can completely wall, and Iron Valiant, which Pecharunt can switch in on and threaten with Malignant Chain. On the other hand, these exact same Dark-types are threats to Pecharunt itself; having Zamazenta and Iron Valiant as teammates can help deal with them. Pecharunt's Ghost typing allows it to block Rapid Spin from opposing Great Tusk and Iron Treads, providing support for teammates like Hisuian Samurott to spread their entry hazards and keep them up throughout the game. Bulky Ground-types like Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Ting-Lu also synergize well with Pecharunt, taking advantage of its ability to block Rapid Spin to spread entry hazards of their own, and they help deal with Iron Moth, which is otherwise able to set up on Pecharunt quite easily. Pecharunt can also remove Toxic Spikes from the field, clearing the path for setup sweepers without Heavy-Duty Boots, such as Booster Energy Iron Valiant and Leftovers Zamazenta. Pecharunt struggles against some of the special attackers in the tier that can outspeed and prevent it from making any progress, such as Darkrai and Choice Scarf Gholdengo. Having powerful teammates like Iron Valiant and Kingambit can provide much needed offensive support while also taking advantage of Pecharunt's Parting Shot to switch in on foes and set up safely. Landorus-T and Iron Treads can threaten Pecharunt significantly with their Ground-type attacks, and Gliscor can use Swords Dance to outpace the damage Pecharunt could do with Hex. Running Air Balloon, having a Ground-immune teammate like Landorus-T, or pivoting to a teammate like Kyurem or Ogerpon-W, can cover for this weakness and allow it to turn the matchup around in it favor. Pecharunt is also almost completely walled by Kingambit; Zamazenta and Great Tusk are great teammates to check Kingambit, and they can both be brought in safely with Parting Shot. Pecharunt's good defensive typing, excellent physical bulk, and otherwise well-rounded stats make it a uniquely effective and highly disruptive wallbreaker with Nasty Plot. With maximum Special Attack investment, Pecharunt can 2HKO the majority of the tier with Malignant Chain, notably Zamazenta. Recover provides longevity and ensures that Pecharunt can blanket check most physical attackers throughout a game. Alternatively, Destiny Bond can be run to trade Pecharunt for a KO, which can be especially useful after Pecharunt has already served its purpose and eliminated an opposing Great Tusk or Iron Treads beforehand. Heavy-Duty Boots lets Pecharunt switch in throughout a game without getting worn down by entry hazards. Air Balloon grants Pecharunt a temporary Ground immunity, making it a good spinblocker against Great Tusk and Iron Treads without needing to Terastallize and forcing threats like Dragonite and Enamorus to pop Pecharunt's Air Balloon and tank an attack before threatening it with their Ground-type attacks. Shuca Berry can accomplish a similar goal of temporarily sponging Ground-type attacks by letting Pecharunt survive a single Headlong Rush from Great Tusk, an Earth Power from Choice Specs Kyurem and Enamorus, or even a +2 Dragonite's Earthquake before hitting these threats back very hard. Shuca Berry also lets Pecharunt bluff Heavy-Duty Boots if entry hazards are not up, letting it more easily bait in Ground-type attacks and retaliate. The last two items have the added benefit of reducing Pecharunt's damage taken by Iron Valiant's Knock Off after they are consumed, allowing Pecharunt to check it more easily. Covert Cloak is an option that lets Pecharunt set up freely on one of its greatest checks, Garganacl, while also being handy in preventing Zamazenta's repeated Crunch from overwhelming it with the drops. Tera Ghost boosts Shadow Ball's damage output, allowing Pecharunt to OHKO both Iron Treads and Great Tusk after a Nasty Plot. Tera Water grants Pecharunt a solid neutral typing to take on common threats like Great Tusk, Kingambit, Gholdengo, and Ceruledge. Tera Fighting alongside Tera Blast is a niche option to hit a majority of its checks in Kingambit, Tyranitar, Garganacl, and Ting-Lu super effectively, with the new typing granting it a helpful Dark resistance. A bulkier EV spread with maximum HP investment can be used instead; at the cost of no longer guaranteeing the OHKO on foes like bulky Gholdengo, Pecharunt, and Great Tusk after minor chip damage, Pecharunt is more adept at checking foes like Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Ogerpon-W for its team and gains more setup opportunities. Nasty Plot Pecharunt fits reasonably well on bulky offensive teams, and its best teammates greatly appreciate its defensive utility and spinblocking capabilities. Teammates that struggle with Zamazenta and Iron Valiant, such as Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Darkrai, make for strong teammates. Kingambit appreciates Pecharunt softening up walls like Iron Defense Corviknight, while Hisuian Samurott can utilize Ceaseless Edge's entry hazard support to make Pecharunt's wallbreaking capabilities even more fearsome or can itself serve as a secondary wallbreaker alongside Pecharunt. Teammates that check and force out the aforementioned Dark-types, like Enamorus, Iron Valiant, and Zamazenta itself makes for strong teammates. Iron Valiant and Zamazenta are especially useful against Kingambit, which Pecharunt struggles immensely against. Physically bulky Stealth Rock-setting Ground-types like Ting-Lu, Great Tusk, and Landorus-T are great teammates that appreciate Pecharunt's ability to keep their entry hazards up, and in return, they tend to handle opposing Ground-type attacks well. Kyurem and Ogerpon-W are strong teammates that can handle bulkier, Poison-immune threats that Pecharunt struggles to break past, such as Garganacl, Gliscor, and Clodsire. Ogerpon-W and Kyurem greatly appreciate Pecharunt's ability to handle Zamazenta and Iron Valiant in return. Lastly, while it lacks Gholdengo's coveted Defog and Mortal Spin immunities, Pecharunt is a good alternative spinblocker for Sticky Web teams since it outspeeds and greatly threatens Great Tusk, ensuring that Sticky Web remains against teams that rely on it as their only form of hazard removal.
Carracosta (XY competitive strategy): A solid typing combined with excellent physical bulk lets Carracosta check Archeops, Scyther, Normal-types, Fire-types, and various other physical attackers. Solid Rock further enhances its defensive capabilities, allowing it to take weak or non-STAB super effective moves with ease. Carracosta also boasts access to the coveted Shell Smash, the best setup move in the game, which it finds ample opportunity to use due to its aforementioned qualities. Shell Smash pairs well with Carracosta's high Attack and decent Special Attack stats, as it is able to attack with boosted physical or special hits to surprise its checks and counters. Carracosta isn't perfect, however; its low Speed stat means that it can't outspeed much of anything, and even at +2 it's not that fast. A low Special Defense stat makes Carracosta struggle to check most moderately strong special attackers. For all its advantages, its typing leaves it weak to several common types, most notably giving it an exploitable 3x weakness to Grass with Solid Rock and mild susceptibility to Fighting- and Electric-types. Carracosta also faces competition from Barbaracle as a physical Shell Smash user, as Barbaracle has important niches in its wide coverage, Tough Claws, and, most importantly, a higher Speed stat that lets it outspeed Swellow and most Choice Scarf users. Stealth Rock is one of the best moves in the game and Carracosta is one of its better setters, finding ample opportunities to set it up and having decent matchups against most spinners and Defoggers. Scald has decent power and has a high chance to burn the foe, severely crippling physical attackers and wearing down otherwise hard counters to Carracosta such as Vileplume and Torterra. Rock Slide hits from Carracosta's higher Attack stat and has solid coverage alongside Scald, and it has higher accuracy and PP than Stone Edge. It also smacks Xatu, which might want to try to bounce back Carracosta's Stealth Rock. Carracosta has a very versatile last slot. Knock Off removes items and cripples switch-ins such as Gurdurr. Toxic statuses switch-ins and helps Carracosta more quickly wear down the foe. Protect gives Carracosta a little extra HP from Leftovers, gains an extra turn for burn damage on the foe, and lets Carracosta scout Choice-locked Pokemon such as Primeape and Mesprit. Aqua Jet picks off weakened foes and Pokemon weak to it, notably allowing Carracosta to hit Double Dance Rhydon, as well as Fire-types before they can KO Carracosta with a Grass-type coverage move, but is generally very weak. Stone Edge can be used over Rock Slide, as it hits harder in general and, in particular, OHKOes Pyroar after one round of Life Orb recoil. The spread and a boosting nature make Carracosta ridiculously physically bulky, and the Special Defense investment ensures Carracosta can avoid an OHKO from Life Orb Pyroar's Hidden Power Grass. Relaxed is chosen as to not weaken Carracosta's attacking options, and Carracosta is exceedingly slow anyways. A spread of 252 HP / 92 Def / 168 SpD lets Carracosta take special attacks significantly better, specifically allowing it to take a Life Orb Pyroar's Hidden Power Grass after Stealth Rock. Solid Rock lets Carracosta take non-STAB physical super effective moves, notably Earthquake coverage, much better. Come in on the Normal-, Flying-, and Fire-types, such as Kangaskhan, Archeops, and Choice Specs Pyroar, and various other physical attackers that Carracosta walls throughout the game. Set up Stealth Rock early-game, unless the opponent has Shiftry or any other entry hazard remover that beats Carracosta, against which it's better for Carracosta to cripple them as they switch in with Toxic, Knock Off, or even a Scald burn. If the opponent has a Xatu and they are aware this is defensive Carracosta, go for Rock Slide or Scald if predicting it to switch in to bounce back Stealth Rock. Scald is Carracosta's most spammable move due to its burn chance, and should be used if the opponent is likely to send in a counter such as Vileplume and Gourgeist-XL. Knock Off and Toxic can similarly be used to cripple most common switch-ins. Use Protect when in against Choice-locked Pokemon such as Primeape and Mesprit to see which move they use, and then switch or stay in accordingly. If running Aqua Jet, Carracosta can be used as a revenge killer for Pokemon weak to the move or low on health. Due to its lack of reliable recovery, be careful switching in if Carracosta is needed for another threat, as, for example, the Fire-types it checks can severely weaken if not outright KO it with super effective coverage. A check to Grass-types is a mandatory partner for Carracosta, with Xatu, Scyther, Ice-types, Poison-types, and Fire-types all working well as partners. Garbodor or Roselia also forms an entry hazard-stacking core with Carracosta, with the former being an overall better Grass and Fighting check and the latter being a check to the Water-, Electric-, and Ground-types that trouble Carracosta. Most Grass-types make quick work of the Water-, Electric-, and Ground-types that wall or threaten Carracosta, and in return it takes on Flying- and Fire-types for them. Thanks to its access to Freeze-Dry and great special bulk, Cryogonal also serves as a solid answer to the aforementioned threats to Carracosta. Psychic-, Flying-, Poison-, and Ghost-types can check or counter Fighting-types, which can severely dent if not outright KO Carracosta with their STAB moves. Pokemon such as Klinklang and Electric-types appreciate Carracosta's ability to cripple the likes of Gastrodon and Grass-types with Toxic, Knock Off, and Scald burns in the latter case. Due to Carracosta's somewhat passive nature, it gives common sweepers a lot of setup opportunities, making answers to the likes of Malamar, Gurdurr, and Calm Mind Psychic-types, such as Scyther and Signal Beam Psychic-types, very welcome partners. Shell Smash doubles Carracosta's Speed, Attack, and Special Attack, giving it great sweeping and wallbreaking potential. Hydro Pump swamps the numerous physically bulky Pokemon in the tier, such as Weezing, Gurdurr, Garbodor, Klinklang, and other such Pokemon that would expect to take a boosted Waterfall. Stone Edge is Carracosta's main weapon against Water-types, such as Lanturn, Ludicolo, and Samurott, as well as nailing Jynx and Roselia; it is also Carracosta's strongest attack in general. Ice Beam demolishes bulky Grass-types such as Gourgeist-XL and Vileplume and is more reliable than Stone Edge to KO frailer Grass-types with. Superpower is a viable option to surprise Ferroseed and Hariyama, KOing them after a Shell Smash boost and Spikes damage, while also having enough power to beat the likes of Ludicolo at +2 and Jynx without risking a miss from Stone Edge. The Attack drop is not as much of a hindrance, as Carracosta can fall back on Hydro Pump, though the Defense drop alongside that of Shell Smash can make Carracosta more susceptible to priority attacks such as Sucker Punch and Mach Punch. Maximum Speed investment coupled with a Naive nature allows Carracosta to Speed tie with opposing positive-natured Carracosta and offensive Adamant Rhydon while also outrunning positive-natured base 110 Speed Pokemon, such as Tauros and Archeops, after a Shell Smash boost. The Naive nature is chosen because Special Defense is Carracosta's least important stat. 28 Attack EVs allow Carracosta to OHKO bulky Lanturn with +2 Stone Edge after Stealth Rock. The remaining EVs are placed into Special Attack, maximizing Carracosta's damage output. Mixed Carracosta is primarily a wallbreaker that can punch holes in defensive cores expecting a physically inclined set. It can sweep late-game if given the chance, though its lack of priority makes it ill suited at that role. Carracosta can set up on Normal-type and Flying-type attackers such as Tauros, Kangaskhan, Archeops, and Scyther, as well Pyroar Choice-locked into a Fire-type move. It can also find additional setup opportunities by bluffing Aqua Jet to force out weakened foes and Pokemon weak to Water such as Pyroar and Magmortar. However, be aware of foes that Carracosta cannot outspeed after a Shell Smash boost, such as Floatzel, Swellow, and Choice Scarf users, as they can easily stop its sweep. Mixed Carracosta can be an effective lure, as revealing only Stone Edge would not give away Carracosta's true nature as a mixed attacker. Thus, Carracosta usually finds itself easily KOing the opponent's physically defensive Pokemon with its boosted special attacks. On the other hand, revealing Hydro Pump early prompts the opponent to switch in their specially defensive Pokemon or a Pokemon resistant to Water, most of which fear a boosted Stone Edge. Note that Carracosta's lack of priority means it should try to minimize damage when switching in and before it uses Shell Smash, as its opportunities to set up and thus punch holes can be diminished as a result. Spikes support is very helpful to help Carracosta achieve certain OHKOs; Garbodor, Cacturne, and offensive Roselia are good Spikers that can cover Carracosta's weaknesses to Grass, Ground, Fighting, and Electric as well. Stealth Rock Mesprit is a good partner as well, as it can take Ground- and Fighting-type attacks aimed at Carracosta, fend off Poison-types, provide Healing Wish support, and take on Hariyama should Carracosta lack Superpower. In return, Carracosta can take on the likes of Scyther and Skuntank for Mesprit. Pokemon like Swellow, Tauros, Kangaskhan, Scyther, and Lilligant, which pressure offensive teams, can apply immediate offensive pressure and benefit from Carracosta's ability to lure their checks and counters while softening up the opponent's team. Fire-types, such as Pyroar and Magmortar, make for especially helpful teammates, as they can switch into Grass-type moves and Freeze-Dry for Carracosta while dispatching of Ferroseed, lessening Carracosta's need for Superpower. A fully physically based Shell Smash set can be used, but it is generally outclassed by Barbaracle due to its higher Speed. An offensive Stealth Rock set still has plenty of opportunities to set it up, has an excellent matchup against Xatu, spinners, and Defoggers, and functions as a powerful bulky attacker. White Herb allows Carracosta to retain its bulk after setting up and makes it less susceptible to priority, but it comes at the significant cost of Life Orb's power boost. Zen Headbutt can be used to hit Poliwrath and Gurdurr, while Hidden Power Grass deals heavy damage to Gastrodon. Weakness Policy gives Carracosta a ridiculous power boost combined with Shell Smash, and it pairs nicely with both Solid Rock, Sturdy, and Carracosta's many common weaknesses. However, this strategy is rather unreliable, and Carracosta will more consistently benefit from other items. An Assault Vest set can lure in special attackers that expect to KO it easily and hit them hard with its STAB attacks or cripple switch-ins with Knock Off or Scald burns.
Carracosta (SM competitive strategy): Carracosta finds its place in the PU metagame as a potent setup sweeper and wallbreaker thanks to its access to Shell Smash, a STAB priority move, respectable offensive presence, and a great physically defensive presence. Its typing, physical bulk, and ability Solid Rock grant Carracosta multiple setup opportunities in front of Normal- and Flying-types in the tier, and its good attacking stats allows it to run a mixed set able to break through a big portion of the tier. Its access to Aqua Jet gives it a niche over its main competition as a Shell Smash user in the tier, Omastar, since it allows Carracosta to break through common Choice Scarf users in the tier such as Primeape and Dodrio as well as naturally faster Pokemon, meaning that it's harder to revenge kill than its competition. Despite this, a low Special Defense stat and a terrible Speed stat mean that Carracosta is often forced out by many common special attackers such as Victreebel, Alolan Raichu, and Ludicolo if it hasn't managed to set up. This problem is further accentuated by its 4x weakness to Grass and weakness to common types such as Electric and Fighting from the likes of Abomasnow, Eelektross, and Gurdurr. Carracosta also struggles to break through physical walls such as Tangela and Ferroseed if it lacks the coverage move to hit them for maximum damage. Furthermove, Carracosta still suffers competition from Shell Smash Omastar, which outclasses it in power and Speed. Aqua Jet grants Carracosta a STAB priority move that allows it to OHKO or heavily damage a great number of faster Pokemon after a Shell Smash boost such as Alolan Raichu, Choice Scarf Primeape, Aurorus, and Dodrio. Hydro Pump allows Carracosta to threaten physically defensive Pokemon that might not fear Stone Edge or Aqua Jet such as a healthy Mudsdale, Regirock, and Gurdurr. Superpower in conjunction with Fightinium Z gives Carracosta another reliable way of dealing large amounts of damage to both Pokemon in addition to Regirock and Ferroseed, at the cost of using the item slot. Ice Beam allows Carracosta to break through Tangela and reliably OHKO Torterra. Rockium Z provides Carracosta with a powerful STAB Z-Move that's able to OHKO even physically defensive Pokemon such as Qwilfish after a Shell Smash and avoids the risk of Stone Edge potentially missing. Life Orb is an option that allows Carracosta to deal as much consistent damage as possible, notably granting a high chance of OHKOing Choice Scarf Primeape from full health after Stealth Rock damage, as well as OHKOing Alolan Raichu and dealing greater amounts of damage to Gurdurr and Tangela with Hydro Pump. White Herb enables Carracosta to maintain its defenses after a Shell Smash, making it harder to revenge kill for priority move users such as Hitmonchan and Choice Scarf users such as Primeape from full health. Solid Rock grants Carracosta additional setup opportunities and leaves it less vulnerable to moves such as Mach Punch. A Naughty nature maximizes Carracosta's Attack while sacrificing its already low Special Defense, allowing it to still be able to utilize both physical and special moves effectively and granting it multiple setup opportunities on many physically oriented Pokemon. If you're trying to sweep with Carracosta, you should attempt to wear down the opposing team as much as possible for it to clean late-game. This can be done by removing physical walls such as Tangela as well as Pokemon such as Gurdurr and Gastrodon if Carracosta is lacking the right move to deal damage to them. Bring in Carracosta in on Normal- and Flying-types such as Kangaskhan and Choice-locked Dodrio or weak physical attackers such as defensive Alolan Sandslash and Regirock, allowing it to set up Shell Smash with little to no risk, though Carracosta must be wary of Toxic from the last two. You should attempt to weaken Choice Scarf users such as Primeape and Rotom-F so they're in range of +2 Aqua Jet. Carracosta can also attempt to set up Shell Smash early in a match with the intention of wearing down a team or getting rid of a potential threat, offering support to its teammates by removing their checks or counters, though this can cause the loss of a potential late-game wincon. Pokemon such as Tangela, Ludicolo, and Victreebel are able to threaten bulky Water-, Ground-, and Rock-types that Carracosta might not be able to break through without prior damage, such as Gastrodon, Regirock, and Mudsdale. Entry hazard setters such as Ferroseed, Torterra, and Qwilfish are able to support Carracosta by wearing down opposing teams with Stealth Rock and Spikes and thus putting revenge killers in range of its boosted Aqua Jet. Strong special wallbreakers such as Alolan Raichu, Simisear, and Abomasnow are able to wear down and beat physical walls such as Tangela as well as other physically oriented Pokemon like Regirock and Gurdurr, which might be an issue for Carracosta if it's lacking Hydro Pump. Similarly, the aforementioned Tangela as well as Sableye and Oricorio-E are able to beat Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Hitmonchan, and Primeape. Wallbreakers like Stoutland as well as Knock Off users like Gurdurr are able to cripple bulky physical walls such as Tangela by removing their Eviolite. Hazard removal from the likes of Skuntank, Alolan Sandslash, and Cryogonal is greatly appreciated for keeping Carracosta as healthy as possible. Skuntank also is able to absorb Toxic Spikes, while the other two are able to maintain hazards on the opposing side thanks to Rapid Spin. Their ability to check various Grass-type Pokemon in the tier such as Victreebel is also a great asset that further increases their synergy with Carracosta. Hidden Power Grass can allow Carracosta to better threaten Gastrodon and Poliwrath, but tends to be inferior to the coverage of Superpower. A physically defensive set with Stealth Rock / Scald / Rock Slide / Toxic can be utilized but is often outclassed by the likes of Regirock, which has a better defensive typing and stats, and Omastar, which has a better offensive presence as well as the option of Spikes. A set with Shell Smash / Stone Edge / Aqua Jet / Stealth Rock can be utilized for role compression, as well as giving Carracosta more utility while also bluffing the regular Shell Smash set, allowing it to set Stealth Rock early- to mid-game and secure more potential setup opportunities due to your opponent not expecting Shell Smash. On the downside, giving up a coverage move for Stealth Rock often stops Carracosta from breaking through certain threats. Sturdy can be utilized to allow Carracosta to setup more reliably but is negated after it has taken hazard damage and makes Carracosta even more vulnerable to priority moves such as Mach Punch while giving up the defensive utility of Solid Rock.
Carracosta (SS competitive strategy): Carracosta is a niche but deadly Shell Smash sweeper. Aqua Jet lets it pick off weakened threats that outspeed Carracosta after a Shell Smash like Choice Scarf Rotom and Accelgor. Ice Beam lets it nail Grass-types like Tangela and Gourgeist formes, while Hydro Pump is an additional STAB move that lets it hit harder against Rock-resistant foes and physical walls like Klinklang and Cofagrigus. Solid Rock combined with Carracosta's solid bulk lets it set up on foes carrying super effective moves like Rhydon, Articuno, and Cofagrigus. With Life Orb, Carracosta needs less preliminary damage on foes like Choice Scarf Rotom and Miltank to clean after a Shell Smash. On the flip side, White Herb makes Carracosta harder to KO, as it allows it to take hits better from the likes of Alolan Persian's Foul Play and avoid recoil and Defense drops. With a Naive nature, Carracosta is able to outspeed the likes of maximum Speed Miltank, Gourgeist-S, and Galarian Rapidash after a Shell Smash, and nuke them with Stone Edge, whereas a Naughty nature provides stronger damage on Aqua Jet, requiring less chip damage on Choice Scarf users like Sawk and Rotom. Carracosta fits best on offensive teams, most notably on setup spam teams with other wallbreakers such as Silvally-Dark and Galarian Rapidash that can weaken or take advantage of its checks. Spikes support from the likes of Qwilfish, Roselia, and Froslass is much appreciated to put walls and Choice Scarf users in range of Stone Edge and Aqua Jet, respectively. Flame Body users like Coalossal and Rapidash make also for great partners, as they can cripple Thwackey and Choice Scarf Gourgeist with a burn, preventing them from reliably revenge killing Carracosta. Taunt users like the aforementionned Qwilfish and Froslass, Alolan Persian, and Skuntank can create setup opportunities for Carracosta against more passive walls and also prevent them from recovering preliminary damage needed for Carracosta's sweep. Dark-types like Morpeko and Silvally-Dark are able to weaken Fighting-types like Poliwrath and Gurdurr, putting them in range of Carracosta's attacks. Carracosta can run Heavy-Duty Boots and Sturdy to guarantee the use of Shell Smash. However, Solid Rock is usually more useful as an ability and it lets Carracosta use less situational items. Lum Berry is another option that lets Carracosta set up more safely against passive walls like Miltank, Rapidash, and Altaria.
Ursaluna (SV competitive strategy): A towering Attack stat brought to even greater heights with Guts, a brutal STAB combination comprising an outrageously powerful Facade backed up by a thewy Headlong Rush to eviscerate Normal-type answers including Kingambit and Pecharunt, and more than respectable bulk all combine to make Ursaluna a truly unbearable wallbreaker. Fire Punch provides crucial coverage against Ursaluna's exceedingly few checks, including Corviknight, Skarmory, and Air Balloon Gholdengo; alternatively, Ice Punch cleanly OHKOes physically defensive Gliscor and most Landorus-T after Intimidate, has a chance to OHKO Dragonite through Multiscale, and is a good option to break through Sinistcha. Swords Dance lets Ursaluna take advantage of forced switches or fearful Protects from the likes of Gliscor and Alomomola to push its Attack to truly unfathomable levels; at +2 Attack, Fire Punch is nearly guaranteed to OHKO Corviknight and ensures Ursaluna will OHKO just about everything else. Alternatively, Protect allows Ursaluna to avoid Knock Off, Trick, and status by giving a free turn to activate its Flame Orb while also scouting Choice-locked Pokemon and letting it play around Lokix's First Impression. 248 EVs in HP minimize the damage taken from burn and maximize Ursaluna's bulk. Alternative options include Supercell Slam, which hits Corviknight and Skarmory harder than Fire Punch at the risk of crash damage, and Trailblaze, which, alongside a Jolly nature and maximum Speed investment, enables Ursaluna at +1 Speed to outrun Pokemon such as Gholdengo, Dragonite, Raging Bolt, Pecharunt, Great Tusk, and Kyurem, making switching around Ursaluna a far riskier proposition. On Trick Room teams, a Brave nature alongside 0 Speed IVs can be considered to underspeed Pokemon such as Ting-Lu, Dondozo, and Hydrapple, though an Adamant nature might still be desirable to outspeed these Pokemon outside of Trick Room. Alternatively, 252 Speed EVs let Ursaluna get the jump on Corviknight, Skarmory, and uninvested Kingambit; a Jolly nature can also be considered to at worst Speed tie with opposing Kingambit. Tera Normal-boosted Facade, especially alongside Swords Dance, is nothing short of apocalyptic, having favorable odds to OHKO Corviknight at +2 Attack and downright annihilating anything that's not a Ghost-type. On the other hand, Tera Ghost flips Ursaluna's Fighting weakness into an immunity, letting it take on Pokemon like Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Great Tusk much more comfortably. Another option is Tera Fairy, which grants Ursaluna both Fighting and Dark resistances and a Dragon immunity, letting Ursaluna blank powerful attacks such as Choice Band Tyranitar's Knock Off and Low Kick and Dragapult's and Walking Wake's Draco Meteor. Each of these types rid Ursaluna of its Water, Grass, and Ice weaknesses, stymieing would-be revenge killers such as Ogerpon-W, Rillaboom, and Kyurem. Ursaluna is a terrific presence on Trick Room teams, exploiting its low Speed to bear down on foes and making use of its good bulk to tank priority attacks such as Dragonite's Extreme Speed and Kingambit's Sucker Punch, alongside a natural immunity to Raging Bolt’s Thunderclap. Trick Room setters like Hatterene and Cresselia are thus natural complements, with Hatterene able to deny entry hazards to preserve Ursaluna's health and with Cresselia using its solid bulk to set Trick Room in front of threats to Ursaluna like Ogerpon-W and Zamazenta. Each additionally offer Healing Wish and Lunar Dance, respectively, to help Ursaluna offset the constant burn damage it's forced to take, though it’s important to be cautious about the status-healing effect if Ursaluna has lost its Flame Orb. Iron Hands is a great partner on Trick Room teams, one which appreciates the help of Ursaluna to break through shared bugbears like Landorus-T and Zamazenta and can easily tear through Corviknight and Skarmory in return. Ursaluna also works well on Grassy Terrain teams alongside Rillaboom, taking advantage of Grassy Terrain's passive recovery to offset its burn damage and eradicating Grass-type checks such as Dragapult, Moltres, and Iron Moth to support both Rillaboom and teammates like Serperior; in return, Rillaboom and Serperior handle threatening Water-types including Ogerpon-W and Hisuian Samurott. To take full advantage of the longevity provided by Grassy Terrain, Ursaluna appreciates the entry hazard denial provided by Hatterene and Cinderace. Hatterene can use Grassy Seed on such teams to become a threatening Calm Mind sweeper, able to make use of the opportunities provided by Ursaluna thrashing its pain points like Kingambit, Iron Crown, and Galarian Slowking, while Cinderace scares out checks to Ursaluna like Corviknight and Air Balloon Gholdengo and appreciates Ursaluna mangling its checks like Raging Bolt and Alomomola. Ursaluna can also be used on dual screens teams, alongside a setter like Alolan Ninetales or Deoxys-S, pushing its bulk to extreme levels and allowing it to survive even super effective attacks from Pokemon like Kyurem and Walking Wake and OHKO them in return.
Eelektross (BW competitive strategy): walls such as Regice, Lickilicky, Audino, and Zweilous. A bulkier spread this. Garbodor is a great Spikes user, and Golem, Golurk, and examples of this, as they can both beat Lickilicky, Audino, Bastiodon, opportunity. Swellow, Ursaring, and Zangoose can all capitalize upon set has its own checks and counters. Camerupt, Ampharos, and Zweilous Thunderbolt. As for the physical set, Torterra, Tangela, Vileplume, and
Eelektross (XY competitive strategy): Eelektross's base 115 Attack and base 105 Special Attack, as well as its large movepool, make it a very versatile Pokemon. Its decent bulk also lets it act as an offensive pivot, tanking hits from foes such as Bronzong and Meloetta whilst dealing significant damage in return. Furthermore, it has virtually no weaknesses thanks to Levitate, which also grants it an immunity to Spikes and Toxic Spikes. However, it is extremely slow, making it difficult to use, as it gets outsped by most Pokemon, including those such as Jellicent and Alomomola which can easily inflict status on it. Furthermore, Pokemon such as Emboar are easily able to KO it, and its lack of reliable recovery outside of Leftovers makes it very easy to wear down through Stealth Rock and constant switching into Pokemon it would usually be able to check. Eelektross is also weak to status ailments, which hinder its performance in the long run, especially from status inducers, such as Alomomola and Jellicent. Volt Switch makes Eelektross a great pivot, allowing it to deal damage while taking advantage of entry hazard support to wear down its checks, such as Aromatisse, Druddigon, and Mega Audino, while retaining momentum. Flamethrower lets it hit Grass- and Steel-types such as Venusaur, Virizion, and Escavalier super effectively. Giga Drain deals with Ground-types, such as Rhyperior and Seismitoad, which are immune to Volt Switch, and it also allows Eelektross to recover HP. Hidden Power Ice can be used to hit Dragon-types which otherwise wall Eelektross super effectively, such as Flygon. Knock Off has strong utility, removing Leftovers and Eviolite from defensive Pokemon such as Aromatisse, Alomomola, and Togetic, making it easier to pressure them. Knock Off also breaks the Substitute of Substitute + Calm Mind Meloetta, which otherwise uses Eelektross as setup bait. Alternatively, Thunderbolt can be used in the last slot as a more powerful STAB move that OHKOes Clawitzer and Braviary and 2HKOes Spiritomb and Hitmonlee after Stealth Rock damage. Eelektross needs maximum HP and Special Attack to be an effective pivot. A Quiet nature boosts Eelektross's Special Attack. Assault Vest boosts Eelektross's Special Defense, letting it tank hits from Meloetta, Rotom-C, and special Virizion. Alternatively, Expert Belt can be used to increase Eelektross' damage output. If Knock Off is not used, the 4 Attack EVs can be moved into Special Defense, and a Modest nature should be used instead of a Quiet nature. Eelektross should be used as an offensive pivot, switching in and out throughout the match while applying pressure with Volt Switch and coverage moves. If Eelektross has been inflicted with status, it should Volt Switch to a cleric, such as Aromatisse and Togetic. To maintain offensive pressure, Volt Switch to a sweeper such as Hitmonlee, Flygon, Virizion, or Emboar. You should not risk letting Eelektross stay in on hard-hitting foes, such as Hitmonlee and Emboar. Also, make sure that Eelektross doesn't get hit by Knock Off, which will reduce its longevity. If the opponent has a Ground-type Pokemon, you should try to correctly predict the opponent's actions and use the appropriate move. As Eelektross is an offensive pivot, it should have a cleric as a partner in case it takes significant damage or is inflicted with a status ailment; examples include Aromatisse, which can provide both Wish and Heal Bell support, as well as Alomomola and Togetic, which can provide Wish and Heal Bell support, respectively. Entry hazard setters put a lot of pressure on the opposing team, as Eelektross forces many switches, racking up residual damage on its foes. Rhyperior and Bronzong are great partners, as they can set up Stealth Rock. Qwilfish, Roselia, and Mega Glalie can stack Spikes, while the former two can stack Toxic Spikes as well. Wallbreakers such as Life Orb Sigilyph, Choice Specs Rotom-C, and Choice Specs Meloetta can be used, as they appreciate Eelektross' ability to give them a free switch with its slow Volt Switch. Flygon is a great partner as well, as it forms a solid VoltTurn core with Eelektross and lures in Alomomola, allowing it to U-turn to Eelektross to gain momentum and pressure the foe. Dragon Tail can be effectively used with Toxic and entry hazards, dealing large amounts of residual damage. Flash Cannon together with Acid Spray lets Eelektross deal with Aromatisse and Mega Audino, which otherwise wall it. Eelektross can use Discharge instead of Thunderbolt for the increased chance to paralyze the foe in exchange for power. Charge Beam can be used to gradually increase Eelektross' Special Attack, making it more threatening. Eelektross can use Coil to boost its Attack, Defense, and accuracy, allowing Eelektross to use powerful moves with shaky accuracy, such as Rock Slide and Zap Cannon. Drain Punch can also be used to regain some HP, while Aqua Tail can be used to deal with Ground-types, such as Rhyperior and Mega Camerupt, making Eelektross a great Coil sweeper. Eelektross can run Choice Specs or Choice Band to hit extremely hard; alternatively, a Life Orb can also be used to avoid being locked into a move at the cost of some of Eelektross's HP. It can also run Leftovers to recover damage, which helps a lot due to its limited recovery. Eelektross can also run a physically offensive Assault Vest set with an Adamant nature. This would have Thunder Punch as its main STAB move, U-turn in place of Volt Switch so that it doesn't get walled by Ground-types, Knock Off to take out item-reliant foes, and Drain Punch to recover HP. Aqua Tail can be used over Drain Punch to hit Rhyperior and Mega Camerupt. An Adamant nature maximizes such a set's damage output.
Eelektross (SM competitive strategy): Eelektross is one of the best pivots in PU and fits into almost any team, having a useful defensive presence and using its wide array of moves in order to be an amazing wallbreaker. These moves consist of both coverage that can hit many Pokemon super effectively and support moves that can cripple Pokemon that don't mind the coverage. Its ability, Levitate, makes Eelektross immune to Spikes and Toxic Spikes, giving it an easier time switching in and defensively checking Flying-, Ground-, and Steel-types as well as certain special attackers such as Swanna, Mudsdale, Alolan Sandslash, and Lanturn. However, despite being able to check so many Pokemon, Eelektross is prone to being worn down by Toxic, Leech Seed, and simply switching into attacks too much. Pokemon that run the former two include Mudsdale, Ferroseed, and Tangela, all of which Eelektross attempts to take advantage of. While Eelektross does blanket check many special attackers, physical Pokemon like Stoutland and Aggron give it a lot of trouble. Furthermore, it is very slow, meaning it will often have to take a hit before striking back. Pokemon such as Lanturn have similarly good coverage and resistances while still serving as a slow pivot, giving Eelektross competition. Lanturn also has its own advantages such as a better typing and a higher Speed and Special Defense stat, but it has less of an offensive presence. Volt Switch serves as a decent STAB move while also making Eelektross a pivot, allowing it to switch out of unfavorable matchups while gaining momentum. Giga Drain serves as coverage for Ground- and certain Water-types such as Mudsdale, Gastrodon, and Lanturn. Flamethrower is the other go-to option for coverage, hitting Steel-, Grass-, and Ice-types such as Alolan Sandslash, Ferroseed, and Abomasnow. Knock Off weakens Pokemon dependent on their items like Eviolite users such as Type: Null. Acid Spray is an alternative option that allows Eelektross to more easily handle Pokemon like Oricorio-E and Gurdurr one-on-one. Drain Punch hits several targets such as Drampa, Aurorus, and Cryogonal while recovering health in the process. Finally, Discharge can be used in the last slot for the chance to paralyze the foe while being a slightly more powerful STAB option. Since Eelektross is run as an all-out attacker, it is able to hold Assault Vest to allow it to take hits from special attackers better. A Quiet nature is run alongside Knock Off or Drain Punch so that Eelektross gets the Special Attack boost while not lowering its Attack, as well as having a slower Volt Switch than opposing Eelektross. If not running physical moves, Modest should be run instead. If running Discharge, Eelektross can opt for 19 Speed IVs and a Quiet nature to outspeed Offensive Trick Room Jellicent while Trick Room is active. Eelektross will be using Volt Switch a lot in order to gain momentum. If you fear the opponent might switch into a Pokemon that is immune to or resists Volt Switch such as Golurk or Ferroseed, you can instead go for a coverage move or Knock Off in order to cripple them. Eelektross should be switched in to take special attacks from Pokemon like Oricorio-G and Swanna. However, it should not be your go-to switch-in for stronger special attackers like Abomasnow and Haunter, even if it can beat them one-on-one. This is because Eelektross's longevity is what allows it to switch in against weaker attacks throughout the match. Even when switching into said weaker attacks, stay wary of how easily Eelektross can be worn down. The same can be said about switching into bulky Pokemon like Mudsdale and Ferroseed, as they can further wear down Eelektross with Toxic and Leech Seed. Due to this, Eelektross is better as an early-game check for foes, but it can't always continue this later in the game. While Eelektross can switch in against various special attackers, stay away from physical attackers, as they can easily break through it. Eelektross is very easy to fit on teams. Other Pokemon with access to pivot moves such as Primeape, Alolan Persian, and Silvally-Fairy all make for good teammates. This is because they are able to build momentum alongside Eelektross. Additionally, Primeape deals with Type: Null, while Eelektross deals with Mudsdale and Flying-types like Swanna in return. Alolan Persian can restore Eelektross's health with Z-Parting Shot. It also has the perk of being physically bulky, which goes well with Eelektross's special bulk. The same can be said about other physically defensive Pokemon such as Gurdurr, Regirock, and Qwilfish. The latter two also supply entry hazard support for Eelektross, which helps put Pokemon like Victreebel in KO range and pairs well with Volt Switch. On the contrary, while Eelektross is immune to Spikes and Toxic Spikes, Stealth Rock does its toll, so entry hazard removers like Skuntank and Hitmonchan come in handy. Since Eelektross is a special wallbreaker, physical wallbreakers like Stoutland and Kangaskhan can more easily bypass specially defensive Pokemon like Audino and Calm Mind Drampa. In exchange, Eelektross beats physical wallbreakers like Mudsdale. Stoutland can also take advantage of Toxic and Will-O-Wisp in order to boost the power of its Facade. Pokemon like Victreebel can absorb moves like Toxic and Leech Seed for Eelektross. Eelektross can opt to run a physically oriented Assault Vest set of Drain Punch / U-Turn / Knock Off / Giga Drain. Investing in physical attack gives it greater recovery with Drain Punch and the ability to better threaten certain Fighting-weak Pokemon such as Audino and Drampa. Thunder Punch can give the set greater damage output, although it generally has less utility than other options. U-turn has no immunities, unlike Volt Switch, meaning Eelektross can gain momentum even against Pokemon like Lanturn, Torterra and Mudsdale. However, Volt Switch is still preferred on special sets due to its higher damage output. Superpower is an alternative to Drain Punch on special sets, as it hits the same targets harder but without the recovery and lowers stats. Thunderbolt can also be used in the last slot for a stronger STAB move, but the paralysis chance from Discharge is more preferable. A Substitute + Coil set turns Eelektross into a setup sweeper with a surprise factor when facing Pokemon like Mudsdale and Ferroseed, but it often relies on that surprise factor and Eelektross prefers immediate power and coverage. Leftovers can be run instead of Assault Vest for a passive form of recovery, but Eelektross loses a notable amount of bulk in the process.
Haxorus (BW competitive strategy): Haxorus has a niche on DragMag teams due to how Magnezone removing Skarmory allows it to make great use of its colossal Attack stat. However, it's mostly outclassed by the other Dragon-types in the tier such as Garchomp, Dragonite, Salamence, and especially Kyurem-B, as they are either faster or, in the case of Kyurem-B, stronger than Haxorus. They also all have a better defensive presence due to their better bulk and typings. Haxorus's meager defensive profile and middling Speed tier make it prone to being revenge killed by common offensive Pokemon like Latios, Garchomp, Keldeo, and Alakazam before setting up. Even after setting up, it's still vulnerable to Choice Scarf users like Latios, Keldeo, and Garchomp.
Haxorus (XY competitive strategy): Haxorus's massive Attack stat and its access to great setup moves, Dragon Dance and Swords Dance, make it a significant threat in UU. Its Speed, while only average for an offensive Pokemon, makes it the fastest user of Dragon Dance in the tier, notably allowing it to outspeed Mega Aerodactyl after a boost. Haxorus has great coverage to complement its STAB moves: Mold Breaker Earthquake and Poison Jab hit every Steel- and Fairy-type for major damage. However, Haxorus is rather reliant on Outrage to do significant damage to Pokemon such as Alomomola, Porygon2, and Milotic, making it easier to revenge kill. Additionally, Haxorus's mediocre bulk makes it difficult to set up, and as a wallbreaker, competitors such as Hydreigon, Krookodile, and Tyrantrum bring more defensively to the table through their superior typing, bulk, and abilities. Dragon Dance raises Haxorus's Speed and Attack stats by one stage, making it a deadly sweeper. Outrage hits relatively hard but confuses Haxorus after two to three turns and locks Haxorus into it during that period. Dragon Claw doesn't have the flaws Outrage does but is lacking in the damage department. Earthquake is the most important coverage move for Haxorus, being able to hit anything that resists Haxorus's STAB type for at least neutral damage. Poison Jab can be used over Taunt as an alternate coverage move to hit Fairy-types such as Sylveon and Whimsicott super effectively. Taunt is an option, but Haxorus would much rather have the coverage to hit the common Fairy-types of the tier. Life Orb gives Haxorus a nice damage boost at the cost of 10% HP each time it uses an attacking move. Lum Berry gets rid of status only once per match; it is also a good option when using Outrage, removing the confusion that the move causes. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs are being used to maximize Haxorus's sweeping potential. A Jolly nature allows Haxorus to outspeed positive-natured base 85s, whereas an Adamant nature gives Haxorus a 10% damage increase while still allowing it to outspeed Mega Aerodactyl after a Dragon Dance. This Haxorus set should be sent in during mid- or late-game to sweep or weaken the opposing team. Haxorus should set up on Pokemon that can't OHKO it, don't have phazing moves, or are forced out by it. This Haxorus set aims to sweep or clean mid- to late-game; therefore, wallbreakers make for excellent partners, such as Choice Band Conkeldurr and Choice Band Entei. Physically defensive Steel-types usually stop Haxorus from sweeping unless they're weakened, which makes Ground-, Fighting-, and Fire-types good partners. Examples of them are Nidoking, Heracross, and Entei, respectively. Shaymin is an amazing partner to this Haxorus set, as it can wallbreak as well as use Healing Wish to allow Haxorus more than one chance to sweep the opposing team. Haxorus's Choice Band Outrage is extremely powerful, 2HKOing Suicune and Porygon2 without prior damage even with a Jolly nature. Earthquake allows Haxorus to hit Steel-types such as Doublade and Mega Aggron on the switch, 2HKOing them easily. Iron Tail provides powerful super effective coverage against Fairy-types, even OHKOing defensive Sylveon after Stealth Rock. Poison Jab can be used instead for its accuracy, but doesn't OHKO defensive Sylveon. Dragon Claw is a safe STAB move to use when locking into Outrage is unwanted. Superpower is an interesting option that lets Haxorus KO certain targets such as Krookodile without having to lock into Outrage. Haxorus's Speed and Attack EVs are maximized to augment its offensive capabilities. Choice Band is the item for the set, as it allows Haxorus to be an amazing wallbreaker, nailing 2HKOs and OHKOs on a majority of the tier's premier walls such as Suicune and Florges. A Jolly nature is preferred in order to outspeed as many threats as possible, such as Krookodile, Roserade, and Nidoking; an Adamant nature doesn't help Haxorus acquire too many useful KOs. Mold Breaker is the chosen ability as it provides the most use out of all three choices, nullifying defensive abilities such as Levitate. This particular Haxorus set is most effective during the mid-game, when it can start to break down opposing walls or significantly dent the opposing team. Haxorus shouldn't be locked into Outrage if opposing Fairy- or Steel-types are still active on the opposing team, unless it's more beneficial to weaken a different predicted target. Swords Dance allows Haxorus to break through more defensively orientated teams by boosting its Attack stat by two stages. Outrage pairs well with Swords Dance due to its amazing damage output coupled with a STAB boost. Given that Outrage users such as Haxorus commonly lure in Steel- and Fairy-type Pokemon, super effective coverage against them is most appreciated in the last two slots, thus making Earthquake and Poison Jab perfect fits. The given EV spread maximizes Haxorus's offensive capabilities. Lum Berry allows Haxorus to shrug off status from Pokemon such as Alomomola and Porygon2 one time. A Life Orb, on the other hand, gives Haxorus a significant boost, but at the cost of 1/10 of its HP with each hit. A Jolly nature is crucial for outspeeding positive-natured base 85s. Meanwhile, an Adamant nature can be used for more power. This particular set is most effective against defensively oriented teams and is best set up when no faster threats are left. This set should also be sent in mid-game. Swords Dance Haxorus should be the primary win condition against stall teams. A set such as this is always paired best with cleaners, as they can usually sweep after Haxorus does its job; as such, Mega Sharpedo, Mega Sceptile, and Choice Scarf Mienshao make the best of partners. Lunar Dance and Healing Wish are both moves that can remove status and heal the recipient to full, giving Haxorus another chance to wear down walls. Therefore, Lunar Dance and Healing Wish users, such as Cresselia and Shaymin, respectively, make for excellent teammates. Swords Dance allows Haxorus to break through more defensively oriented teams by boosting its Attack stat by two stages. Dragon Dance, on the other hand, boosts Haxorus's Speed and Attack stats at the same time, allowing it to beat more offensive teams. Dragon Claw is a reliable STAB move, although its damage output can be underwhelming at times. Outrage, on the other hand, hits hard but has the drawback of locking Haxorus into it, leaving it open to being revenge killed. Earthquake is a great coverage move that allows Haxorus to hit the Steel- and Fairy-types that can take its Dragon-type moves with ease; it also allows Haxorus to hit Levitate Pokemon such as Bronzong thanks to Mold Breaker. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs allow Haxorus to sweep as efficiently as possible. Mold Breaker is the chosen ability, as it has the most use out of all three choices, nullifying defensive abilities such as Mega Aggron's Filter and Rotom-H's Levitate. A Lum Berry gives Haxorus a means of setting up more easily. A Jolly nature allows Haxorus to outspeed many threats, such as Krookodile and Kyurem. An Adamant nature can also be used, should the extra power be appealing. Haxorus should be sent in during the mid- and late-game against more offensive teams to have a good chance of cleaning up. Against more defensive teams, however, it should be sent in from the get-go or during the mid-game to wear down the opposing team for another Pokemon to clean after it. Haxorus appreciates entry hazard support, particularly Spikes support, making Froslass and Roserade good teammates. Teammates such as Swords Dance Heracross and Choice Band Conkeldurr can lure in and damage or KO Sylveon, Florges, and Whimsicott in order to make Haxorus's sweep easier. On the other hand, teammates such as Choice Scarf Mienshao may appreciate Haxorus weakening defensive Fairy-types and bulky Pokemon with +2 attacks. Pivot support from teammates such as Crobat can help Haxorus switch in safely and start to boost. Memento and dual screen support can provide easy setup opportunities as well. Haxorus can run a Choice Scarf set, but it would rather use its monstrous power to wallbreak or sweep after a Dragon Dance. Hydreigon is usually the superior option with its access to U-turn and ability to use its most powerful move without locking in. Dual Chop is an option over Dragon Claw on any Haxorus set, as it breaks through Focus Sashes, Sturdy, and Substitutes; however, it has a chance to miss, which can be crucial. Yache Berry can help Haxorus avoid being revenge killed by Mamoswine and can help it set up easily against other Pokemon such as Mega Swampert. Finally, Mental Herb is a gimmicky but possibly effective option on Dragon Dance Haxorus that can negate Whimsicott's attempt to Encore it. Mental Herb also negates Taunt from Pokemon such as Crobat and Mega Aerodactyl.
Haxorus (SM competitive strategy): Haxorus is a solid physical sweeper and wallbreaker in the UU metagame thanks to its superb Attack stat and a powerful STAB move in Outrage, as well as two setup moves in Swords Dance and Dragon Dance. Its typing also grants it good resistances that help it take hits from threats such as Suicune, Rotom-C, and Rotom-H and open up some setup opportunities. Furthermore, a decent physical movepool with coverage such as Earthquake and Poison Jab allows it to go toe-to-toe with Steel- and Fairy-types such as Mega Aggron, Empoleon, and Togekiss, and its ability Mold Breaker helps it to be a stallbreaker, allowing it to set up and bypass the tier's Unaware users in Quagsire and Pyukumuku, stall's normal answers to physical setup sweepers, and giving it an edge over other setup sweepers such as Cobalion. However, Haxorus's Speed tier, while good for outspeeding balance and stall teams, renders it slower than many of UU's faster offensive threats such as Latias, Infernape, and Hydreigon. Its mediocre bulk also hinders it by limiting its ability to set up and leaving it prone to being revenge killed by said faster offensive Pokemon or priority such as Mamoswine's Ice Shard. It faces competition as a Dragon-type from Latias, Hydreigon, and Mega Altaria, all of which offer more utility due to their better bulk, better typings, and stronger coverage. Swords Dance boosts Haxorus's Attack stat to incredible levels, giving it enough raw firepower to muscle through even the bulkiest of walls, such as Alomomola and Hippowdon. Outrage is a powerful STAB move that deals significant damage to anything that doesn't resist it, especially after a Swords Dance boost. Earthquake allows Haxorus to deal heavy damage to opposing Steel-types, such as Cobalion, Mega Aggron, and even Bronzong thanks to Mold Breaker. Poison Jab serves as a reliable coverage move to hit Fairy-types such as Sylveon, Mega Altaria, and Togekiss that could otherwise switch into Outrage comfortably. Maximum Speed EVs along with a Jolly nature allow Haxorus to outspeed Suicune and Kyurem, while 252 Attack EVs maximize its damage output. Mold Breaker allows Haxorus to bypass abilities such as Unaware, Filter, and Levitate, making it fare better against threats such as Quagsire and Mega Aggron, while also preventing Bronzong and Latias from freely switching into Earthquake. Dragonium Z gives Haxorus a one-time nuke in Devastating Drake, allowing it to OHKO Alomomola and Hippowdon after a boost and avoid locking itself into Outrage. Lum Berry, on the other hand, allows Haxorus to recover from a status ailment inflicted by a move such as Will-O-Wisp, Scald, or Thunder Wave while setting up or relieve Haxorus of Outrage confusion once after use. Haxorus functions mainly as a wallbreaker, using its sheer power to muscle through bulkier threats on bulky offense, balance, and stall teams. Ideally, Haxorus should be used mid-game to break down or pressure walls such as Suicune and Hippowdon. It should aim to soften such walls so that other teammates can pull off a sweep late-game. Due to its middling bulk, Haxorus often struggles to find setup opportunities, particularly against faster offensive teams. In those cases, Haxorus can afford to immediately use Devastating Drake or wallbreak with its attacks before going down; since it possesses such a high amount of initial power, it can wallbreak competently without a boost. However, against defensive and balanced teams, Lum Berry Haxorus can try to use a weaker defensive threat such as Blissey or Alomomola as setup fodder to enhance its wallbreaking capabilities. Haxorus appreciates entry hazard support due to its ability to force switches. Klefki is a very good teammate that can use Spikes to wear down grounded switch-ins and can paralyze faster threats such as Latias and Infernape. Cobalion and Mamoswine also set up hazards very well. VoltTurn users such as Mega Manectric, Scizor, and Choice Scarf Hydreigon steadily wear down the opposing team and help Haxorus switch in safely. Infernape is also a good user of U-turn that can check Scizor. Magneton can be used to trap Scizor and Klefki, which can otherwise check Haxorus. Late-game cleaners such as Scizor and Mega Sharpedo appreciate Haxorus's wallbreaking support and can handle faster offensive teams that Haxorus struggles against. Haxorus appreciates good revenge killers such as Nihilego and Krookodile that can fare well against offensive teams. Entry hazard removal is appreciated, since residual damage cause Haxorus to be easily revenge killed. Starmie, Latias, and Rotom-C make solid candidates; Latias can also heal Haxorus to full health with Healing Wish if the need arises. As a niche option, dual screens support is also very useful for Haxorus, as giving it extra bulk to safely obtain a Swords Dance boost will make it much harder to stop. The aforementioned Klefki is a very good candidates to provide such support. Dragon Dance boosts Haxorus's Attack and Speed stat to high levels, making it a very deadly sweeper that can outspeed most Pokemon after a boost. Outrage serves as a powerful STAB move, 2HKOing or OHKOing the vast majority of the metagame. Earthquake provides coverage for Steel-types such as Mega Aggron, and it can also hit Latias and Hydreigon through Levitate without the need to resort to Outrage. Poison Jab serves as coverage for Fairy-types such as Togekiss and Sylveon, which are immune to Outrage. Iron Tail is a usable alternative over Poison Jab due to its increased power, potentially OHKOing Sylveon and Togekiss after a boost. 252 EVs in both Attack and Speed along with a Jolly nature maximize Haxorus's initial power and speed. Mold Breaker is Haxorus's most useful ability, giving it an edge against threats such as Rotom-H, Mega Aggron, and Quagsire by bypassing abilities such as Levitate, Filter, and Unaware. Dragonium Z allows Haxorus to have a one-off nuke with Devastating Drake without locking itself into Outrage, allowing it to potentially OHKO Hippowdon and Swampert after a boost. Lum Berry, however, allows Haxorus to absorb a single Thunder Wave from Klefki, absorb a Scald burn, or undo the confusion from Outrage once. Haxorus can function in two ways: it can sweep late-game with a Dragon Dance boost once its checks, such as Mega Altaria and Scizor, are removed from play, or it can function as a competent wallbreaker and lure mid-game. Since Haxorus struggles to find setup opportunities due to its mediocre bulk and awkward Speed tier, it can be used to lure in its potential checks and wear them down with Earthquake or Poison Jab, and it can use its raw immediate power to muscle through teams, which can help it sweep late-game. It can wallbreak well overall, as it possesses a solid matchup against more defensive teams. If needed, Devastating Drake allows Haxorus to break past Alomomola and Hippowdon after a boost or two without locking itself into Outrage. Devastating Drake is most useful when the raw power is needed but there are still Steel- or Fairy-types on the opposing team to switch into Outrage. Haxorus can find setup opportunities against certain Pokemon such as Tsareena, as well as passive threats such as Blissey. VoltTurn support is also appreciated as a means of helping Haxorus get into battle more safely. Haxorus shouldn't try switching into moves, since doing that will leave it more vulnerable to being revenge killed by priority such as Scizor's Bullet Punch or reasonably strong attacks from faster Pokemon. Haxorus works very well on offensive teams as an effective sweeper and wallbreaker, so offensively oriented teammates work best for it. Entry hazard support is very valuable in aiding Haxorus's ability to sweep. Klefki can provide Spikes support as well as paralysis with Thunder Wave, and Cobalion can also be useful as a Stealth Rock setter. VoltTurn users such as Mega Manectric and Scizor can get Haxorus into play more safely, and Scizor is very useful to check Fairy-types such as Togekiss and Mega Altaria. Pokemon that can check Scizor are very useful; Moltres in particular makes a very good teammate that can also check Fairy-types such as Sylveon and Klefki to an extent. Magneton can also work as a means of trapping Scizor. Checks to Fairy-types are also appreciated, since Haxorus fails to OHKO several Fairy-types at +1, so Pokemon such as Scizor are very useful in that regard. Wallbreakers such as Nidoking, Primarina, and Terrakion can wear down Haxorus's checks mid-game to help it sweep late-game. Since Haxorus makes for a fairly competent wallbreaker even without setting up, other cleaners such as Scizor and Mega Sharpedo work well in tandem with Haxorus. Latias can provide Healing Wish support to recover a weakened Haxorus and give it a second shot at sweeping. Since Haxorus isn't particularly bulky and has difficulty setting up, dual screens support is generally useful, which Klefki can provide. Haxorus appreciates entry hazard removal to prevent it from being worn down to a point where it can be revenge killed, so Starmie and Latias make for very useful candidates. A Choice item, namely Choice Band or Choice Scarf, could work, but Haxorus is a little too slow to use a Choice Scarf effectively, and it would like to use its coverage effectively to deal with its switch-ins. A Double Dance set with both Dragon Dance and Swords Dance is also a possibility to work against both stall and offense. However, this forces Haxorus to compromise a coverage option, lessening its effectiveness as a wallbreaker or sweeper. Taunt can also be used to disrupt defensive threats such as Alomomola and Blissey, albeit at the expense of potential coverage. Life Orb is also a usable alternative item for Haxorus to give it extra immediate power although Haxorus does not appreciate the recoil damage that cuts into its already limited longevity.
Stakataka (SM competitive strategy): Stakataka possesses a unique niche in the UU tier, as its respectable Attack stat in conjunction with one of the lowest Speed stats in the game gives it a monstrously strong Gyro Ball. In addition, Stakataka's ability to accrue boosts upon KOing opposing Pokemon through Beast Boost combined with its access to Trick Room can make it a devastating late-game sweeper under the right conditions. A Steel typing and massive 61 / 211 / 101 bulk make Stakataka a decent choice for offensive teams that struggle with common threats such as Latias and Crobat. However, Stakataka's secondary Rock typing hinders its defensive utility by leaving it vulnerable to common bulky Water-types like Swampert and Suicune and compounding its weakness to Ground- and Fighting-type moves, making Stakataka extremely vulnerable to common Pokemon in UU like Krookodile, Cobalion, and Hippowdon as well as leaving it extremely vulnerable to Mach Punch and Vacuum Wave from Infernape and Lucario, hindering its capacity to clean up under Trick Room. Stakataka is also extremely one-dimensional, as its movepool is quite limited outside of Trick Room and its STAB moves. Thus, the same pool of Pokemon that can check Stakataka will always be reliable stops to it. Trick Room allows Stakataka to clean up teams late-game, since it will likely be attacking first due to its abysmal Speed. Gyro Ball is Stakataka's primary STAB move, hitting extremely hard due to its high Attack and ridiculously low Speed stats. Stone Edge is Stakataka's secondary STAB move, allowing it to break past Pokemon that resist Gyro Ball like Scizor and Volcanion. Lastly, Earthquake is the preferred coverage move for this set, as it allows Stakataka to meaningfully damage threats like Cobalion, Doublade, and Magneton. Maximum Attack investment with a boosting nature ensures that Stakataka will hit as hard as possible. Maximum HP investment will allow Stakataka to take as many hits as possible while setting up. Rockium Z turns Stakataka's Stone Edge into a 180-Base Power Continental Crush that can break past Scizor, Amoonguss, and other bulky Pokemon it would be incapable of OHKOing. Since Stakataka's Defense stat is absurdly high, a Lonely nature with 15 Defense IVs is necessary to allow Beast Boost to boost its Attack upon scoring a KO. Furthermore, Stakataka uses 0 Speed IVs to push the damage output of its Gyro Ball higher. In the case of another teammate needing to use a Z-Crystal, Life Orb can be used instead of Rockium Z to increase Stakataka's overall damage output. Avoid switching Stakataka in until its checks or counters are weakened as much as possible, as taking unnecessary chip damage will hinder its ability to tank common priority moves such as Scizor's Bullet Punch and Crawdaunt's Aqua Jet when attempting to sweep. Stakataka should aim to set up on Pokemon that cannot damage it significantly such as Crobat and Latias, though its massive bulk will usually allow it to set up Trick Room on most neutral hits should the situation require it. Keep in mind that Continental Crush's targets, such as Scizor and Alomomola, are often not safely OHKOed by it and must take a sizeable amount of chip damage before they can be taken out. In addition, bulky Ground-types like Swampert and Hippowdon will stop Stakataka in its tracks and must be removed before it can sweep. Likewise, Fighting-types with priority like Infernape and Lucario must be removed to prevent them from revenge killing Stakataka with a fair amount of prior chip damage. Stakataka requires that bulky Water- and Ground-types be severely weakened or removed. Thus, strong Grass-types like Tsareena and Celebi are often effective at breaking down threats like Hippowdon, and Suicune. Pokemon like Mamoswine and Mega Manectric can also heavily pressure Stakataka's standard checks and counters. Decent switch-ins to Ground- and Fighting-type moves are also necessary for Stakataka to fall back on should the situation arise. Pokemon like Latias and Crobat will all make decent partners for it. As the premier Spikes setter in the tier, Klefki makes for a good partner for Stakataka, as the residual damage will help Stakataka net more clean KOs. In addition, Klefki can be used as a check to Dragon-types like Latias and Hydreigon, which allows Stakataka to remain healthy until the late-game when it can set up and sweep. To assist in a sweep, Pokemon that can create setup opportunities for Stakataka are also valuable partners for it. Memento Chandelure and viable users of Light Screen or Reflect such as Klefki can be used to weaken incoming damage for Stakataka. Gyro Ball is Stakataka's most powerful STAB move that hits hard even when uninvested, allowing it to reliably check Psychic-types such as Latias and Azelf and Dragon-types such as Hydreigon. Rock Blast grants Stakataka a secondary STAB move that gives it an easier time against Substitute users like Chandelure. Stone Edge is an alternative to Rock Blast that gives Stakataka a STAB move with more consistent power, but its lower accuracy and fewer PP make it inferior to Rock Blast. Stealth Rock allows Stakataka to punish opposing switches and rack up chip damage. Protect allows Stakataka to scout for Choice item users such as Terrakion and Scizor. It also helps Stakataka gain more HP from its passive recovery and thus stay healthy. Toxic, alternatively, allows Stakataka to cripple common switch-ins like Hippowdon and Swampert. Maximum investment in HP and Special Defense in tandem with a Sassy nature and 0 Speed IVs allows Stakataka to better take on special attackers such as Latias and Mega Pidgeot and maximize Gyro Ball's Base Power. Beast Boost is Stakataka's only ability, allowing it to gain a boost in Defense for each Pokemon it KOes, letting it potentially check a wider range of Pokemon. Leftovers grants Stakataka with passive recovery, allowing it to stay healthy more easily. Switch Stakataka into special attackers that don't have super effective STAB moves, such as Latias, Moltres, and Togekiss, and prioritize setting up Stealth Rock against them to punish opposing switch-ins as much as possible. However, in Togekiss's case, it is advised to scout for super effective coverage. Scout with Protect against potential Choice-locked Pokemon such as Hydreigon, Terrakion, and Scizor, but take into account that some of them can punish Stakataka's attempts at scouting by setting up. It is also advised to scout for super effective coverage on Pokemon like Latias and Necrozma, whose STAB moves are resisted by Stakataka, and act accordingly. Hence, unless your team has countermeasures to setup sweepers that have the potential to actually be Choice-locked attackers, Stakataka should not use Protect on them. Gyro Ball is Stakataka's strongest STAB option and is meant to hit faster threats such as Latias and Nihilego. However, because of its low PP, it should be preserved, and Stakataka should use Rock Blast more often, especially if you predict a Steel-resistant Pokemon to switch in. Furthermore, if possible, attempt to double switch if predicting a Steel-resistant Pokemon to switch in. If using Toxic, attempt to cripple opposing switch-ins to Stakataka, such as Swampert and Alomomola. Stakataka fits best on defensive and balance teams because its unique defensive typing and immense bulk allow it to check threats to them, including Mega Pidgeot and Latias. Stakataka's typing and bulk allow it to take on Flying-types such as Mega Pidgeot and Moltres, so Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tsareena make for good partners. They can also take on Ground-types such as Swampert and Rhyperior that Stakataka struggles against, while Stakataka can take on Dragon- and Flying-types such as Latias and Mega Pidgeot for them. Because Stakataka has no reliable recovery, Wish passers like Alomomola make for good partners because they help Stakataka remain healthy. Fairy-types like Mega Altaria and Sylveon take on Fighting-types such as Infernape and Mienshao that threaten Stakataka out. Likewise, Doublade makes for a good partner because it can take on other Fighting-types such as Terrakion, Cobalion, and Lucario that can break past Fairy-types. Flying-types such as Moltres and Crobat can help Stakataka out by switching into both Fighting- and Ground-type attacks and checking Fighting-types such as Heracross and Infernape. Unaware users such as Quagsire and Pyukumuku can beat certain setup sweepers like Scizor and Terrakion that can potentially set up on Stakataka. Hazard removers such as Tentacruel and Moltres can remove entry hazards that wear down Stakataka, which allows it to switch into certain threats more easily. They can also take on certain Fighting-types, including Lucario and Cobalion, for Stakataka. Stakataka can use a Choice Band with Toxic, Superpower, or Sleep Talk in place of Trick Room to utilize its immediate power. Toxic can catch usual switch-ins such as Swampert off guard, while Sleep Talk allows Stakataka to reliably absorb Spore from Amoonguss. However, this set will make Stakataka even more one-dimensional, as it loses its sweeping capability and becomes easier to check when locked into a move with its extremely low Speed. Stakataka can also run a Chople or Shuca Berry to attempt to tank hits from offensive Fighting- and Ground-types like Nidoking and Heracross and do massive damage in return. However, this will make Stakataka significantly weaker compared to running a Life Orb or Rockium Z.
Stakataka (SS competitive strategy): Stakataka is a great defensive Pokemon thanks to its incredible bulk, great utility, and strong defensive typing, which let it check Pokemon like Salazzle, Talonflame, and Sylveon. Unlike other Steel-types, it's neutral to Fire and can threaten Fire-types like Salazzle and Talonflame with its STAB Rock-type moves. Offensively, Stakataka has a good Attack stat, which, in tandem with its low Speed, gives it an extremely powerful Gyro Ball. This makes Trick Room variants quite lethal. If Stakataka claims one KO, Beast Boost can allow it snowball through the opposing team. However, its typing does leave it 4x weak to both Fighting and Ground. Also, Stakataka is more vulnerable than other Steel-types to bulky Water-types like Vaporeon and Quagsire. Body Press takes care of opposing Steel-types that Stakataka wouldn't be able to hit otherwise, namely Copperajah, Silvally-Steel, and opposing Stakataka. Stakataka also gains a +1 Defense boost after KOing a Pokemon, which further strengthens Body Press. Toxic takes care of bulky Water-types like Gastrodon and Quagsire, which otherwise can easily shrug off Stakataka's attacks, while Rock Blast handles Focus Sash leads and circumvents Pokemon that use Substitute like Salazzle, Araquanid, and Braviary. 0 Speed IVs and a Sassy nature ensure that Gyro Ball hits as hard as possible. Because of Stakataka's glaring weakness to both Fighting- and Ground-types and its low Speed, it needs teammates that can handle Pokemon such as Toxicroak and Silvally-Ground. Therefore, Weezing and Vileplume are great defensive partners, while Salazzle and Starmie are great offensive checks to the aforementioned threats. Vaporeon and Sylveon deal with Ground- and Fighting-types, respectively, while having Heal Bell and Wish to keep Stakataka healthy. Flying-types like Talonflame and Xatu can switch in on incoming Fighting- and Ground-type attacks while appreciating Stakataka's resistance to Rock. Xatu, in particular, can wall Mudsdale and Quagsire, two very common Stakataka checks. Fighting-types like Toxicroak and Passimian appreciate Stakataka for its plethora of resistances, as they fear Galarian Articuno, Sylveon, and Talonflame, which Stakataka can easily take every hit from. In return, they deal with opposing Steel- and Rock-types more easily than Stakataka can. The same goes for Grass-types like Decidueye and Rotom-C; they appreciate Stakataka's ability to come in on Arcanine, Talonflame, and Escavalier and, in return, they finish off the Ground- and Water-types that give Stakataka problems. Trick Room with Stakataka's insanely low Speed ensures it will almost always go first and launch high-Base Power moves. Stone Edge is preferred over Rock Blast for its consistent wallbreaking power. Superpower hits Steel-types that resist both of Stakataka's STAB attacks, but it has the severe drawback of lowering Stakataka's Attack and Defense. Stakataka can forgo Superpower for Earthquake, which hits Doublade and Drapion but misses out on OHKOing Silvally-Steel. 0 Speed IVs ensure Stakataka moves first under Trick Room and maximize Gyro Ball's power, and 15 Defense IVs with a Lonely nature cause Beast Boost to increase Attack. Life Orb is preferred to reach important benchmarks such as always OHKOing Silvally-Ground with Gyro Ball, although Iron Ball could be used to win the mirror matchup against opposing Stakataka without needing to lose a Speed tie. Weakness Policy allows Stakataka to capitalize on its great natural bulk by taking weak super effective attacks, like a Vaporeon's Scald or Snorlax's Earthquake, while setting up Trick Room to become even more powerful than Life Orb sets. Air Balloon is another option to set up on Tauros, Silvally-Ground, and Tyrantrum, but it causes Stakataka to miss out on the important KOs Life Orb offers. Partners that can lure in and soften up Mudsdale, like Power Whip Copperajah and Grimmsnarl and Choice Band Passimian, make for amazing partners. Vaporeon and Mantine can come in on Water-type attacks and take care of Ground-types. Talonflame weakens physical attackers, especially Fighting- and Ground-types, with Will-O-Wisp and Flame Body, while Stakataka clears the Rock-types that threaten Talonflame. Pivots like Rotom-C and Heliolisk can check Starmie and bring Stakataka in safely on physical attackers. This allows Stakataka to force a switch and then set Trick Room. Xatu is another notable pivot, as it can bring Stakataka in safely with Teleport. Defensive Pokemon such as Vileplume, Quagsire, Vaporeon, and Mudsdale can all stall Stakataka's Trick Room turns, so teammates that can threaten them like Alolan Exeggutor, Rotom-C, and Vileplume are amazing. The former two also can pivot Stakataka in safely. In return, Stakataka clears Fairy- and Ice-type Pokemon that threaten them and helps wear down shared checks like Escavalier and Vileplume. Stakataka can forgo Trick Room and equip a Choice Band for immediate power that is very difficult to wall. While this is often not worth the long-term benefits a Trick Room set can reap, the surprise factor can turn the tides of a game. A Chople Berry or Shuca Berry can be used to survive a potentially fatal Fighting- or Ground-type attack, turning around an otherwise unfavorable matchup.
Zacian (SS competitive strategy): Zacian is a good revenge killer in AG due to its good Speed and Attack stat, which are further boosted by Choice Scarf and its ability Intrepid Sword. Its good bulk allows it to revenge kill Yveltal and deal with Dragon Dance Zygarde-C. Play Rough allows Zacian to OHKO many prominent Pokemon such as Yveltal, Zekrom, and Marshadow, while Close Combat hits Steel-types such as Zacian-C and Ferrothorn. Crunch allows Zacian to dispatch weakened Necrozma-DM while also ensuring that it can revenge kill a healthy Calyrex-S and is not completely walled by Lunala. Wild Charge heavily damages Ho-Oh, which otherwise walls Zacian very well and threatens to burn it with Sacred Fire. Wild Charge also gives Zacian a functional super effective option for Kyogre. Solar Blade takes advantage of Drought and heavily damages Groudon while also OHKOing Quagsire, which otherwise walls Zacian easily. Maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature and Choice Scarf allows Zacian to outspeed almost the entire metagame, even Pokemon such as Zekrom and Groudon at +2 Speed, making it easy to revenge kill foes. Zacian best fits as a revenge killer on bulky offense and balance teams. Pokemon such as Zygarde-C, Ferrothorn, and Eternatus provide great support by switching into its counters in Necrozma-DM and Quagsire and forcing them out. Ferrothorn can set Spikes, allowing Zacian to KO chipped foes, while also checking Kyogre and Xerneas. Groudon provides sun for Solar Blade variants of Zacian. In return, Zacian can deal heavy damage to Pokemon such as Xerneas, Zekrom, and Kyogre that threaten these teammates. Necrozma-DM can switch into Zacian-C, which can OHKO Zacian, and chip it down so Zacian can revenge kill it with Close Combat or Crunch. In return, Zacian pressures Yveltal and Zygarde-C, forcing them to switch out. However, it must be wary of Knock Off and Glare while switching in. On balance teams, Gothitelle can trap Necrozma-DM and Quagsire, allowing Zacian to put huge dents in the opponent's team.
Mienshao (BW competitive strategy): Mienshao is a premier Fighting-type that combines its stellar attacking power with its base 105 Speed, which outpaces a majority of top threats. It holds the distinction of being the fastest common Choice Scarf user, getting the jump on others like Heracross, Flygon, and Victini. Additionally, Mienshao has two abilities in Regenerator and Reckless that complement its strongest move in High Jump Kick; the former alleviates recoil damage it takes if it misses, while the latter boosts its already scary power. However, its defenses are quite terrible; strong neutral attacks can immediately KO Mienshao, and even resisted STAB attacks will do considerable damage. Mienshao is also super reliant on inaccurate moves, with its strongest attack further having the aforementioned drawback of recoil damage on misses. High Jump Kick is Mienshao's strongest move, dealing immense damage to targets that don't resist it. Stone Edge offers valuable coverage against threats like Victini and Zapdos that resist High Jump Kick. U-turn deals considerable damage to Psychic-types like Mew and Slowbro and allows Mienshao to effectively revenge kill Azelf. Additionally, U-turn acts as a valuable momentum grabber, which works in tandem with Regenerator to patch up any damage it has taken. Finally, Aerial Ace is Mienshao's best option in its last moveslot, allowing it to revenge kill Heracross, Virizion, and opposing Mienshao. Choice Scarf allows Mienshao to not only outspeed the entire unboosted metagame, but also most of the other common Choice Scarf users. Regenerator patches up any damage Mienshao takes through entry hazards and High Jump Kick misses, extending its longevity, while Reckless allows Mienshao to net KOs it otherwise wouldn't get by running Regenerator, including OHKOing Flygon and offensive Kingdra and 2HKOing bulky Zapdos lacking any Defense investment all after Stealth Rock damage. Choice Scarf Mienshao fits well on most balance and offense teams due to its self-sufficiency. Entry hazard setters like Rhyperior, Druddigon, Roserade, and Qwilfish help to deal crucial chip damage to Mienshao's switch-ins, opening up avenues for it to clean late-game. Pokemon such as Weavile and Togekiss can help break through some of Mienshao's best answers in Ghost-types and Gligar, so they are effective teammates. Other partners that appreciate being pivoted in, like Nidoking and Raikou, can help threaten Mienshao's checks. Finally, other U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Victini and Flygon allow Mienshao to come in more frequently and pick off targets. High Jump Kick in conjunction with Life Orb dishes out severe damage to targets that aren't Ghost-types or physically defensive Fighting-resistant foes like Gligar, Slowbro, and Qwilfish. Stone Edge is able to immediately KO threats like Victini and Zapdos after Stealth Rock damage. U-turn chips away at Mienshao's switch-ins and gains momentum while also allowing Mienshao to recover HP lost from any recoil damage via Regenerator. Hidden Power Ice allows Mienshao to severely dent Gligar, which would otherwise wall it; it also has the added utility of picking off weakened targets like Zapdos, Nidoqueen, and Xatu without the risk of missing. On the other hand, Fake Out is a good tool to use if Gligar is not an issue for the team, allowing Mienshao to get off some chip damage, revenge kill faster foes with low health, and even stall rain turns. Regenerator synergizes well with this set, allowing Mienshao to heal off recoil damage upon switching out. Life Orb Mienshao works best on balance and offense teams that appreciate Mienshao's ability to break through a wide swath of the metagame. Bulky Pokemon like Rhyperior, Snorlax, and Bronzong are able to withstand strong attacks aimed at Mienshao and provide Stealth Rock support or powerful attacks of their own. Weavile, Kingdra, and Choice Scarf Heracross complement Mienshao's ability to break down their checks and set up endgames of their own, while U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Gligar, Flygon, and Raikou allow Mienshao to safely come in more often and wreak havoc. Mienshao has a few other usable fourth moveslot options to soften up its switch-ins like Cofagrigus, Slowbro, and Gligar; Knock Off removes important items like Leftovers and Eviolite, while Toxic puts foes on timers. Swords Dance can be run on Mienshao's Life Orb set to boost its already fantastic Attack to terrifying heights, but its setup opportunities are severely limited by its lack of defensive qualities. Choice Band, alongside Reckless, can be run to maximize its wallbreaking prowess without the drawback of Life Orb recoil, but at the cost of being more easily revenge killed.
Mienshao (XY competitive strategy): No other Fighting-type in UU can boast the combination of Speed and power that Mienshao possesses. Its good base 105 Speed lets it outrun notable threats like Hydreigon and Celebi, while its excellent base 125 Attack lets it hit extremely hard. Its movepool is good too, with its STAB High Jump Kick backed up by good coverage options in Knock Off, U-turn, Poison Jab and Stone Edge. It also has access to two excellent abilities in Regenerator and Reckless. Regenerator lets it fire off powerful attacks throughout the match, while Reckless gives its STAB High Jump Kick incredible power. However, while Mienshao can dish out the damage it certainly can't take it. Low 65/60/60 defenses mean that just about any reasonably strong neutral move will 2HKO, which in turn makes it difficult to get Mienshao in safely. High Jump Kick may well be very powerful, but an untimely miss could mean a premature end to Mienshao. It also faces stiff competition from other Fighting-types like Lucario, Toxicroak, Cobalion and Conkeldurr, who can offer secondary STABs, higher speed or better bulk. High Jump Kick is Mienshao's main method of doing damage. When combined with Reckless, it is capable of OHKOing Pokemon such as Darmanitan, Haxorus, and Mega Aerodactyl most of the time. U-turn is used to gain momentum and does chip damage to Pokemon trying to stop Mienshao, especially Psychic-types such as Cresselia. Knock Off hits Ghost-type Pokemon for good damage, making them think twice before trying to switch into a predicted High Jump Kick, and additionally, it cripples Pokemon that rely on their items. Stone Edge is exclusively for Crobat, as it has a chance of OHKOing after Stealth Rock damage, which is important because Crobat is one of the most common switch-ins to Mienshao. Poison Jab can be used over Stone Edge to hit Fairy-types, particularly Sylveon and Whimsicott, but most of them avoid the 2HKO and getting locked into a Poison-type move puts Mienshao in a bad spot. The EVs maximize Mienshao's Speed and power. The 4 Special Defense EVs prevent Pokemon with Download from getting a Special Attack boost. A Jolly nature is needed to outspeed other Choice Scarf users, such as Krookodile, Darmanitan, and Hydreigon. Reckless makes High Jump Kick significantly stronger, turning lots of 2HKOs into OHKOs. Ghost-type Pokemon stop Mienshao from using High Jump Kick freely, so their mere presence on the opponent's team is threatening. For that reason, using Knock Off and U-turn early on is advised. Choice Scarf Mienshao is stronger than most Choice Scarf users, but it struggles to break through dedicated physical walls such as Chesnaught, so it has to be used mainly as a revenge killer or as a late-game cleaner. Mienshao's subpar bulk really limits its ability to switch in directly into most Pokemon and it's threatened by anything it can't OHKO, so be aware of its limitations. Mienshao appreciates entry hazard support, because it helps wear down the opponent's team. Krookodile works well as a Stealth Rock setter because it traps Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon that threaten Mienshao. Roserade is great as a Spikes setter because it can use Water- and Fairy-types to set up. Strong special attackers, such as Choice Specs Chandelure and Life Orb Hydreigon, are good partners because they can deal with physical walls switching into Mienshao's U-turn. Strong Volt Switch users, such as Mega Ampharos and Choice Specs Rotom-H, are great teammates, as not only do they threaten physical walls, but they can also form a VoltTurn core with Mienshao. Lastly, Mienshao greatly appreciates Pursuit support to remove or wear down Ghost- and Psychic-types; the previously mentioned Krookodile, Mega Absol, and Mega Aerodactyl are examples of Pokemon that can do this. High Jump Kick is Mienshao's strongest STAB move, and it 2HKOes everything that doesn't resist it or isn't a dedicated physical wall. Knock Off gives Mienshao great neutral coverage and is Mienshao's strongest move against Ghost- and Psychic-types; it also cripples Pokemon that rely on their items. U-turn is great to keep momentum and hits Psychic-type Pokemon decently hard. Poison Jab hits Fairy-type Pokemon, allowing Mienshao to OHKO Whimsicott, as well as 2HKO Florges and Aromatisse. Stone Edge hits Crobat, which otherwise completely walls this set. Fake Out is a usable priority move, but it's mostly used for free damage. Hidden Power Ice can be used to 2HKO Gligar, which otherwise walls this set. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs are used to take advantage of Mienshao's best stats. The 4 leftover EVs don't have much use, so they are dumped into Special Defense to not give a Special Attack boost to the uncommon Choice Scarf Download Porygon-Z. A Jolly nature is needed to outspeed threatening Pokemon such as Hydreigon, Shaymin, Haxorus, and Mega Glalie. Gligar is still 2HKOed by Hidden Power Ice even with a Jolly nature. This set needs Life Orb to boost Mienshao's power, and unlike a Choice Band, this item gives Mienshao the ability to fully take advantage of its movepool. Regenerator is the preferred ability because it makes using High Jump Kick less risky, helps with Life Orb recoil, and works amazingly well with U-turn. Reckless is an option because it allows Mienshao to 2HKO everything in the tier that doesn't resist its moves, including bulky physical walls such as Chesnaught and Suicune, but it makes Mienshao significantly easier to wear down and turns High Jump Kick into a high-risk move. Mienshao shouldn't mindlessly use High Jump Kick as long as there's a Ghost-type Pokemon on the opposite team, but it can play around most of them thanks to its Speed, coverage moves, and Regenerator. Without Reckless, Mienshao will struggle with breaking through healthy physically defensive walls, but they can be worn down with the combination of U-turn and Knock Off. Mienshao's poor bulk means it has problems directly switching into attacks, but with Regenerator it's possible to switch into relatively weak attacks to threaten the foe without being worn down too much. Entry hazard support is recommended because it helps Mienshao wear down its counters and checks. Both Krookodile and Roserade can set up Stealth Rock and Spikes, respectively, and have good offensive synergy with Mienshao. Crobat gives this set issues, so using a Pokemon that deals with it, such as Mega Aerodactyl, is advised. Pokemon that can take advantage of Mienshao using U-turn against some of its counters are good partners, for example Shaymin and Chandelure. Volt Switch users, such as Mega Ampharos and Rotom-H, also work well with Mienshao's ability to gain momentum with U-turn. Mienshao's ability to wear down physical walls helps Pokemon such as Dragon Dance Haxorus and Mega Absol break through the opponent's team, making them great teammates. A set with Swords Dance and 3 attack moves can be used to make Mienshao a fearsome wallbreaker; however, setting up is quite difficult and it doesn't need a boost to threaten the foe. Jump Kick and Drain Punch are decent secondary STAB moves, which can be used to alleviate Mienshao's reliance on High Jump Kick. Rock Slide can be used over Stone Edge on any set, but it doesn't guarantee the OHKO against Crobat after Stealth Rock damage. Aerial Ace can be used to hit Chesnaught and Heracross harder than any of Mienshao's other moves. Bulk Up and Calm Mind can be used on the Substitute set, but even with those moves it won't be able to set up and pass a Substitute without being forced out. Choice Band can be used to allow Mienshao to 2HKO virtually the entire tier. However, that item does not go well with High Jump Kick's drawbacks. Black Belt can also be used to bluff a Choice Scarf and potentially garner a free Substitute or Swords Dance boost as a result; however, without a Life Orb Mienshao loses the guaranteed OHKO on Crobat after Stealth Rock.
Mienshao (SM competitive strategy): Mienshao is a good fast pivot due to its access to U-turn and Knock Off in conjunction with Regenerator and an Assault Vest, allowing it to constantly pivot in and chip foes throughout a game. Furthermore, its high Speed lets it outspeed metagame staples such as Hydreigon, Celebi, and Nihilego, which greatly bolsters its ability as a pivot, and its pure Fighting typing enables Mienshao to check some of the tier's key threats in Hydreigon and Kyurem. Mienshao can also switch into other special attackers more easily due to its resistance to Stealth Rock and its increased special bulk from an Assault Vest. However, its typing also leaves it vulnerable to several key attacking types in Fairy, Flying, and Psychic, and it struggles with foes such as Mega Altaria, Moltres, and Latias as a result. While Mienshao may be able to switch into some special attacks due to its Assault Vest, it has minimal physical bulk, which makes it vulnerable to priority moves from Scizor, Mamoswine, and Crawdaunt and faster physical attackers like Terrakion and Zeraora. High Jump Kick is run due to its high Base Power, enabling Mienshao to OHKO Hydreigon and Empoleon. Knock Off enables Mienshao to remove the items of its switch-ins such as Amoonguss, Alomomola, and Primarina. U-turn lets Mienshao act as an offensive pivot, which can help it in unfavorable matchups against Pokemon that resist its moves or aren't crippled by Knock Off such as Mega Altaria and Mega Slowbro. Fake Out chips faster foes that threaten to KO Mienshao, such as Mega Beedrill and Infernape, and provides it with a way to pick off extremely weakened sweepers such as Dragon Dance Haxorus. It is also extremely effective at racking up chip damage when stacked with poison or burns. 100 HP and 156 Special Defense EVs combined with an Assault Vest allow Mienshao to take Devastating Drake or a Choice Specs-boosted Draco Meteor from Hydreigon or a Draco Meteor from +1 Latias. An alternative spread of 132 HP / 136 SpD / 240 Spe hits the same defensive benchmarks while sacrificing some Speed for HP to help in the matchup against physical attackers. Regenerator enables Mienshao to be a consistent pivot throughout a game so it can consistently check Hydreigon and other special attackers. Mienshao should be used primarily to pivot into special attackers like Hydreigon and Nihilego. It can also be switched into passive Pokemon such as Blissey that it doesn't fear much from; however, it must be wary of status. Once on the field, Mienshao should try to pivot out and generate offensive momentum with U-turn. It can also use U-turn to capitalize on the switches it can force against top-tier Pokemon like Hydreigon and Empoleon. Mienshao should attempt to stay healthy throughout the course of a match to ensure it can consistently check what it needs to. Pivoting or switching it out to recover health with Regenerator after taking an attack helps with this, but it should avoid taking strong attacks unless necessary. If a Pokemon that relies heavily on its item to function, such as Suicune or Choice Specs Primarina, is predicted to switch in, using Knock Off to punish it and thus lessening a threat to Mienshao's teammates is preferred as opposed to switching it out immediately. Against defensive teams, Mienshao functions best as a means to cripple key stall staples and passive Pokemon like Alomomola and Quagsire with the removal of their items, which can make it easier for its more offensive teammates to break through them. Despite Mienshao's lack of offensive investment, it can be used to KO certain frailer offensive threats like Lucario due to its naturally high Attack combined with a high-Base Power STAB move. It must scout for Protect users that can force it to lose 50% of its HP, however, such as Empoleon and Nihilego. Mienshao can be used as an effective switch-in to Volt Switch from Mega Manectric due to its high special bulk and ability to regain HP through Regenerator and pivoting. Mienshao fits best on offensive and bulkier or balanced builds alike that need a fast pivot capable of taking on Dark-types. It pairs extremely well with other Regenerator users, such as Amoonguss and Slowbro, to form a strong Regenerator core that aids and strengthens Mienshao's pivoting ability. These partners can also help Mienshao due to their high physical bulk that enables them to check strong physical attackers like Terrakion for it. Mienshao does not have the offensive presence to be able to break through bulkier teams and cores effectively, so it pairs well with strong wallbreakers like Mamoswine, Choice Specs Primarina, Nasty Plot Celebi, and Choice Band Crawdaunt. In return, it can pivot these slower Pokemon into play without them having to take prior damage. Due to the number of switches forced by Mienshao, entry hazard support helps it further punish opposing switches; Stealth Rock setters such as Mega Steelix, Nihilego, and Nidoqueen make good partners. Additionally, the latter two can set up Toxic Spikes, which pair extremely well with Fake Out from Mienshao. Flying-type checks like Mega Aerodactyl, Rotom-H, and Diancie can patch up Mienshao's weaknesses to key offensive threats in Moltres and Togekiss, and Mienshao can provide pivoting and Knock Off utility for them in return. Mienshao is susceptible to all forms of status, preventing it from performing its role adequately. As a result, clerics such as Florges, Sylveon, and Togekiss make good partners, all of which are also able to deal with strong Fighting-types like Terrakion that threaten Mienshao thanks to their Fairy typing. Mega Altaria is another great partner for this reason, as it can pivot into Scald and status from Pokemon Mienshao cannot threaten such as Swampert and Slowbro and can break through bulkier teams with a boosted Facade as a result. Entry hazards can prevent Mienshao from being able to survive powerful attacks due to the chip damage they provide; thus, pairing it with hazard removal options such as Empoleon, Tentacruel, Volcanion, and Hydreigon is beneficial. Priority moves from the likes of Scizor, Mamoswine, and Crawdaunt can pick off a weakened Mienshao due to its low physical bulk, so pairing it with physically defensive priority checks such as Mega Aggron and Suicune helps alleviate this. Doublade works exceptionally well with Mienshao, as it appreciates Mienshao's ability to check Hydreigon and can pivot into threats such as Terrakion and Scizor in return. Mienshao can opt to run a more offensive set of High Jump Kick / Knock Off / U-turn / Poison Jab with maximum Attack EVs and the Reckless ability combined with a Choice Band, which functions best on Sticky Web teams, but despite its additional power, this directly competes with Terrakion, which is faster and has a secondary STAB option that threatens typical Fighting-resistant foes. The same set can also be run with a Choice Scarf, but it becomes a lot weaker and struggles to compete with Choice Scarf Infernape as a pivot, which has better coverage and secondary STAB options as well. Stone Edge can be run to punish Flying-types, such as Moltres and Togekiss, that otherwise switch into Mienshao for free.
Mienshao (SS competitive strategy): Mienshao's niche lies in its solid Speed tier, powerful STAB option in Close Combat, and useful utility options like Knock Off and U-turn. Knock Off removes items from switch-ins like Toxapex and Intimidate Corviknight, notably ensuring that Mienshao doesn't take additional Rocky Helmet chip damage. U-turn pivots Mienshao out of counters it cannot wear down by itself, like Dauntless Shield Hippowdon, into a partner that can take advantage of them, which distinguishes it from other powerful wallbreakers like Terrakion and Heracross. High Jump Kick supplements Close Combat's meager eight PP, but it's risky to use when opponents have Ghost-types like Dhelmise. Poison Jab lets Mienshao fish for poison on Pokemon like Hippowdon, as well as revenge killing non-Triage Tapu Lele consistently. A Choice Band is recommended to make Mienshao a decently flexible wallbreaker, with Close Combat becoming hard to switch into, specifically 2HKOing all Tapu Fini and Zapdos. However, Mienshao can use a Choice Scarf to revenge kill important and fast threats like Tapu Koko and Barraskewda. Mienshao often struggles with physically defensive Pokemon like Toxapex and Mew, so it appreciates partners that can take advantage of them like Tapu Koko and Chandelure; in return, Mienshao forces out special walls like Blissey and Silvally-Dragon, or it removes their items with Knock Off and makes it easier for its partners to break through them. Choice Band Mienshao is flexible and can fit on offensive cores featuring Pokemon like Cinderace and Tapu Lele, which can wear down Mienshao's checks like Hippowdon. For Cinderace, Hippowdon is a shared check, so it and Mienshao can rack up damage together, while Tapu Lele can outright break past Hippowdon. Choice Scarf Mienshao hits a very important Speed tier that's hard to beat, and balance teams heavily appreciate it forcing out fast threats like Talonflame and Choice Scarf Genesect. Mienshao often wants both entry hazard setters and removers. Ferrothorn and Chansey are solid setters and switch into foes that force out Mienshao, like Azelf and Inteleon. Good Defoggers like Mandibuzz and Corviknight can additionally form a pivot core with Mienshao. A Swords Dance set stands out from similar sweepers thanks to Mienshao's wide variety of coverage options and powerful STAB move; however, this set lacks immediate power and is forced out by the same Pokemon that the Choice Band set is forced out by, such as Terrakion.
Mienshao (SV competitive strategy): Mienshao's access to Knock Off, U-turn, a great ability in Regenerator, and strong coverage solidifies its place as one of the tier's best offensive pivots. Knock Off and U-turn are a tried-and-true combo at making progress by allowing Mienshao to remove items and pivot out on potential switch-ins to keep up momentum. Mienshao's coverage options in Ice Spinner, Triple Axel, and Stone Edge complement its STAB Close Combat by allowing it to hit Noivern. Mienshao's top-tier ability in Regenerator allows it to shrug off many forms of chip damage like entry hazards, Life Orb, and Rocky Helmet, and it can power through weaker attacks from Pokemon like Cyclizar and Jirachi and threaten them with a strong attack at a low cost to itself. Despite all of that, Mienshao's frailty means that even physical walls with no Attack investment like Hippowdon and Amoonguss can threaten with significant damage, and running Life Orb makes Mienshao easier to revenge kill by faster Pokemon like Cyclizar due to the recoil damage. This makes pivot support from Pokemon like Talonflame and Magnezone very valuable to allow Mienshao to safely enter the field. Furthermore, defensive Fighting-resistant Pokemon like Talonflame and Slowbro can switch into Mienshao, punish it with Flame Body and Rocky Helmet, respectively, and threaten super effective attacks to knock it out. Choice Scarf allows Mienshao to outspeed the entirety of the unboosted metagame and common Choice Scarf users like Krookodile, Gardevoir, and Galarian Zapdos, making Mienshao a premier revenge killer. Knock Off punishes Close Combat switch-ins like Slowbro and Basculegion-F. Ice Spinner hits Flying- and Grass-types like Galarian Zapdos, Noivern, and Amoonguss for super effective damage. Stone Edge also hits Flying-types for super effective damage and guarantees an OHKO on Talonflame while not risking getting burnt by Flame Body. U-turn keeps up momentum by pivoting on predicted switches such as Hippowdon and Chesnaught. Regenerator helps increase Mienshao's longevity, letting it pivot around while healing off entry hazard damage and even switching in on weaker attacks. Tera Fighting allows Close Combat to 2HKO Jirachi, Noivern, and Quagsire. Tera Dark defensively helps Mienshao against Psychic-types such as Reuniclus and Psychic Noise Jirachi and boosts Knock Off's damage to guarantee an OHKO on Armarouge and Basculegion-F. Choice Scarf Mienshao fits best on offensive teams, acting as a great form of speed control, a late-game cleaner, and a premier revenge killer by outspeeding other common Choice Scarf users like Gardevoir and Krookodile. Mienshao can find itself easily taken advantage of by Ghost-, Psychic-, and Fairy-types like Gengar, Armarouge, and Gardevoir due to it being Choice-locked, so defensive partners that can switch into attacks from the aforementioned Pokemon like Krookodile, Empoleon, and Jirachi are appreciated. They, as well as bulkier options like Hippowdon and Umbreon, can further support Mienshao by setting up entry hazards or spreading Toxic poison to soften up the opposing team and make it easier for Mienshao to clean up, while Mienshao's Knock Off can remove potential Heavy-Duty Boots to rack up residual damage with hazards set up by its aforementioned teammates. Mienshao can form strong offensive VoltTurn cores with Pokemon such as Barraskewda, Baculegion-F, and Magnezone, keeping up momentum and racking up damage on switch-ins like Slowbro, Noivern, and Cyclizar, while Pokemon like Noivern and Jirachi lure in Steel-types such as opposing Jirachi and Empoleon before pivoting in Mienshao to threaten them. Slow wallbreakers like Choice Specs Basculegion-F and Hisuian Goodra appreciate pivoting in safely with Mienshao's U-turn and can force out and wear down Pokemon that would otherwise check Mienshao like Slowbro and Talonflame; they can also soften the walls on the opposing team to make it easier for Mienshao to sweep. Mienshao is able to form sturdy Regenerator cores with other Pokemon like Slowbro, Reuniclus, and Cyclizar to help increase the longevity of the team. Slowbro and Reuniclus are especially appreciated, as they can provide Future Sight support to punish any Poison-types switching in on Mienshao's STAB attack like Amoonguss. Life Orb Mienshao is a menacing threat in the metagame, capitalizing on Regenerator to mitigate the Life Orb recoil while hammering foes with hard-hitting attacks. Knock Off allows Mienshao to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types that attempt to switch in on Close Combat like Gengar, Armarouge, and Slowbro. U-turn helps it keep up momentum by pivoting on switch-ins like Chesnaught and Hippowdon while also hitting Psychic-types such as Slowbro for super effective damage. Triple Axel hits Flying- and Grass-types like Noivern, Galarian Zapdos, and Amoonguss for super effective damage. Ice Spinner trades power for accuracy, making Mienshao more reliable in exchange for missing out on important 2HKOs on Chesnaught and Hippowdon. Regenerator is an exceptional ability that synergizes well with Life Orb, boosting Mienshao's damage while offsetting any recoil and entry hazard damage on the switch. Tera Steel flips Mienshao's weaknesses to Fairy-, Flying-, and Psychic-type attacks into resistances, giving it great defensive utility against Fairy- and Flying-types like Choice Scarf Gardevoir and Galarian Zapdos. Tera Steel also gives it a useful Dragon resistance that helps Mienshao against Noivern and Cyclizar. Tera Dark provides similar defensive utility, making Flying-type attacks neutral and providing a STAB boost to Knock Off to OHKO Armarouge and Jirachi. Mienshao is an excellent pivot that can double as a wallbreaker thanks to its damage output being boosted by Life Orb and can function on bulky offense and offense teams. Mienshao appreciates entry hazard support that can help it pick up KOs on Pokemon it otherwise would not be able to like Amoonguss, so entry hazard setters such as Empoleon, Chesnaught, and Jirachi make for great teammates. This synergy goes both ways, as Mienshao's Knock Off can remove Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Slowbro and Amoongus to rack up residual damage with hazards. Empoleon and Jirachi are notable teammates for their ability to take on Fairy- and Psychic-type attacks from Pokemon like Reuniclus, Gardevoir, and Slowbro. Slowbro and Reuniclus can provide Future Sight support that punishes Poison-types and physical walls attempting to wall Mienshao like Amoonguss, Chesnaught, and Hippowdon; in return, Mienshao threatens Dark- and Steel-types like Krookodile, Empoleon, and Jirachi that try to absorb Future Sight, all while forming strong Regenerator cores with Slowbro and Reuniclus. Mienshao can also form strong VoltTurn cores with a plethora of Pokemon such as Magnezone, Raikou, and Basculegion-F, keeping up momentum and pressuring more passive teams by forcing constant chip damage with their strong pivoting attacks. Despite possessing a great Speed tier, Mienshao is still very easy to revenge kill with faster Pokemon like Gengar, Noivern, and various Choice Scarf users like Gardevoir and Galarian Zapdos, making defensive partners that can switch into these revenge killers very valuable. Steel-types such as Hisuian Goodra and Empoleon resist all of Mienshao's weaknesses, while Poison-types like Amoonguss can take on Fairy-type attacks from Gardevoir. Faster Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Gardevoir and Gengar make for great teammates that support Mienshao by providing speed control. Double-Edge can be slotted for coverage as means to hit Slowbro and Gastrodon for good neutral damage, while Regenerator heals off any recoil taken, but it misses out on coverage to deal with either Grass-types like Chesnaught and Amoonguss or Pokemon like Talonflame. This can be combined with Tera Normal to achieve a 2HKO on Gastrdon with Life Orb. Triple Axel can be used on Choice Scarf sets, trading accuracy for power and hitting certain foes like Chesnaught and Amoonguss for more damage. Choice Band allows Mienshao to 2HKO Chesnaught and Hippowdon with entry hazard support, but the downside of being Choice-locked might not be worth the small boost over Life Orb, and it still leaves Mienshao vulnerable to faster revenge killers. Swords Dance can strengthen Mienshao's role as a wallbreaker by allowing it to get past annoying switch-ins such as Hippowdon and Slowbro when combined with Life Orb, but it completely takes away Mienshao's role as a pivot.
Reuniclus (BW competitive strategy): Reuniclus is one of the best Pokemon in the tier as a result of its amazing ability, good offensive prowess, and defensive profile. Magic Guard invalidates the passive damage bulkier threats like Ferrothorn, Slowking, Rotom-W, Tentacruel, Skarmory, and Gliscor rely on, including sandstorm, entry hazards, and status, giving Reuniclus a great matchup against their team structures, especially when accompanied by Spikes. Its great coverage moves like Focus Blast, Hidden Power Ice, and Thunder make it just as scary to offensive threats switching in as the defensive ones it sets up on. For general defensive purposes, it can switch into and force out popular threats like Gliscor, Terrakion, Garchomp, Tentacruel, Ferrothorn, defensive Heatran, and Alakazam lacking Signal Beam or Shadow Ball. It also has good set versatility; on top of Calm Mind, it can run a powerful 3 attacks set that immediately threatens bulkier teams and a Trick Room set that flips the script on faster offensive teams. However, very strong Pokemon like Keldeo, Excadrill, Latios, Kyurem-B, and offensive Heatran can overwhelm Reuniclus as a result of its low Speed and lack of resistances. Pokemon that can prevent Reuniclus from setting up safely like Trick Choice Scarf Latios, Perish Song Celebi and Politoed, and Encore Alakazam and Politoed can punish the Calm Mind set. Reuniclus is also very vulnerable to Pursuit from the omnipresent Tyranitar, which often runs Chople Berry to take Focus Blast, as well as Scizor. Its Calm Mind set loses to Jirachi and can get walled by common Pokemon depending on coverage, like Excadrill if lacking Focus Blast and Dragonite and Latios if lacking Hidden Power Ice. Thunder hits common Water-types like Politoed, Slowking, Jellicent, and Starmie as well as Skarmory super effectively and has generally good coverage against other other common Pokemon like Heatran and Tyranitar. It can also paralyze, giving Reuniclus a way to punish switch-ins. Hidden Power Ice makes Reuniclus one of the best answers to Gliscor and hits other Ground- and Dragon-types like Garchomp, Landorus-T, Latios, and Dragonite. Focus Blast beats many common switch-ins like Tyranitar, Excadrill, and Heatran while threatening Ferrothorn and Skarmory more immediately so they can't set up entry hazards when Reuniclus isn't boosted. It also hits neutral targets quite hard, giving Reuniclus a good midground move to use. Psyshock is an option to let Reuniclus more confidently win Calm Mind wars against users like Latias and better threaten specially bulky Pokemon like Volcarona, Rotom-W, and Chansey. Defense investment is preferred for checking physical attackers properly and better taking Pursuit. A set with more Special Defense investment can be considered to better handle Pokemon like Latios, Alakazam running Signal Beam or Shadow Ball, Magnezone, and mixed Garchomp. Life Orb can be run over Leftovers with Psyshock to more easily beat other Calm Mind Reuniclus, but dropping Leftovers generally leaves Reuniclus too easily pressured. Calm Mind Reuniclus fits on sand teams because they enjoy it checking Fighting- and Ground-types and Alakazam while it appreciates the sand and entry hazards wearing down its switch-ins. Tyranitar sets sand, gets up Stealth Rock, and Pursuit traps Pokemon that can keep Reuniclus from sweeping, like Choice Scarf Latios, Encore Alakazam, Perish Song Celebi, and opposing Reuniclus. It can also take out or weaken Steel-types with coverage moves. Ferrothorn and Skarmory set up Spikes to wear down most of Reuniclus's common switch-ins, like Tyranitar, Excadrill, and Heatran. Ferrothorn switches into Dragon-types like Latios and Dragonite lacking Fire Punch and Superpower as well as Water-types like Starmie and Politoed. It also provides further support with Stealth Rock and Knock Off and appreciates Reuniclus checking Fighting-types like Terrakion and Breloom. Skarmory checks offensive Ground-types like Landorus-T, Excadrill, and Garchomp as well as Dragonite lacking Fire Punch and Scizor. Reuniclus works very well alongside other Psychic-types because they can overwhelm their shared switch-ins, mainly Tyranitar, Heatran, and Ferrothorn. As such, Alakazam and Latios are fantastic partners because they have a better matchup against offensive teams that Reuniclus can sometimes get overwhelmed by. Focus Sash Alakazam can revenge kill most Pokemon and punish opposing Reuniclus with Encore. Latios switches into Water-, Grass-, and Electric-types like Keldeo, Celebi, and Thundurus-T, with Colbur Berry Latios being particularly good at wearing down shared checks by forcing entry hazard damage with Roar. Gliscor can provide Stealth Rock and Knock Off to wear down Pokemon so Reuniclus can break through them. Gastrodon checks Fire-, Electric-, and Water-types like Heatran, Thundurus-T, and Rotom-W while spreading Toxic to help Reuniclus break through bulky targets. Excadrill pressures opposing Reuniclus and checks Electric- and Dragon-types while appreciating Reuniclus countering Fighting-types and Gliscor if running Hidden Power Ice. Landorus-T can set Stealth Rock and pivot Reuniclus in safely with U-turn. Heatran can set up Stealth Rock, spread status, check Dragon- and Steel-types like Latios and Ferrothorn, and wear down Tyranitar while benefitting from Reuniclus taking on Fighting- and Psychic-types like Terrakion, Alakazam, and Breloom. Fighting-types like Keldeo and Terrakion can take out Steel-types and Tyranitar while also wearing down various other Pokemon so Reuniclus can more easily sweep. Rotom-W checks Water-types like Keldeo and Starmie, pivots Reuniclus in safely with Volt Switch, matches up well into Steel-types, and burns Pokemon to make Reuniclus more likely to overwhelm them. This set distinguishes itself from the Calm Mind set thanks to its more immediate power and ability to pressure opposing sand and rain teams thanks to its defensive profile letting it come in on Pokemon like Tentacruel and Ferrothorn. Focus Blast beats many common switch-ins like Tyranitar, Excadrill, and Heatran while also breaking through Ferrothorn and Skarmory. It also hits neutral targets quite hard, giving Reuniclus a good midground move to use. Hidden Power Ice makes Reuniclus one of the best answers to every Gliscor set while also hitting other Ground- and Dragon-types like Latios, Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Dragonite and having good neutral coverage. Signal Beam hits Psychic- and Dark-types like Latios, opposing Reuniclus, Slowking, Starmie, and Tyranitar in one slot, making it a another good midground move. The given EV spread lets Reuniclus take Choice Specs Latios's Draco Meteor. 192 HP and 64 Defense can be used to avoid being 2HKOed by Choice Band Terrakion's Close Combat. Sand teams enjoy 3 attacks Reuniclus's more immediate offensive prowess for breaking through opposing sand and rain teams and it checking Fighting-types and Alakazam. Tyranitar sets sand, gets up Stealth Rock, and Pursuit traps Psychic-types like Alakazam, Latios, and opposing Reuniclus. It can also take out or weaken Steel-types with coverage moves. Ferrothorn and Skarmory set up Spikes to wear down most of Reuniclus's common switch-ins, like Tyranitar, Excadrill, and Heatran. Ferrothorn switches into Dragon-types like Latios and Dragonite lacking Fire Punch and Superpower as well as Water-types like Starmie and Politoed. It also provides further support with Stealth Rock and Knock Off and appreciates Reuniclus checking Fighting-types like Terrakion and Breloom. Reuniclus works very well alongside other Psychic-types because they can overwhelm their shared switch-ins, mainly Tyranitar, Heatran, and Ferrothorn. As such, Alakazam and Latios are fantastic partners because they have a better matchup against offensive teams that Reuniclus can sometimes get overwhelmed by. Focus Sash Alakazam can revenge kill most Pokemon, punish opposing Reuniclus with Encore, and enjoys Reuniclus wallbreaking for it. Latios switches into Water-, Grass-, and Electric-types like Keldeo, Celebi, and Thundurus-T and sweeps late-game with a Choice Scarf set. Heatran can set up Stealth Rock, spread status, and check Dragon- and Steel-types like Latios and Ferrothorn while benefitting from Reuniclus breaking Pokemon that check it like Tentacruel and Politoed. Fighting-types like Keldeo and Terrakion can take out Steel-types and Tyranitar while also wearing down various other Pokemon, while Reuniclus can check Psychic-types like Alakazam and opposing Reuniclus for them. Gliscor can provide Stealth Rock and Knock Off to wear down Pokemon so Reuniclus can break through them more easily. Gastrodon checks Fire-, Electric-, and Water-types like Heatran, Thundurus-T, and Rotom-W while spreading Toxic to help Reuniclus break through bulky targets. Excadrill pressures opposing Reuniclus and checks Electric- and Dragon-types while appreciating Reuniclus countering Fighting-types and Gliscor if running Hidden Power Ice. Landorus-T can set Stealth Rock and pivot Reuniclus in safely with U-turn. Rotom-W can pivot Reuniclus in safely with Volt Switch, check Water- and Steel-types like Keldeo and Heatran, and burn opposing Pokemon. Trick Room flips the script on offensive teams trying to overwhelm Reuniclus with their power and higher Speed. Focus Blast beats many common switch-ins like Tyranitar, Excadrill, Scizor, and Ferrothorn and hits neutral targets quite hard, giving Reuniclus a good midground move to use. Hidden Power Ice hits Ground- and Dragon-types like Gliscor, Garchomp, Latios, Landorus-T, Dragonite, and Salamence. Signal Beam is another good midground move that hits Psychic- and Dark-types like Latios, opposing Reuniclus, Slowking, Starmie, and Tyranitar in one slot, which is important to get the most out of Trick Room. Recover lets Reuniclus play defense and get more chances to set up Trick Room multiple times. However, it leaves Reuniclus wanting for coverage. This EV spread avoids a 2HKO from Choice Band Terrakion's Choice Combat while maximizing power. A spread of 208 HP / 200 SpA / 100 SpD can be used for tanking Choice Specs Latios's Draco Meteor. This set fits well on weatherless teams due to it being able to strongly threaten offensive teams that can overwhelm them, mainly rain teams. Magnezone is a key member of this team style, trapping Steel-types like Skarmory and Jirachi lacking U-turn so Reuniclus can get the most out of its Trick Room turns and avoid risking Focus Blast. Jirachi sets up Stealth Rock so Reuniclus is more easily able to KO its targets so it can make the most out of Trick Room's limited turns while also safely pivoting it in with U-turn so it can more easily set up Trick Room against threats that 2HKO it, like Garchomp and Alakazam packing Shadow Ball or Signal Beam. It can also take strong attacks from Pokemon that overwhelm Reuniclus, like Latios, Tyranitar, and Dragonite. Powerful Dragon-type wallbreakers like Choice Specs Latios, Dragonite, and Kyurem-B fit on these teams, weakening the opposition so Reuniclus can sweep in one attempt. Choice Scarf variants of Garchomp and Latios provide a safety net against offensive teams so Reuniclus isn't the only way to defeat them. Dragonite similarly helps against offensive teams with Pokemon that can break past Reuniclus to sweep like Volcarona thanks to its strong Extreme Speed and ability to take advantage of the holes Reuniclus breaks with Dragon Dance. Offensive Starmie wears down Pokemon like Tyranitar, Jirachi, Politoed, Ferrothorn, and Jellicent so Reuniclus can more easily break through them. Swords Dance Scizor appreciates Reuniclus threatening rain teams and can set up on Tyranitar to sweep through the aggressive offensive teams that can keep Reuniclus from setting up. Volcarona enjoys Reuniclus wearing down switch-ins like Tyranitar, Heatran, and Jellicent. Trick with a Sticky Barb or Flame Orb can be used on the Calm Mind set over Calm Mind or a coverage move to lure in and cripple switch-ins like Tyranitar, Excadrill, and Jirachi, which aids Reuniclus and the Psychic-types this set should be paired with. However, giving up Calm Mind makes it worse against the bulky teams the Calm Mind set is meant to threaten while giving up a coverage move makes Reuniclus unable to break through its checks if it doesn't manage to hit Trick on its desired target. Reuniclus has a great support movepool, making it potentially possible to run a support set with moves like Knock Off and Thunder Wave. However, its defensive typing isn't good enough to outperform other defensive Pokemon like Ferrothorn, Gliscor, and Skarmory. A set with Calm Mind, Acid Armor, Psychic, and Recover holding Rocky Helmet may seem appealing when paired with Toxic Spikes Tentacruel on rain teams to make Reuniclus beat Tyranitar and eventually impervious to all non-critical hits. However, this set takes too long to get going, and can be easily checked or forced out by Pokemon that are immune to Toxic Spikes or poison like Jirachi, Skarmory, Scizor, Trick Latios, and Encore Alakazam.
Reuniclus (XY competitive strategy): Due to its good overall bulk and power, Reuniclus is one of the premier Psychic-types in the tier. Most walls can't touch it after it gets a Calm Mind under its belt, as its access to recovery and good bulk let it set up on a large portion of the tier, and it is unaffected by residual damage thanks to Magic Guard, which also benefits Trick Room sets greatly, as Reuniclus won't have to worry about taking recoil from Life Orb. Reuniclus also has a huge base 125 Special Attack, which complements its bulk nicely and makes it dangerous for offensive teams to face if it sets up Trick Room. However, there are a good number of flaws that hold Reuniclus back, as its Speed is horrendous outside of Trick Room, which makes it vulnerable to common offensive Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Heracross when coupled with its mediocre defensive typing. Calm Mind is used to boost Reuniclus's Special Attack and Special Defense and complements its overall good natural bulk and offenses. Psyshock is used as Reuniclus's primary STAB move, as it lets Reuniclus win Calm Mind wars against Pokemon such as Suicune and Cresselia and do more damage to Florges and Blissey than Psychic. Psychic can be used instead, however, as it does more damage to physical walls such as Chesnaught and lets Reuniclus beat Curse users such as Snorlax if running Shadow Ball. Focus Blast hits Steel-types such as Aggron and Empoleon for super effective damage and threatens Dark-types such as Krookodile, Hydreigon, Absol, and Sharpedo. Signal Beam can be used instead to still gain coverage versus Dark-types, but allows Reuniclus to nail Celebi. Shadow Ball hits opposing Psychic-types such as Slowking and Cresselia for super effective damage, as well as Chandelure and Doublade, the latter of which beats Reuniclus easily otherwise. Thunder Wave can also be used over Focus Blast to cripple some of Reuniclus's checks, such as Hydreigon, Mandibuzz, and Chandelure, although this means it has no way of dealing damage to Dark-types. Maximum EV investment in HP and Defense along with a Bold nature are used so that Reuniclus can take as many physical attacks as possible, as its Special Defense stat will be boosted by Calm Mind. Magic Guard should always be used, as it prevents Reuniclus from taking passive damage, which is extremely useful, as then it doesn't have to worry about taking entry hazard damage or being worn down by Toxic; this also lets it run Life Orb without taking recoil, making it significantly more powerful, even when unboosted. Leftovers is the primary item, however, as passive recovery makes Reuniclus less reliant on using Recover and lets it focus more on boosting. Reuniclus should usually try to set up Calm Mind after Dark-, Bug-, and Ghost-types have been removed, as they can usually 2HKO Reuniclus even after a boost. However, it should be trying to set up against weak Pokemon that cannot 2HKO it, such as Alomomola and Florges, as it can shrug off their attacks with little trouble thanks to Recover, and Reuniclus usually forces the foe to provide enough offensive pressure to either force it out, 2HKO it, or phaze it. Reuniclus should usually be kept healthy before attempting to set up, as letting it get worn down too quickly without recovering makes it difficult for it to set up. Pokemon that can switch into Bug- and Dark-type Pokemon, such as Sylveon, Florges, and Aromatisse, are good partners for Reuniclus, as they can tank any hits from them with little trouble, threaten them with a STAB Moonblast, or pass Wishes to Reuniclus if need be. As Reuniclus forces out a lot of defensive Pokemon, entry hazard support is appreciated. Spikes in particular helps Reuniclus set up a sweep, as most of its checks and counters are grounded and get worn down by entry hazard damage. Chesnaught pairs well with Reuniclus, as it can reliably set up Spikes and can sponge Dark-type attacks aimed at Reuniclus. Due to the fact that Reuniclus can set up on many walls found on balanced or stall teams, late-game cleaners that do well against offense, such as Choice Scarf Mienshao, Swords Dance Lucario, and Dragon Dance Feraligatr, are all good partners for Reuniclus. Mienshao and Lucario also aid Reuniclus in sweeping by checking Dark-types. Trick Room is a valuable tool against offensive teams, as it turns Reuniclus into a powerful late-game cleaner, making it the fastest Pokemon on the field in some cases. Psyshock is the primary STAB attack and is used to hit special walls such as Florges and Blissey for more damage than Psychic. Psychic has more overall power than Psyshock and hits physical walls such as Rhyperior for more damage. Focus Blast is used to hit Dark- and Steel-types such as Krookodile, Hydreigon, and Mega Aggron, OHKOing the former two and 2HKOing the latter. Signal Beam loses coverage on Steel-types, but allows Reuniclus to take down Celebi with ease. Shadow Ball is used to hit other Psychic-types such as opposing Reuniclus, Slowking, and Cresselia for super effective damage, along with Chandelure. The given EV spread is used so that Reuniclus can maximize its bulk and power, while having a Quiet nature and 0 Speed IVs allows it to outspeed nearly everything in Trick Room. Life Orb is used to boost Reuniclus's power without taking recoil thanks to Magic Guard. It's usually best for Reuniclus to set up Trick Room late-game when most of its checks have been removed or weakened, as despite its good bulk, it will usually only get one chance to set up Trick Room and use it effectively against offensive teams. Because of this, it should also set up Trick Room as soon as it comes into the field. Unlike other Trick Room setters, such as Cresselia or Bronzong, it is best used to take advantage of Trick Room by itself due to its offensive nature. Entry hazard support is appreciated to weaken foes for Reuniclus when it sets up Trick Room, so partners such as Forretress, Swampert, Chesnaught, and Dragalge work well with it. While it isn't mandatory in most cases, having other Pokemon that can take advantage of Trick Room, such as Mega Abomasnow, Mega Camerupt, Choice Band Snorlax, and Escavalier, is appreciated, as they can punch holes into defensive teams if brought in safely and can also potentially clean in Trick Room. If Reuniclus is run on a balanced team, having Pokemon that can repeatedly switch into and threaten Dark- and Bug-types such as Heracross, Krookodile, and Mega Absol help it a lot. Sylveon, Florges, and Aromatisse are very good partners, as they can switch into all of the aforementioned Pokemon and pass Wishes to Reuniclus if necessary. Aromatisse can also set up Trick Room if Reuniclus is able to clean late-game but cannot find the opportunity to set up Trick Room itself. A Choice Specs set can be run to turn Reuniclus into a deadly nuke, but it's too slow to pull it off effectively, and it hates being locked into one move. Knock Off can be used to cripple Pokemon that are reliant on their item. Acid Armor can be used in conjunction with Calm Mind to turn Reuniclus into an extremely bulky wincon, but its lack of coverage forces it to have all Dark-types removed in order for it to sweep. Magic Coat can be used to bounce back Taunt and phazing moves directed at Reuniclus, but other than that, it has very little use considering Reuniclus is immune to passive damage. Kee Berry can be used to boost its Defense, somewhat like Acid Armor, and lets it run a coverage move, but Reuniclus usually wants the passive recovery from Leftovers. Regenerator can be used on offensive sets so that Reuniclus regains a little health each time it switches in, but it would much rather have Magic Guard so that it doesn't have to take passive damage from entry hazards, status, and Life Orb recoil. Other moves with smaller uses such as Grass Knot can be used, but Reuniclus rarely has the space to run them.
Reuniclus (SM competitive strategy): Reuniclus is a unique Calm Mind user in the OU metagame that makes use of its solid typing, bulk, and access to Magic Guard and Recover to quickly overwhelm passive teams that rely on more passive Pokemon like Toxapex, Celesteela, and Tangrowth. Thanks to these traits, Reuniclus is also a really effective stall and balance breaker. In addition to this, if opted for, it can outlast Dark-types like Tyranitar and Mega Tyranitar with the combination of Acid Armor and Toxic Spikes or Spikes support, making it a versatile threat. Reuniclus also finds itself coming out on top in wars against Calm Mind users like Clefable and Magearna thanks to its access to Psyshock. While Reuniclus's bulk is solid, Reuniclus is very slow and will often have to take a hit before it can move, which can force it into rather awkward situations when attempting to set up. If Reuniclus opts to run Acid Armor, it will find itself overly reliant on Toxic Spikes and Spikes support, meaning that it has to be played very patiently before it can pull off a sweep. Psyshock allows Reuniclus to win Calm Mind wars against Mega Alakazam and Clefable and lets it get past Chansey. Focus Blast allows Reuniclus to KO Dark-types like Greninja and Tyranitar as well as Steel-types such as Heatran. It also makes Reuniclus more capable of handling stall teams utilizing Mega Aggron than it would be without it. Alternatively, Energy Ball gives Reuniclus the ability to hit the aforementioned Dark-types more accurately as well as Water-types like Mega Swampert. It also lets Reuniclus hit Mega Sableye, Pyukumuku, and Quagsire, which makes it possible to break through stall teams utilizing Mega Sableye. Signal Beam hits Dark- and Psychic-types like Hoopa-U, Mega Alakazam, and opposing Reuniclus. However, because of the move’s lower Base Power, Reuniclus struggles more against bulky Dark-types like Tyranitar and Hydreigon. 44 Speed EVs allow Reuniclus to outspeed Toxapex and set up against it before it uses Haze. Rocky Helmet lets Reuniclus switch into and wear down Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny. Psychium Z gives Reuniclus a way to break past or wear down Pokemon that can ordinarily take a boosted Psyshock and potentially beat Reuniclus one-on-one like Mega Scizor, specially defensive Tapu Bulu, Tapu Fini if Reuniclus isn't running Energy Ball, and Kartana if Reuniclus is using Energy Ball. Fightinium Z with Focus Blast lets Reuniclus overcome bulky Steel- and Dark-types like Heatran, Hydreigon, both Greninja formes, and both Tyranitar formes. It's also worth noting that Focus Blast boosted by Fightinium Z never misses, making it reliable in scenarios where you can't afford to miss. Early-game, Reuniclus should attempt to stay healthy to check Pokemon such as Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, and Protean Greninja. Be careful about what to set up on early-game, as Reuniclus will often be forced out, and the opposing team will still be healthy enough to check it. Try to set up entry hazards early-game to use Reuniclus to force in checks like Greninja, Tyranitar, and Heatran that are easily worn down to facilitate a late-game sweep. If Reuniclus is running Focus Blast, take advantage of the fact that it can often lure in Dark-types that think they're safe hard switching in and try to catch them on the switch. However, be sure to sufficiently wear down Tyranitar into range of Focus Blast. Reuniclus should attempt to set up on Pokemon that can’t severely threaten it like Ferrothorn, Celesteela, and Chansey. Spikes helps wear down the opposing team, which makes it easier for Reuniclus to facilitate a late-game sweep. Ferrothorn and both Greninja formes are good options for this. Pursuit support is useful in removing opposing Psychic- and Ghost-types like Mega Alakazam, Mega Latias, and Blacephalon for Reuniclus. Mega Tyranitar and Weavile are good partners for this. Despite Reuniclus having coverage for Dark-types like the Greninja and Tyranitar formes, they are still an issue in a one-on-one situation, so checks for Dark-types like Tapu Fini, Tapu Bulu, and Toxapex are needed. Magnezone works well with Reuniclus by threatening and removing Mega Scizor, which is quite troublesome for Reuniclus otherwise. Acid Armor makes Reuniclus bulky enough to take on physical Dark-types such as Weavile and Tyranitar as well as Curse Mega Scizor if it manages to set it up safely. Psyshock allows Reuniclus to take on other Calm Mind sweepers such as Clefable, Magearna, and Mega Alakazam, as well as Chansey. The given EV spread maximizes Reuniclus's physical bulk and allows it to outspeed Toxapex. Leftovers gives Reuniclus a form of passive recovery. Rocky Helmet is another option that notably allows Reuniclus to wear down Tyranitar and Mega Tyranitar by itself. Magic Guard is the preferred ability to ignore Toxic poison and similar status ailments, which sets it apart from other sweepers. Use Reuniclus to check Pokemon such as Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, and Protean Greninja early-game. Switch Reuniclus into Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Celesteela and other passive Pokemon such as Toxapex and Tangrowth to use them as setup bait. Use Recover liberally to stay healthy throughout the match to stay out of range from critical hits and to consistently check Fighting-types. If Toxic Spikes is up on the opposing side of the field, use Reuniclus to force in a Dark-type such as Ash-Greninja, Weavile, or Tyranitar. In a situation where Weavile or Tyranitar is expected to switch in, Reuniclus should use Acid Armor so that it can set up safely after. If Toxic Spikes isn't up on the field, Reuniclus should either double switch out to a teammate that can take on these respective Dark-types or use Acid Armor to safely escape Pursuit. Toxic Spikes or Spikes is essential whenever using Reuniclus. Toxapex is a very notable Toxic Spikes setter, as it fits on most bulky builds very well. Greninja can be used too. Toxapex also checks Ash-Greninja, which forces out Reuniclus, even after the use of Calm Mind. Reuniclus appreciates the presence of Spikes on the opposing field because it wears down usual switch-ins. Ferrothorn usually fits better on defensive teams and checks Ash-Greninja as well. Tyranitar and Weavile can Pursuit trap bulky Psychic-types that can usually trouble Reuniclus, such as Mega Latias. Reuniclus can run a spread of 248 HP / 136 Def / 80 SpD / 44 Spe with a Bold nature and Leftovers to avoid being 2HKOed by Moonblast and Thunderbolt from Mega Diancie and Tapu Koko prior to set up, respectively.
Reuniclus (SS competitive strategy): Reuniclus's high HP stat and amazing abilities in Magic Guard and Regenerator allow it to function as a bulky setup sweeper or a specially defensive pivot. With high Special Attack, it's no offensive slouch either, so it can use Psyshock to come out on top in Calm Mind wars against Pokemon such as Sigilyph and Rest variants of Suicune. However, without boosts, it can be easily overwhelmed by strong special attackers. It can also have trouble with Dark- and Ghost-types such as Incineroar, Guzzlord, Golurk, and Chandelure. On the other hand, an Assault Vest set can be used to answer some of the strong special attackers in the tier such as Raikou, Xurkitree, and Nidoqueen. However, this set is extremely vulnerable to Knock Off, as it will severely reduce its effectiveness in standing up to such special attackers. Psyshock is able to help win Calm Mind wars against Pokemon such as Raikou and Rest Suicune, unlike Psychic. Focus Blast mainly serves to hit Steel- and Dark-types such as Registeel, Steelix, Incineroar, and Umbreon. Shadow Ball is an alternative for more immediate power when facing Psychic-types such as Celebi and Gardevoir, while also hitting the niche Doublade, which otherwise walls Reuniclus. However, it misses out on Dark-types such as Incineroar. Magic Guard allows Reuniclus to set up without being hindered by status conditions such as poison and burn. Colbur Berry is an alternate item that can be considered over Leftovers to stomach hits from Pangoro and Incineroar so Reuniclus can retaliate with Focus Blast. However, the loss of passive recovery can affect Reuniclus's ability to switch into or set up on certain Pokemon. Spikes or Toxic Spikes support from Pokemon such as Roserade, Heracross, and Galarian Weezing is greatly appreciated, as it helps wear down bulky opposition. Additionally, the former two Pokemon help deal with some of the menacing Electric-types in the tier such as Raikou and Xurkitree, while Galarian Weezing helps deal with pesky physical attackers, such as Heracross and Pangoro. Knock Off support from Pokemon such as Incineroar and Golisopod, especially when coupled with Spikes or Toxic Spikes support, is extremely beneficial thanks to removing Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon such as Incineroar and Leftovers from Suicune and bulky Steel-types such as Registeel and Klefki. Diancie also makes for a good partner, as it checks strong special attackers like Chandelure and Nasty Plot Togekiss. It is also able to set Stealth Rock and handle Dark-types such as Incineroar. As Reuniclus can tend to be reliant on its item, whether it be Leftovers or Colbur Berry, Knock Off from Pokemon such as Incineroar and opposing Reuniclus can be a nuisance. Therefore, good Knock Off absorbers such as Galarian Weezing and Rest variants of Suicune complement Reuniclus nicely. Psyshock provides consistent damage against Calm Mind users such as Raikou and Suicune. Future Sight allows Reuniclus to apply pressure on the opposing team, creating scenarios where the opponent is forced to make a choice between switching to their walls or key threats to take the Future Sight damage or sending out their Dark- or Steel-type, and both scenarios can be exploited accordingly. Focus Blast mainly serves to hit Steel- and Dark-types such as Registeel, Steelix, and Incineroar. Shadow Ball allows Reuniclus to hit Psychic-types, such as Celebi, as well as Ghost-types, namely Chandelure and the uncommon Doublade. If Reuniclus's teammates can sufficiently deal with Focus Blast or Shadow Ball targets, it can opt to run Knock Off, which is a neat utility move that removes key items like Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon such as Incineroar and Leftovers from Suicune and bulky Steel-types such as Registeel and Klefki. This is extremely valuable on teams with Spikes or Toxic Spikes support. 24 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature allow Reuniclus to always break the Substitute of standard Suicune with Psyshock. As Reuniclus requires its Assault Vest to constantly pivot into special attacks, it hates Knock Off. Therefore, Galarian Weezing and Rest Suicune are good choices as Knock Off absorbers. Heracross and Electric-types such as Raikou and Xurkitree appreciate the pressure that Future Sight exerts on Poison-types such as Galarian Weezing, Roserade, and Nidoqueen, and are good wallbreakers and cleaners with such targets removed. Ground-types such as Nidoqueen and Steelix provide Stealth Rock support and block Volt Switch, which means the opposition cannot easily take advantage of Reuniclus constantly pivoting into their Electric-type special attackers. An offensive Trick Room set can be run with maximum Special Attack investment and Life Orb. It has a better matchup against offense, but has to be constantly in Trick Room to pose a threat and gives up its defensive capabilities. Another set is a dual boosting set with Calm Mind and Acid Armor, with Stored Power as the only attack. With the right conditions, such as the opposing Dark-types and wallbreakers being removed, it can absolutely tear through teams. However, the prevalence of Dark- and Ghost-types such as Incineroar and Mimikyu makes it hard to find avenues for this set to thrive. It can also be easily overwhelmed by strong attackers if it does not get enough turns to set up. Trick coupled with an item such as Sticky Barb or Iron Ball can serve to cripple the opposing team.
Reuniclus (SV competitive strategy): Reuniclus is a unique stallbreaker in OU thanks to its combination of Psychic Noise, Magic Guard, and Knock Off that punishes passive play. Psychic Noise denies recovery from bulky Pokemon like Gliscor, Garganacl, and Dondozo as well as bypassing Substitute against attackers like Kyurem and Iron Moth. Knock Off removes Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Dragapult, Galarian Slowking, Alomomola, and Moltres in order to make them susceptible to entry hazard chip damage and Leftovers from Dark-types unaffected by Psychic Noise like Ting-Lu and Darkrai. Focus Blast is coverage to hit Dark-types that can otherwise switch into Reuniclus easily like Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Darkrai. Life Orb gives it a power boost, enabling it to secure OHKOs on threats like Iron Moth and Pecharunt with none of the downside thanks to Magic Guard. Magic Guard also enables Reuniclus to absorb status from bulky Pokemon like Gliscor, Moltres, and Toxapex. 44 Speed EVs are used to outpace uninvested base 35s like Garganacl, Dondozo, and Toxapex. Tera Fighting powers up Focus Blast to guarantee a 2HKO on Ting-Lu and gives it a resistance to Dark-type attacks, allowing it to check Pokemon like Kingambit and Darkrai. Tera Water is an alternative that allows Reuniclus to check threats like Walking Wake and Cinderace. Reuniclus fits best on offense teams that can take advantage of its ability to disrupt bulkier teams. Spikes setters like Ting-Lu and Hisuian Samurott are excellent teammates for it, checking Ghost-types like Dragapult and Gholdengo as well as checking Iron Crown while setting entry hazards to chip them down repeatedly. Reuniclus helps them out by using Knock Off to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from threats like Kyurem, Darkrai, and Enamorus to make them susceptible to chip damage from their entry hazards. Kingambit pairs extremely well with Reuniclus as well due to their fantastic defensive synergy; it fares well against almost all of Reuniclus's checks, namely Dragapult, Gholdengo, Darkrai, and Iron Crown. In return, Reuniclus is able to face off against some of Kingambit's worst matchups like Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, Substitute Iron Moth, and Dondozo. Zamazenta fits well with Reuniclus due to its ability to switch into Kingambit, one of Reuniclus's biggest checks, and check other Dark-types like Darkrai and Hisuian Samurott, with Reuniclus being good into some of Zamazenta's checks like Galarian Slowking and Moltres. Reuniclus is also able to utilize its combination of Knock Off and Magic Guard to remove Rocky Helmet from physically bulky Pokemon like Great Tusk, Landorus-T, and Corviknight without any drawback and absorb burn from Moltres's Flame Body, letting Zamazenta break through them without worrying about any potential chip damage or crippling status conditions. Fairy-types like Iron Valiant and Primarina appreciate Reuniclus having favorable matchups into bulky Poison-types like Galarian Slowking and Toxapex, allowing them to sweep after they've either been severely weakened or outright defeated, and Reuniclus loves their resistances to Dark- and Bug-type moves that let them come in on Pokemon like Hisuian Samurott and U-turn users. Moltres is a good pairing with Reuniclus, since it checks shakier matchups like Great Tusk, Kingambit, and Weavile and can use U-turn to bring it in safely. Wallbreakers like Kyurem and Raging Bolt love Reuniclus's ability to cripple bulky walls like Galarian Slowking, Gliscor, Garganacl, and Clodsire, wearing them down by either removing their items to make them susceptible to entry hazard damage or denying them their recovery. Reuniclus is also unaffected by Salt Cure chip thanks to Magic Guard. In return, they're able to decimate Pokemon that threaten Reuniclus like Ting-Lu, Ogerpon-W, and Hisuian Samurott. Pecharunt is able to pivot into Reuniclus with Parting Shot to land Knock Off and Psychic Noise into weakened threats and force switches.
Meloetta (XY competitive strategy): Meloetta is one of the most dangerous Pokemon in RU due to its large movepool and excellent stats, allowing it to fulfill a myriad of roles such as a wallbreaker and Calm Mind user. As a result, Meloetta finds its place on a wide variety of teams. Meloetta also has a unique typing that grants it an immunity to Ghost-type attacks, a quality shared by no other Psychic-type, which in tandem with its immense Special Defense stat, allows Meloetta to serve as a blanket check to various special attackers such as Sigilyph and Venusaur. However, Meloetta has a weakness to common Dark-type attacks such as Pursuit, allowing Spiritomb, Sneasel, and Absol, among other Pursuit users, to trap it. Despite its decent Speed tier, Meloetta is still outsped by many offensive threats such as Houndoom, Drapion, and Virizion, making it a struggle to perform at its best in certain matchups. Substitute allows Meloetta to avoid status moves such as Toxic, Will-O-Wisp, and Thunder Wave, as well as letting it survive a hit without taking heavy damage. Calm Mind boosts Meloetta's Special Attack and Special Defense, which makes it hit much harder and makes its Substitutes harder to break with special attacks. Psyshock is the STAB move of choice as its use is imperative in order to allow Meloetta to beat opposing Calm Mind users such as Slowking and Diancie. Focus Blast has excellent coverage alongside Psyshock, allowing Meloetta to hit Pokemon such as Registeel, Scrafty, Absol, Drapion, Bronzong, and Houndoom. Maximum HP EVs significantly increase Meloetta's overall bulk and prevent its Substitutes from being broken by Seismic Toss. 48 Speed EVs plus a Timid nature allow Meloetta to outspeed important Pokemon such as Adamant Absol and Choice Specs Exploud. The rest of the EVs go into Defense to allow Meloetta to take physical attacks much better. Leftovers allows Meloetta to heal lost HP from Substitute. Due to Meloetta's versatility, it is able to force a lot of switches, providing turns to freely set up a Substitute or Calm Mind. Switching into passive defensive Pokemon such as Uxie and Alomomola generally works best for setting either Substitute or Calm Mind, but be wary of switching into any status moves, as poison and burn greatly hinder this set's effectiveness. Knock Off is a problem for this set, as even a weak Knock Off can break Meloetta's Substitute and the move removes its Leftovers if Meloetta is not behind a Substitute. Though Houndoom and Drapion do check this set very well, it is worth noting that if Meloetta is at +1 and behind a Substitute, it is able to take down both after Stealth Rock damage. Any grounded Poison-type such as Drapion or Qwilfish or entry hazard remover pairs well with Meloetta due to its ability to remove Toxic Spikes, which makes the set much less effective. Specially based Flygon works well with this set because it is able to take down problematic Steel- and Rock-types such as Escavalier and Rhyperior, as well as remove entry hazards from the field with Defog. Qwilfish is a great partner, as it absorbs Toxic Spikes and sets up Toxic Spikes of its own, allowing Meloetta to stall out Pokemon as it sets up Substitute and Calm Mind. Emboar is a great partner for this set, as it takes on Spiritomb, threatens Steel- and Rock-types, and lures in Pokemon that Meloetta can use as setup bait, such as Alomomola and Jellicent. Aromatisse is another great partner, as it freely switches into Spiritomb and threatens it with Moonblast while also providing Wish and Heal Bell support to keep Meloetta healthy and free of status. Alomomola pairs well with this set due to its ability to switch in on Pokemon that give this set problems, such as Escavalier, and heal Meloetta with Wish. Because Meloetta is forced out by faster Dark-types such as Houndoom and Drapion, pairing it with Hitmonlee works well because it threatens Houndoom with Mach Punch and is able to provide Rapid Spin support. Hyper Voice has great neutral coverage and has the added bonus of hitting Pokemon behind a Substitute. Psychic is a great secondary STAB move that hits Pokemon such as Venusaur and Virizion super effectively and is the most powerful move Meloetta has on the set to hit Ghost-types with. Focus Blast has great coverage with Meloetta's STAB combination, allowing it to hit Steel- and Dark-types such as Registeel, Bronzong, Escavalier, and Scrafty. U-turn is a great move for retaining momentum, allowing Meloetta to switch out of a check or counter for a teammate to take advantage of. Dazzling Gleam is mainly for hitting Spiritomb, but it has the added bonus of hitting Scrafty harder than Focus Blast. Grass Knot is another option to hit Rhyperior and Seismitoad while still scoring the 2HKO on Spiritomb. Maximum Speed EVs plus a Timid nature allow Meloetta to outspeed as many Pokemon as possible, while maximum Special Attack EVs ensure that Meloetta hits as hard as possible. Choice Specs is the item of choice, as it significantly increases Meloetta's damage output, allowing Meloetta to wallbreak. Colbur Berry or Assault Vest can be used over Choice Specs to take advantage of Meloetta's coverage and power, but using those items to lessen weaknesses to various threats. Make sure to bring Meloetta in safely with U-turn or Volt Switch or after a Pokemon has fainted. Make sure to predict the opponent's switch-in and use the appropriate attack to deal heavy damage. For example, if the opponent has a Steel-type on their team, use Focus Blast to catch them on the switch. Due to Meloetta's naturally high Special Defense, it is able to take powerful neutral hits such as Exploud's Boomburst after Stealth Rock damage if needed. Against more defensive teams, U-turn is great move to use early-game, as Meloetta tends to bait in Steel- and Dark-types and switching out against these Pokemon ensures Meloetta keeps offensive momentum. Be wary of Knock Off, as it deals significant damage to Meloetta, if not outright OHKOing it, and reduces Meloetta's damage output by removing its Choice Specs. Try to be cautious when using Psychic, as Dark-types can switch in after a Pokemon has fainted to Pursuit trap Meloetta. Setup sweepers such as Nasty Plot Houndoom pair well with this set, as they appreciate Meloetta's ability to wallbreak. Houndoom is also a notable partner due to its ability to use Meloetta's most common switch-in, Spiritomb, as setup bait. Emboar is a great partner for this set, as it is able to check the Pokemon that this set tends to have issues with such as Drapion, Houndoom, Escavalier, and Spiritomb. Rotom-C and Jolteon also pair well with Meloetta, as both form a VoltTurn core with it, allowing them to switch into each other's checks and counters. Due to Meloetta's ability to force many switches, entry hazard support makes this set even more potent, so Spikes users such as Accelgor, Mega Glalie, and Qwilfish pair well with Meloetta. It is also worth noting that Qwilfish in particular pairs well, as it checks many physical attackers that threaten Meloetta, while in return Meloetta covers Qwilfish's weakness to Psychic-type attacks. Paralysis support from either Uxie or Druddigon helps Meloetta take on offensive teams much more easily, and both are also capable of setting up Stealth Rock to support Meloetta. Kricketune and Leavanny are also good partners, as they both provide Sticky Web support, which allows Meloetta to tear through offensive teams. Calm Mind boosts Meloetta's already impressive power to incredible levels, allowing it to bypass most bulky Pokemon with greater ease. Psychic is the primary STAB move, as it has sufficient power while hitting neutrally and is stronger than Psyshock against the majority of the Pokemon in the tier and thus works better after a single Calm Mind boost. There are also few targets in RU that Psyshock would have a distinct advantage over Psychic against. Focus Blast deals massive damage to Steel- and Dark-types, OHKOing Houndoom and smacking Registeel and Drapion hard after a Calm Mind boost. Shadow Ball is used to cover Psychic-types, allowing Meloetta to easily check Sigilyph while hitting the bothersome Bronzong, Slowking, Uxie, and Delphox. Dazzling Gleam is primarily used to target Spiritomb, but it also takes down the likes of Scrafty, Absol, and Sneasel without having to risk Focus Blast's accuracy. Maximum investment in Special Attack and Speed maximizes Meloetta's offensive potential, with a Timid nature making use of its Speed tier to avoid lagging behind the likes of positive-natured Hitmonlee, Rotom-C, Venusaur, and Medicham. The remaining EVs are placed into Defense to slightly improve Meloetta's weaker physical bulk, plus Meloetta's other stats do not really need improvement in comparison. Colbur Berry temporarily mitigates Meloetta's Dark weakness, which allows it to either survive a Dark-type STAB move to be able to retaliate, or to KO the likes of Hitmonlee and Emboar without the risk of being taken out by Sucker Punch. Serene Grace is Meloetta's only ability, but as many of Meloetta's attacks, most notably Psychic, have a chance to lower Special Defense, this can be notable, as it gives Meloetta the potential to overwhelm the foe with repeated hits. Offensive Calm Mind Meloetta can put immediate pressure against most teams due to its high power and effective neutral coverage, and the fact that it isn't easily revenge killed by Dark-types can make it difficult to dispose of quickly. However, Meloetta's lack of a boosting item means it often needs to use Calm Mind before it can start doing significant damage. Meloetta's best opportunities to set up Calm Mind would be against Poison- and Fighting-types that it threatens to immediately KO, such as Venusaur, non-Choice Scarf Emboar, Qwilfish, Gurdurr, and Weezing. Alternatively, Meloetta can set up on special attackers that can't do much to it, such as Sigilyph, Calm Mind Virizion, and non-Knock Off Hoopa, or simply use its high Special Defense to set up and absorb a blow from slower special attackers. Keep in mind that offensive Calm Mind Meloetta is rather prone to status, which means it might not find many safe boosting opportunities or might fail to sustain a sweep for very long. This means that offensive Meloetta is meant to break down teams in a faster, more reckless fashion, and it usually only needs one Calm Mind boost to do so, making it a good fit for offensive teams. Fighting-types like Virizion, Medicham, and Sawk can help remove Dark-type threats for Meloetta and appreciate Meloetta checking or weakening Psychic-types for them. Dazzling Gleam Meloetta is a particularly appealing teammate for Medicham, as it can heavily cripple if not outright OHKO Spiritomb, allowing Medicham to rampage. Dark-types such as Sneasel and Drapion can help non-Shadow Ball Meloetta against opposing Psychic-types, especially with Pursuit, and like having Meloetta break down the opposing team for them to clean up. Meloetta can also be paired with a fellow Psychic-type, such as Delphox or Sigilyph, as it can lure in and weaken Pursuit users to give its brethren more breathing room, and the two Pokemon can help to weaken each other's checks. Stealth Rock support is generally favored, as Meloetta may fail to achieve key KOs otherwise, such as an OHKO on Drapion with +1 Focus Blast, as well as a significantly higher chance to OHKO offensive Spiritomb with +1 Dazzling Gleam. Examples of Stealth Rock users include Diancie, Rhyperior, Seismitoad, and Bronzong, which can help Meloetta against most problematic faster physical attackers. Will-O-Wisp from teammates also offers a form of residual damage and gives Meloetta potential setup opportunities against the physical attackers it cripples; some of its users even benefit Meloetta further, such as Fletchinder handling Escavalier or Spiritomb trapping Psychic-types. Relic Song can be used to change Meloetta into its Pirouette forme with a set consisting of Relic Song, Return, Close Combat, and Knock Off and an EV spread of 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe plus a Jolly nature. A specially defensive set has some merits on Meloetta due to its great Special Defense and access to support moves such as Thunder Wave, Heal Bell, and Perish Song, but it tends to struggle due to it being easily Pursuit trapped. Work Up is an interesting option to utilize both of Meloetta's formes, though it is strapped for moveslots, limiting its effectiveness. Hyper Voice and Shadow Ball are alternative moves to use on Substitute + Calm Mind sets, but Psychic and Focus Blast have better coverage.
Meloetta (SM competitive strategy): Unfortunately, Meloetta simply has no place in the UU metagame. Despite its great Special Attack and natural bulk, its mediocre typing leaves with only two resistances and a common weakness in Dark, it lacks recovery, and it has an average Speed tier that puts it behind most Choice Scarf users even with a boost. For these reasons, it is hopelessly outclassed by Latias as an offensive Psychic-type. The closest it has to a worthwhile niche is as a late-game sweeper with Z-Celebrate, which, even with its bulk and power, is easy to both wall and overwhelm offensively due to its aforementioned setbacks. Z-Celebrate Meloetta aims to function as either a late-game cleaner or a wallbreaker for hyper offense teams. Though the listed attacks have solid coverage and Meloetta is quite strong, it only has one shot to truly accomplish anything, as it is quite vulnerable the turn it sets up, can only set up once, and is not much of a threat without a boost. Its added bulk upon boosting doesn't help much, either, as its lack of resistances and recovery makes it more delicate than its stats might imply. This leaves it easy to wear down or simply revenge kill, as it fails to outspeed the ubiquitous Choice Scarf Krookodile and Choice Scarf Hydreigon.
Meloetta (SV competitive strategy): Meloetta's amazing Special Attack and solid special bulk let it feature in several roles as a special wallbreaker, offensive pivot, Calm Mind sweeper, revenge killer, and late-game cleaner. Thanks to Meloetta's range, it can be unpredictable at team preview and early-game. Meloetta's ability to use Tera Blast as a STAB move only adds to its flexibility, and it's a great offensive user of Terastallization to turn the tables on its checks or enhance its Calm Mind set. However, Meloetta's offensive STAB moves leave gaps in its coverage against Steel-types like Klefki, Bronzong, and Copperajah, and it struggles to pack a coverage move and Tera type to hit all of them super effectively. This leaves Meloetta's Calm Mind sets especially vulnerable to these Steel-types, while its Choice item sets are prediction-reliant and struggle with Focus Blast's inaccuracy and Shadow Ball's limited coverage. Meloetta's Speed tier leaves it behind revenge killers like Paldean Tauros-W, Flygon, and Cinccino, while Scream Tail severely annoys Meloetta's setup sets with its fast Encore. Meloetta also competes with special attackers like Toxtricity, Munkidori, and Porygon-Z, which can offer much more immediate power, Speed-boosting options, and pivoting opportunities between the three of them. Meloetta's STAB moves are quite spammable against defensive staples like Amoonguss, Gastrodon, and Swampert. Hyper Voice's ability to go through Substitute is helpful against users like Raikou, Nasty Plot Uxie, and Goodra. Tera Blast makes Meloetta much more offensively threatening in conjunction with Terastallization. Psyshock is an alternative to Psychic, allowing Meloetta to nail specially bulky Pokemon like Porygon2, Goodra, Gastrodon, and Sylveon as well as special sweepers like Oricorio-F and Raikou, but Psychic's better damage against Pokemon like Diancie and Paldean Tauros-W makes it preferred. Shadow Ball covers Bronzong and hits Scream Tail, Oricorio-P, and Basculegion super effectively. In addition, Shadow Ball has a neat synergy with Serene Grace, improving Meloetta's odds to overwhelm Bronzong and Scream Tail. Focus Blast hits other Steel-types like Alolan Sandslash, Duraludon, and Copperajah super effectively, and it's useful coverage against Dark-types like Incineroar and Scrafty. U-turn lets Meloetta keep up momentum for its team against switch-ins like Klefki, Copperajah, and Bronzong. Meloetta can use Trick to disrupt its defensive switch-ins, as a Choice item is especially devastating to walls like Copperajah and Porygon2. However, Meloetta can drop Trick for U-turn so it can fit a coverage move while still acting as an offensive pivot. Tera Fighting grants Meloetta key resistances to moves like Knock Off and Sucker Punch against foes like Alolan Muk and Toxicroak, and the coverage it provides in conjunction with Tera Blast enables Meloetta to break through Copperajah, Porygon2, and Alolan Sandslash. Tera Fairy shares Tera Fighting's nice resistances against Dark- and Bug-type moves, and it grants Meloetta better defensive matchups against Fighting-types like Scrafty and Heracross when it's in a pinch. Tera Fairy also turns Tera Blast into a super effective move against Dragon-types like Goodra and Altaria, as well as a stronger option against Duraludon. Tera Ghost powers up Shadow Ball to nail Bronzong and Scream Tail, and the Fighting immunity it offers is helpful against Body Press users like the aforementioned Bronzong and Diancie. Meloetta appreciates checks to troublesome Steel-types like Copperajah and Bronzong, so wallbreakers such as Paldean Tauros-W, Paldean Tauros-F, and Basculegion make good teammates. Fighting-types like Scrafty and Toxicroak compensate for Meloetta's difficult matchups against bulky Dark-types like Incineroar and Alolan Muk. Offensive pivots like Flygon, Flamigo, and Kilowattrel can get Meloetta into good positions by bringing it in against defensive Pokemon like Breloom, Amoonguss, and Galarian Slowbro, which is greatly appreciated by Choice Specs variants. Slow, defensive pivots like Vaporeon, Swampert, and Incineroar can go a step further by tanking hits for Meloetta as they switch it in. Entry hazard removers like Cinccino and Altaria help keep Meloetta from being worn down as it pivots on and off the field. Meloetta itself appreciates hazards from setters like Copperajah, Diancie, and Gastrodon for wearing down checks like Alolan Muk, Klefki, and opposing Diancie. Physically defensive Pokemon like Amoonguss, Galarian Slowbro, and Sylveon can switch into physically offensive revenge killers such as Flygon, Paldean Tauros-W, and Scyther to let Meloetta switch out. Substitute helps Meloetta set up against passive Pokemon it forces out, including Amoonguss and Gastrodon. Substitute's effect of blocking status comes in handy against Porygon2 and Galarian Slowbro, and Meloetta can depend on Substitute as protection from revenge killers like Paldean Tauros-W and Choice Scarf Basculegion. Meloetta can also use Substitute to play around Toxicroak's Sucker Punch. Psyshock is used over Psychic to win boosting wars against opposing special sweepers like Scream Tail, Sylveon, and Raikou. Psyshock's additional damage against specially defensive Pokemon like Goodra, Porygon2, and Gastrodon is another perk. Tera Blast is used instead of Hyper Voice to make Meloetta's STAB attack flexible coverage with Terastallization. Leftovers enables Meloetta to set up Substitute multiple times, turning passive Pokemon like Gastrodon and Porygon2 into setup fodder. Tera Fighting improves Meloetta's matchups against Dark-types like Alolan Muk and turns Tera Blast into a solid coverage move against targets like Copperajah, Incineroar, and Porygon2. Alternatively, Tera Fairy also gives Meloetta a Dark resistance while giving it a stronger coverage against Goodra and Scrafty and an immunity to Dragon Tail. Specially offensive pivots like Toxtricity, Kilowattrel, and Inteleon can draw in special walls like Porygon2 and Gastrodon for Meloetta to use as setup fodder. Defensive pivots like Incineroar, Vaporeon, and Gligar can get Meloetta onto the field safely. Alolan Ninetales can set up Aurora Veil to facilitate Meloetta's ease of setting up, and it's also solid at wearing down Steel-types like Klefki and Bronzong for Meloetta to overwhelm later. Alolan Muk, Munkidori, and Diancie can also draw in and weaken Steel-types for Meloetta. Entry hazard setters like Klefki, the aforementioned Diancie, and Gligar serve to soften up foes like Alolan Muk and Porygon2, facilitating Meloetta's ability to break through them. Hazard removal support from Avalugg and Scyther helps Meloetta not be worn down too quickly as it uses Substitute. Alluring Voice goes through Substitute and provides Meloetta with Fairy-type coverage without requiring it to Terastallize, but common Dark-types like Incineroar and Alolan Muk are hit neutrally by it anyway. Knock Off provides similar utility to Trick against item-dependent Pokemon like Incineroar and Porygon2 without forcing Meloetta to give up its Choice item, but a Choice item tends to be more devastating against these foes. Assault Vest Meloetta has great special bulk for tanking hits from wallbreakers like Toxtricity and Porygon-Z, but it lacks the standout Speed and power of its Choice sets. Meloetta can run a pivot set with Heavy-Duty Boots that avoids the shortcomings of its Choice item sets having to lock into one move and taking entry hazard damage.
Slurpuff (XY competitive strategy): This is a sample set. We aren't working on ORAS Monotype analyses at the moment, but check out ORAS Monotype resources for more information about the metagame.
Slurpuff (SS competitive strategy): Slurpuff is an extremely reliable Sticky Web lead in AG and a solid enabler for hyper offense thanks to its unique movepool and powerful ability in Unburden. Magic Coat allows it to force 50/50s against opposing leads that might threaten Taunt, such as Yveltal and Grimmsnarl, while also deterring Stealth Rock setters and leads like Necrozma-DM and Landorus-T. Misty Explosion is extremely useful, enabling Slurpuff to block Defog or Rapid Spin attempts from slower Pokemon like Yveltal and Excadrill after its Focus Sash has been activated, as well as potentially bringing a teammate in safely. Yawn prevents Pokemon like Necrozma-DM and Calyrex-S from setting up freely on Slurpuff, and it can give teammates free setup turns if a foe KOes Slurpuff while drowsy. Endeavor can also be used to deter setup attempts and generally cripple opposing leads, working together with Focus Sash and Unburden to allow Slurpuff to threaten Pokemon like Necrozma-DM and Xerneas, which could otherwise cleanly 2HKO it. Focus Sash is vital to set Sticky Web against faster Pokemon while also synergizing nicely with Unburden to let Slurpuff outspeed the entire unboosted metagame, allowing for a Yawn or Endeavor before it's KOed. The given EVs and IVs with a Naive nature minimize Slurpuff's bulk to help it activate Focus Sash, notably ensuring that Life Orb Yveltal's Oblivion Wing does so. Slurpuff fits only on hyper offense teams where its Sticky Web support can enable threatening wallbreakers and sweepers. Teammates that work especially well alongside Slurpuff include Choice Specs Kyogre and Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM, which greatly appreciate outspeeding Eternatus and outspeeding Calyrex-S after a boost, respectively. Calyrex-S can also be a solid teammate thanks to its ability to block Rapid Spin from Excadrill. Since Slurpuff can't set Stealth Rock outside of using Magic Coat, a secondary lead like Landorus-T often works great alongside it, with Landorus-T additionally being able to block entry hazard removal through Explosion, gaining considerable momentum. Teammates that can use Taunt to block opposing Defog attempts later in the game are also tremendously useful, with Yveltal being the best example. Similarly, it's important to have teammates that can reliably pressure Defoggers, such as Zekrom, Xerneas, and Zacian-C, all of which can threaten Yveltal and Ho-Oh. Slurpuff should almost always be used as the lead, unless the opponent has a counter like Excadrill or a multi-hit attacker like Pheromosa.
Toucannon (SM competitive strategy): A high Attack stat, a powerful STAB move in Brave Bird, and solid coverage moves such as Bullet Seed, Knock Off, and Brick Break allow Toucannon to break through various walls in the ZU metagame. It also has a pretty passable Special Attack stat, allowing it to use moves like Overheat. With access to Bullet Seed in particular, it can break through Golem, which many other attackers in the tier struggle to do. However, its base 60 Speed tier isn't the best to have and leaves it outsped by a lot of Pokemon, such as Electivire, Floatzel, and Zebstrika. In particular, most Volt Switch users outspeed Toucannon and can easily force it out. It's pretty frail as well, and with its Stealth Rock weakness and reliance on recoil moves, it can get worn down quite quickly. Lastly, it faces competition with Pokemon such as Choice Band Komala and Electivire as a wallbreaker, the former due to its much greater bulk and immunity to status and the latter for its great ability in Motor Drive, significantly better coverage, and much better Speed. Bullet Seed is used against bulky Rock- and Water-types such as Pyukumuku and Golem, breaking through the latter's Sturdy ability. It can also break through Focus Sash on Pokemon such as Kadabra and benefit from Skill Link. Knock Off allows Toucannon to get rid of items such as Eviolite from Pokemon like Bronzor and Mareanie, allowing them to be worn down far more easily. It can also 2HKO common Bronzor variants. U-turn uses Toucannon's offensive presence to gain momentum for its team. Alternatively, Overheat can be used to hit Mawile and weakened Grass-types such as Torterra and Gourgeist-XL when attempting to avoid recoil. Brick Break can also be used to hit Probopass, which otherwise completely walls this set. Skill Link is the ability of choice to enable Bullet Seed to hit five times, allowing it to viably break down targets of the move. An Adamant nature allows Toucannon to always OHKO Gourgeist-XL after Stealth Rock, as well as hit Altaria after it has used Roost due to Toucannon's low Speed. On the other hand, a Jolly nature allows Toucannon to outspeed Altaria before it can use Roost, though it is much less effective at wallbreaking. A Naughty or Naive nature can be used if Overheat is used in the fourth moveslot as to not lower its damage output when compared to Jolly or Adamant. 29 HP IVs give Toucannon the benefit of less recoil damage from Life Orb and less damage from Stealth Rock. This set's main use is to break down common walls in the ZU metagame such as Gourgeist-XL, Golem, and Bronzor to open holes in the opponent's team, which its teammates can take advantage of. Due to its mediocre Speed tier and bulk, it really needs the opportunity to be safely switched in. This can be done via Volt Switch or U-turn with Pokemon such as Probopass or Silvally-Fighting. Toucannon should use U-turn when you predict a Steel-type to switch in. It can then bring in a Magnet Pull user like Probopass or Alolan Golem to get rid of said Steel-types, which can be used to make Brave Bird usage more free for Toucannon. To safely switch Toucannon in, it needs a U-turn or Volt Switch user. Probopass and Alolan Golem in particular are able to bring Toucannon in safely with a slow Volt Switch while also being able to trap Steel-types such as Mawile with Magnet Pull. A Pokemon that can effectively check Electric-types, such as Electivire, Golem, or Silvally-Ground, is key, as Toucannon has an overall bad matchup with Pokemon of that type. Due to Toucannon's low Speed and below average bulk, it appreciates having bulky teammates that can take on offensive threats in the metagame more easily. Examples of these include Silvally-Water, Muk, and Bronzor. Sticky Web setters such as Shuckle and Smeargle allow Toucannon to somewhat circumvent its mediocre Speed. However, one must note that Toucannon fails to outspeed threats such as Zebstrika and Floatzel after Sticky Web, even with a Jolly nature. Toucannon has a decently sized movepool that includes some alternative options. A specially based mixed attacker set can be used with Boomburst, Heat Wave, Brave Bird, and Bullet Seed, allowing it to wallbreak without having to rely too much on Brave Bird, but this suffers from a worse matchup with Probopass and Bronzor. A Choice Scarf set can be utilized to let Toucannon do better against a lot of offensive threats in the metagame, but its Speed tier even with a Choice Scarf is underwhelming, and it fails to outspeed a lot of other common Choice Scarf users like Electivire. Most notably, it fails to outspeed particularly fast offensive threats like Floatzel and Zebstrika. Rock Blast offers coverage against Rotom-S, Crustle, and Shuckle and does better overall damage to Altaria. Roost can be used to heal off some recoil damage from Brave Bird and Life Orb from Toucannon, but Toucannon's frailty makes it a risky option, especially when it requires giving up one of Toucannon's coverage moves. Flyinium Z can be used to make Brave Bird into a powerful Supersonic Skystrike that lacks recoil but makes its other moves weaker overall. Swords Dance can be used to make Toucannon even stronger, but it is much too slow and frail to effectively set up. Lastly, Choice Band allows Toucannon to hit insanely hard but makes it very prediction reliant as well.
Toucannon (SV competitive strategy): Toucannon is a final-round pick that serves as a niche wallbreaker and late-game cleaner, but it fails to do so effectively in most cases. Boasting a high Attack, it can certainly break many defensive cores with its moves that make use of Skill Link, and it can be a nuisance with Beak Blast and Knock Off. Unfortunately, despite its colorful movepool and great utility moves, its poor bulk and disappointing Speed tier do not allow it to make any use of them. It should only be drafted as a final pick if the draft functions well without it, since it's realistically going to warm up the bench in most games. Toucannon is exclusively an offensive Pokemon and fits on teams that are self-sufficient without it. It can have a few favorable matchups, but that requires a lot of smart pivoting to get it in safely, and these favorable matchups are few and far between.
Zeraora (SM competitive strategy): Zeraora is a potent offensive threat in UU by virtue of its decent mixed offenses, outstanding Speed, and access to a powerful physical Electric-type move in Plasma Fists. Thanks to its aforementioned Speed, it can outrun and threaten some of the tier's fastest threats, including Mega Manectric, Latias, Gengar, and Starmie. Its vast coverage movepool allows it to hit several conventional Electric-type checks like Hydreigon and Hippowdon with moves like Close Combat and Grass Knot, making it a solid mixed wallbreaker. It can also attempt to sweep with Bulk Up thanks to its ability to power through several bulkier threats with either Gigavolt Havoc or Breakneck Blitz, as well as its Speed allowing it to limit the number of Pokemon capable of revenge killing it. Unfortunately, Zeraora's pitiful defenses and weak typing limit its opportunities to come into play on its own and prevent it from reliably checking Pokemon that other Electric-types can often handle well, such as Scizor and Togekiss. Its lack of immediate power causes it to rely on Life Orb for damage output on some sets, damaging its longevity in the process. This also makes Zeraora more prediction reliant in order to adequately punish its switch-ins. Zeraora struggles to fit all of its desired coverage moves on its setup sets, meaning that they will always fail to hit at least one key target hard. Because of these downsides, Zeraora faces competition from other Electric-types like Rotom-H and Mega Manectric, which can more reliably fulfill their roles due to being less hard pressed to fit coverage on their sets and having better defensive utility. Close Combat is essential in covering a few Pokemon capable of coming in on Plasma Fists, such as Hydreigon, Krookodile, Mamoswine, and Mega Steelix. Grass Knot hits the majority of Ground-types not already hit hard by Close Combat, such as Hippowdon, Swampert, and Seismitoad, for respectable damage. Knock Off hits Latias, which otherwise walls Zeraora, for a 2HKO on the switch while also removing the items of switch-ins like Gligar, Amoonguss, and Nidoqueen. Volt Switch is an option over Knock Off for its ability to pivot Zeraora out of play. It is important, however, to note that it will come at the cost of being able to punish Gligar and Amoonguss and hitting Latias hard. Hidden Power Ice is an option for hitting Ground-types like Gligar, Nidoqueen, and Nidoking harder than Zeraora's other attacks. However, Knock Off can still annoy these foes while allowing Zeraora to do much more meaningful damage to Psychic-types like Latias and Celebi. Work Up is an option for allowing Zeraora to increase its offensive presence to become a more threatening sweeper. However, it is often difficult to find room for due to sacrificing coverage. Life Orb provides Zeraora's attacks with a necessary boost in power, allowing it to achieve feats such as 2HKOing Mega Steelix with Close Combat after one layer of Spikes and 2HKOing Hippowdon with Grass Knot. Expert Belt lets Zeraora hit super effective targets almost as hard as Life Orb without cutting into its HP. However, it will be unable to damage targets hit by its moves neutrally, such as Infernape and Scizor, nearly as reliably. Shuca Berry is also an option for allowing Zeraora to tank one Ground-type hit from a foe like Mega Aerodactyl or Choice Scarf Krookodile and retaliate with powerful attacks. Volt Absorb is Zeraora's only available ability, though it can allow Zeraora to come in on predicted Electric-type attacks from Rotom-C, Mega Manectric, and Rotom-H to restore health. A Naive nature is preferred for preventing Zeraora from taking too heavy of damage from Bullet Punch as it tries revenge killing Scizor, though a Hasty nature is also an option if the rest of the team adequately accounts for Scizor. This set's main function is as a fast mixed wallbreaker capable of punching holes in opposing teams early- or mid-game. However, if Zeraora is still healthy at the end of the match and Plasma Fists switch-ins are weakened or removed, it can attempt cleaning up thanks to its high Speed. Due to its poor bulk and typing, Zeraora should almost never switch into foes directly, instead coming into play with support from a pivot or after a teammate has fainted. Prediction is vital in reliably securing various KOs for Zeraora. For instance, if a Ground-type like Hippowdon or Swampert is likely to switch in on an expected Plasma Fists, Zeraora should try nailing them with Grass Knot as they come in, sufficiently weakening them. Due to its Speed, Zeraora can be used to revenge kill weakened sweepers like Cobalion, Mega Houndoom, and Latias. However, it should be wary of revenge killing setup sweepers that often carry priority, such as Scizor, Bisharp, Infernape, and Lucario, as after a boost these threats will likely be able to wear Zeraora down immensely or pick it off if it's weakened enough. If Volt Switch is being used, Zeraora should use the attack on predicted switches into foes it can't reliably break through, like Mega Altaria and Amoonguss, in order to chip them while generating momentum. While Zeraora's typing can allow it to tank a hit or two from foes like Togekiss, Scizor, and Crobat, it should never be used primarily as a check to these Pokemon due to its poor longevity. This is further compounded by the Life Orb recoil it may sustain, making it often only an offensive answer. If Shuca Berry is being run, Zeraora should use it to either tank a hit from a faster foe like Mega Aerodactyl or Krookodile while retaliating with super effective hits or inflict damage on a slower Ground-type like Hippowdon or Mega Steelix while stomaching an Earthquake. Due to Zeraora's high Speed, good offenses, and lack of defensive qualities it can provide, it fits best on offensively inclined teams. Entry hazard setters like Nihilego, Cobalion, and Mamoswine can help Zeraora secure a few vital KOs with extra chip damage, such as the OHKO on Chandelure with Knock Off after Stealth Rock and, if Zeraora is running Shuca Berry, the guaranteed 2HKO on Krookodile with Grass Knot. Klefki can be particularly helpful, more reliably chipping Ground-types with Spikes damage while slowing Choice Scarf users down with Prankster Thunder Wave. Entry hazard removal from Pokemon like Hydreigon, Mega Blastoise, and Tsareena can also be useful to Zeraora in order to minimize its chances of taking unnecessary residual damage. Zeraora also appreciates support from pivots like Hydreigon, Scizor, and Moltres that can reliably bring it into play. If running Volt Switch, Zeraora can also form VoltTurn cores with the aforementioned examples. Sturdy Dragon-type checks like Primarina and Doublade can also be helpful to circumvent a few Pokemon Zeraora can at times struggle breaking past, like Mega Altaria and Latias. Secondary checks to Pokemon like Scizor and Togekiss, like Cobalion and Mega Aerodactyl, respectively, can help alleviate the longevity issues Zeraora may run into trying to check these threats on its own. Setup sweepers such as Celebi, Bisharp, and Infernape appreciate Zeraora's ability to punch holes in opposing teams for them to more easily sweep late-game. Pokemon that appreciate various Water- and Flying-types getting weakened, such as Scizor, Krookodile, and Terrakion, also enjoy the support Zeraora can provide. If it's running Volt Switch, Zeraora can greatly aid frailer teammates like Gengar and Crawdaunt by more easily bringing them into play. With Grass Knot, it can also support Pokemon that appreciate the weakening of Ground-types, such as Mega Beedrill and Mega Aerodactyl, by luring in and damaging the likes of Hippowdon and Swampert. Bulk Up turns Zeraora into a formidable sweeper, boosting its Attack enough for it to OHKO Infernape with Plasma Fists and its Defense enough for it to survive Earthquake from Gligar. Close Combat is important for covering various foes that could otherwise easily stomach a boosted Plasma Fists, such as Hydreigon, Cobalion, and Stakataka, while also hitting some Ground-types like Mamoswine and Krookodile super effectively. Knock Off hits foes like Latias, Doublade, and Celebi super effectively while removing items from typical switch-ins such as Gligar and defensive Rotom-H. Giga Impact in tandem with Normalium Z delivers a powerful blow to several otherwise safe answers to Zeraora, such as Mega Altaria, Hippowdon, and Latias, after a boost. It also hits a lot of Knock Off targets, such as Gligar and Celebi, for respectable damage. Grass Knot is an option on this set for reliably dealing super effective damage to most Ground-types, though it gives up valuable coverage and can be an undesirable option on a physically based set. Bounce is also an option alongside Flyinium Z to lure in and KO Grass-type checks like Chesnaught and Amoonguss. However, the move costs coverage and is quite situational, and the aforementioned targets are already hit decently hard by Breakneck Blitz. Electrium Z grants access to Gigavolt Havoc, which when boosted allows Zeraora to more easily muscle past several foes, including Mega Aggron, Mega Slowbro, and Diancie. Shuca Berry is also an option for more easily taking on various Ground-type foes, like Krookodile and Hippowdon, if another teammate is using a Z-Move. Normalium Z gives Zeraora the ability to utilize Breakneck Blitz to severely dent several conventional checks, like Amoonguss and Nidoking, after a boost. While Volt Absorb is the only ability available to Zeraora, it can be useful in switching into a predicted Electric-type attack from Mega Manectric or Rotom-H to restore health, although this strategy is often quite risky. If Zeraora happens to be running Grass Knot, a Naive nature is preferred so as not to decrease its Special Attack. This set's function is as a sweeper capable of cleaning up late-game once its checks have been removed or weakened. However, with Normalium Z, it can also double as a lure to several of Zeraora's otherwise solid checks, like Mega Altaria, Amoonguss, and several Ground-types. Due to its frailty, Zeraora should only come in after a teammate has fainted or with support from a pivoting teammate. It should be brought in on foes it can force out, such as Primarina and Starmie, in order to find opportunities to set up. Zeraora can also attempt setup against foes like Rotom-H and Latias after they have used moves like Overheat and Draco Meteor, respectively. While on paper it could switch in on opposing Electric-types or resisted attacks to set up, its susceptibility to coverage and chip damage often makes this an unreliable strategy. Electrium Z should be activated to deal heavy damage to bulky Pokemon that would otherwise tank a hit or two from Zeraora and possibly cripple it, like Mega Aggron and Mega Slowbro. If Normalium Z is being used, it should be activated after a boost to dent targets that would otherwise take minimal damage from even boosted hits, like Amoonguss, Celebi, Gligar, and Mega Altaria. Conserving Zeraora's HP in order to allow it to reliably sweep is important, meaning it should rarely be brought out before setting up unless it is needed to revenge kill an opposing Pokemon. This set fits well on offensive teams thanks to its ability to sweep late-game. Entry hazard support from teammates like Chesnaught, Mega Aggron, and Nidoking can be useful for allowing Zeraora to more easily sweep, notably allowing it to OHKO offensive Mega Altaria sets with +1 Breakneck Blitz after minimal chip damage. Pivots are also helpful to Zeraora for reliably bringing it into play, making the likes of U-turn Hydreigon and Infernape good options for teammates. Sturdy Ground-type answers like Tsareena and Celebi are important for removing or chipping them into range of a boosted Breakneck Blitz. Wallbreakers like Gengar, Kyurem, and Volcanion can all break past several of the physically bulky Pokemon Zeraora would have trouble dealing with on its own, like Gligar, Hippowdon, and Mega Steelix. Choice Scarf users like Krookodile and Nihilego could also be useful teammates to Zeraora due to the presence of a few faster Pokemon capable of pressuring it, such as Mega Aerodactyl and Mega Beedrill. Fire Punch hits Scizor 4x effectively, but it has few uses outside of this and thus ends up costing Zeraora more valuable coverage most of the time. Iron Tail is also an option for hitting Mega Altaria, Sylveon, and Florges hard, though this also ends up denying Zeraora access to more useful coverage moves. Drain Punch is an option on the Bulk Up set for restoring Zeraora's health, but Zeraora often requires the power Close Combat will provide. Zeraora can pull off a Calm Mind set due to its solid special movepool, though it often struggles breaking past as much of the metagame or its conventional checks with such a set compared to Bulk Up. Choice Band is an option for allowing Zeraora to function as an adequate physical wallbreaker. However, Zeraora's other sets are easier to put to consistent use, and it also dislikes locking itself into most of its attacks.
Zeraora (SS competitive strategy): Zeraora is one of the best offensive pivots in the OU metagame thanks to its blistering Speed tier combined with access to Knock Off and Close Combat, which allows it to threaten a majority of the metagame while forcing progress. Furthermore, because of its unparalleled Speed tier, it can revenge kill the likes of Dragapult, Weavile, and Tornadus-T. Zeraora can also act as a Volt Switch absorber thanks to its ability Volt Absorb; because of this, it can easily deter other Volt Switch users such as Tapu Koko, Zapdos, and opposing Zeraora from using the move and take advantage of them to generate momentum or force progress. Unfortunately, Zeraora is pretty frail, meaning that it can't afford to switch into most attacks unlike other Electric-types like Tapu Koko, which can check Pokemon like Tornadus-T more consistently due to its reliable recovery. Zeraora also has to rely on crippling and wearing down Ground-types like Landorus-T and Garchomp, as it cannot bypass them itself; this hurts its pivoting ability in the process. Bulk Up Zeraora is a very dangerous wincon. Its unparalleled Speed tier allowing it to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame alongside its amazing coverage makes Zeraora extremely hard to deal with and revenge kill once it has enough boosts, and its ability to force out common Pokemon such as Slowking, Corviknight, and Tornadus-T gives it many setup opportunities. Knock Off is important for hitting Dragapult super effectively. Close Combat is great for hitting targets such as Hydreigon, Heatran, and Ferrothorn for super effective damage, as they would otherwise resist or take very little damage from both its aforementioned moves. Bulk Up Zeraora mainly fits on offensive teams, as the support offensive teams provide for Zeraora such as entry hazards and pivoting can give it more setup opportunities. Dual screens Tapu Koko is a great partner for it, as not only do the dual screens and pivoting support give Zeraora more setup opportunities, but also the Electric Terrain increases the power of Plasma Fists, making it harder to wall. Suicide leads such as Landorus-T and Mew are very useful partners for Zeraora, as the hazards they provide can allow Zeraora to apply more pressure to the opposing team. Rillaboom is an excellent partner for Bulk Up Zeraora, as Grassy Terrain halves the power of Earthquake from the likes of Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Hippowdon; furthermore, Rillaboom can revenge kill Excadrill in sand, while Zeraora can heavily pressure Pokemon that Rillaboom may struggle with, such as Corviknight, Dragapult, and Skarmory. Knock Off allows Zeraora to cripple the likes of Landorus-T, Garchomp, Swampert, and Ferrothorn by removing their much needed item, especially Leftovers, making it easier for them to be worn down due to their lack of reliable recovery. Close Combat hits Pokemon that resist all of its other moves such as Hydreigon, Kartana, Excadrill, and Ferrothorn for super effective damage. Toxic allows Zeraora to wear down Pokemon such as the aforementioned Landorus-T and Garchomp as well as Tangrowth that can reliably switch into its STAB move. However, Toxic can be replaced with Volt Switch, which gives Zeraora the option to pivot out from an unfavorable matchup versus Pokemon like Ferrothorn and Tangrowth. Zeraora commonly fits best on offensive and balance teams, as its consistency with providing offensive momentum while also being able to revenge kill and clean late-game thanks to its amazing Speed and primary STAB move makes it fit onto these teams well. Pokemon such as Tornadus-T, Landorus-T, and Scizor are great teammates, as they form a potent VoltTurn core with it; the former two in particular are able to wear down Ground-types that Zeraora struggles with with Hurricane and Toxic, respectively. On the other hand, Zeraora can pivot against Grass-types to bring in Tornadus-T and Scizor and provide an Electric immunity for Tornadus-T. Pokemon that can cover Zeraora's disadvantageous matchup versus Ground-types such as Slowbro, Corviknight, and Ferrothorn while providing utility in Future Sight, slow pivoting, and Spikes respectively make for great teammates. Zeraora's ability to consistently take advantage of Pokemon such as Corviknight, Slowking, and Toxapex due to their fear of being OHKOed by its STAB move makes it a great partner for Pokemon like Rillaboom, Nidoking, and Tornadus-T that generally struggle with these foes. Pokemon that appreciate Zeraora's ability to provide offensive momentum against Grass-types via Volt Switch such as Tapu Lele are very useful teammates, as they can heavily threaten them out. Future Sight support from Slowking and Slowbro is very beneficial, as Ground-types will be more pressured and easily worn down. Blaze Kick can be used over Close Combat to hit Scizor super effectively and easily 2HKO Ferrothorn; however, with this move, Zeraora loses its ability to pressure Hydreigon. Grass Knot can be used in order to hit Ground-types such as Swampert, Hippowdon, and Gastrodon for super effective damage, though it has little use elsewhere.
Zeraora (SV competitive strategy): A blistering Speed tier, above-average offenses, and potent offensive typing make Zeraora an effective pivot and revenge killer in the tier, threatening important targets in Thundurus, Enamorus and Alakazam. Additionally, Zeraora packs significant utility options in Knock Off and Volt Switch that can capitalize on the aforementioned traits and even allow it to make long-term progress against a majority of defensive targets, such as Swampert and Rotom-W. Toxic is usually Zeraora's preferred move in the last slot, allowing it to stifle specific Pokemon that are otherwise able to heal off and withstand its attacks, such as Mega Latias and Hippowdon. Alternatively, Zeraora can also make use of Close Combat to pose an immediate threat to most Steel- and Dark-type Pokemon, such as Excadrill, Hydreigon, and Tyranitar. On the other hand, Grass Knot is an alternative that puts immediate pressure on Hippowdon and Quagsire, though it becomes more difficult for Zeraora to break through several of the aforementioned targets in Mega Latias, Hydreigon, and Excadrill. An Adamant nature maximizes Zeraora's power, ensuring it can secure the OHKO against threats such as Galarian Moltres and Autotomize Celesteela with Plasma Fists. However, a Jolly nature allows Zeraora to outspeed Adamant Mega Aerodactyl. Heavy-Duty Boots ensures Zeraora isn't hampered by entry hazards. Zeraora fits best on bulkier teams that appreciate its proficiency in revenge killing offensive threats while possessing added longevity and the ability to generate momentum. Defensive staples such as Slowking appreciate Zeraora's ability to force out Pokemon that may threaten them, like Life Orb Mienshao. In return, Slowking can use Future Sight to pressure Pokemon that would otherwise be able to stave off Zeraora's attacks, such as Buzzwole and Mega Venusaur. Similarly, slower wallbreakers like Choice Specs Enamorus, Nasty Plot Hydreigon, and Choice Band Tyranitar appreciate Zeraora's ability to scare out faster Pokemon while also benefitting from the safe switch-in opportunities provided by Volt Switch. While Zeraora's offensive matchups are impressive, it can struggle to contain many offensive threats that are capable of boosting their Speed, such as Sand Rush Excadrill, Booster Energy Iron Boulder, and Autotomize Celesteela. Thus, specific defensive checks to these Pokemon such as defensive Celesteela, Slowbro, and Thunder Wave Clefable are highly appreciated.
Hatterene (SS competitive strategy): Hatterene is an imposing Calm Mind user for defensive teams to deal with because its ability Magic Bounce deflects status moves such as Toxic and Thunder Wave, as well as phazing attempts. Hatterene's STAB moves complement each other brilliantly and, alongside Mystical Fire, give it good matchups against entry hazard setters such as Swampert and Skarmory to block their hazards with Magic Bounce and keep pressure off of its teammates. Hatterene's solid bulk lets it take on threatens that can even hit it super effectively like Scizor. Hatterene's typing, while offensively potent, makes it a Fairy-type that's hit neutrally by Dark-type moves and a Psychic-type weak to Poison. This greatly impedes Hatterene's ability to consistently handle Pokemon such as Hydreigon and makes it unreliable at pressuring Tentacruel and Nihilego. It also struggles to beat Steel-types such as Jirachi and Celesteela if it does not catch them with Mystical Fire on the switch. Without a Calm Mind boost, Hatterene noticeably lacks offensive presence, which can be taken advantage of by wallbreakers such as Diggersby and Choice Specs Primarina. While it does have some good matchups against some hazard setters, it also has poor ones, such as against Hippowdon and Nidoqueen, so it can require prediction to make the most out of Magic Bounce. Excadrill is a hazard setter that not only forces out Hatterene but can completely ignore Magic Bounce thanks to Mold Breaker. Hatterene's dismal Speed tier greatly limits what it can accomplish against offensive teams. Hatterene has plenty of opportunities to gain a Calm Mind boost against various Pokemon such as Mandibuzz and Salamence. Calm Mind notably helps Hatterene stomach hits from strong attackers such as Choice Specs Keldeo better and retaliate with Draining Kiss. Draining Kiss is mandatory as a powerful recovery tool and is instrumental against Chansey; after three boosts, Draining Kiss + Leftovers will outheal Seismic Toss's damage. Psyshock is useful against opposing Calm Mind users, most notably Primarina, as well as a more immediate weapon against Chansey. Psychic is an alternative option because it OHKOes Amoonguss after one Calm Mind boost instead of two. It also helps Hatterene pressure Quagsire better with Special Defense drops. Mystical Fire is vital to deter Steel-types looking to come in on a Calm Mind or STAB move like Celesteela, Jirachi, and Scizor. Leftovers augments the recovery from Draining Kiss and makes Hatterene harder for Pokemon such as Suicune to wear down. Hatterene needs 12 EVs in Speed to outrun Amoonguss and 56 EVs to outspeed Quagsire and help against stall, though Psychic is required for the latter Pokemon. Hatterene fits well on balance and bulky offense teams that appreciate its Magic Bounce relieving entry hazard pressure from Skarmory. Pokemon that handle hazard setters Hatterene cannot switch into well like Nidoqueen, Jirachi, and Nihilego are appreciated. Chansey and Celesteela are able to check them. Celesteela can also pivot into Excadrill. Hazard support from teammates such as Krookodile and Chansey wears down Hatterene checks such as Scizor and Celesteela. Fire-types can blow through Steel-types that Hatterene has issues with; Rotom-H and Moltres are notably able to check Scizor and take advantage of Celesteela. Amoonguss and Skarmory can act as secondary pivots into Conkeldurr as repeatedly taking hits from them and losing its Leftovers greatly diminishes Hatterene's ability to clean with Calm Mind. On Trick Room teams, Hatterene is an effective suicide lead with Focus Sash and Misty Explosion. Magic Bounce denies entry hazards from everything bar Excadrill, and using Misty Explosion right after Trick Room gives a safe entry point for teammates such as Crawdaunt with three turns of Trick Room still remaining. Hatterene can also be an offensive threat in Trick Room with Life Orb, but this sacrifices a lot of consistency in defensive utility because of its need for Special Attack investment and Life Orb recoil. Assault Vest alongside Nuzzle is an option to make Hatterene more bulky without a boost while still crippling the likes of Jirachi, but it faces stiff competition from Reuniclus, which has more consistent healing with Regenerator and better bulk to handle threats such as Keldeo.
Hatterene (SV competitive strategy): With the combination of Magic Bounce, good physical bulk, and utility options such as Pain Split to stick around longer, Hatterene provides key entry hazard control while checking important threats like Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Deoxys-S. Psychic Noise is used to block recovery attempts from walls like Clefable and Garganacl, threaten foes through Substitute like Zamazenta and Iron Moth, and temporarily inhibit Gliscor's Poison Heal. Draining Kiss is additional recovery and meaningfully chips Dark-types like Ting-Lu and Hisuian Samurott, as well as Dragon-types like Dragonite and Raging Bolt. Pain Split allows Hatterene to both gain back health and wear down high-HP walls like Blissey and Ting-Lu while chipping foes like Iron Treads and Galarian Slowking that it can otherwise struggle to damage. Nuzzle lets Hatterene spread paralysis against foes that would otherwise have an easy time switching in like Gholdengo and Iron Crown, giving its teammates more opportunities to capitalize. It also deters sweepers like Ogerpon-W and Dragonite from setting up in front of it. Rocky Helmet allows Hatterene to punish Rapid Spin attempts from Great Tusk and Iron Treads, and it can also punish Hisuian Samurott's Ceaseless Edge and U-turn from pivots like Landorus-T and Cinderace. Leftovers can also be used to gain additional longevity, making Hatterene even more difficult to take out. Tera Water gives Hatterene an easier matchup against Cinderace while turning its Steel-type weakness into a resistance against Gholdengo and Iron Crown, with the added bonus of letting it more reliably take on Walking Wake and hit it with Nuzzle. 52 Speed EVs are to outspeed Garganacl and Toxapex, letting Hatterene use Psychic Noise effectively to block their recovery attempts. Hatterene is used on bulky offense and offense teams as an entry hazard control option while improving the matchup against specific foes like Zamazenta. Teammates weak to hazards like Assault Vest Tornadus-T, Kyurem, and non–Heavy-Duty Boots Dragonite appreciate Hatterene being solid hazard control, while Hatterene benefits from their offensive and defensive capabilities like threatening Iron Treads. Assault Vest Tornadus-T is an exceptional partner, aiding Hatterene against threats like Darkrai, Gholdengo, and Choice Specs Dragapult. Tornadus-T notably helps against Great Tusk, which Hatterene has issues taking repeated hits from. Heatran provides a useful switch-in against Scizor, Iron Moth, and Pecharunt while also setting its own hazards, with Hatterene in return taking on Zamazenta and Ting-Lu. Both Assault Vest Tornadus-T and Heatran are also able to pressure Hatterene's checks like Galarian Slowking and Corviknight. Iron Moth is another teammate that greatly threatens Steel-types like Gholdengo while also absorbing Toxic Spikes that can immensely limit Hatterene's longevity. In return, Hatterene helps keep hazards off the field for Iron Moth. Hatterene struggles to get past Steel-types like Iron Treads, Heatran, and Tinkaton, as they are able to threaten it and still set Stealth Rock after it is KOed. Thus, strong Fighting- and Ground-types like Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Ting-Lu are helpful to maintain hazard superiority. Zamazenta notably appreciates Hatterene for providing a solid Psychic-type switch-in against Deoxys-S and can also run non–Heavy-Duty Boots sets more freely, while Zamazenta can handle Steel-types like Kingambit. Ghost-types like Gholdengo and Pecharunt pose a similar threat to Hatterene, so Dark-types like Kingambit and Darkrai are useful to threaten immense damage onto them, while the Dark-types benefit from Hatterene staving off non–Heavy Slam Zamazenta. Additional hazard control options like Great Tusk and Cinderace are heavily appreciated to relieve pressure on Hatterene against certain hazard setters like Hisuian Samurott. Moreover, they also help against Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking, which Hatterene struggles to get past and is threatened by. Ogerpon-W pressures Hatterene's checks like Galarian Slowking and Gholdengo with Knock Off, sets hazards, and pivots Hatterene in with U-turn. Hatterene, in turn, checks physical walls like Galarian Weezing and Zamazenta, keeps hazards off for Ogerpon-W, and paralyzes faster threats like Cinderace for it to take advantage of. With Magic Bounce and the potential for it to snowball out of control with Calm Mind while keeping itself healthy with Draining Kiss, Hatterene makes a great addition to offensive teams looking for a special sweeper and hazard control in one. Its solid defensive stats grant it great matchups against Great Tusk, Ting-Lu, and non-Heavy Slam Zamazenta, and Magic Bounce's additional utility lets Hatterene block disruptive moves like Encore from Iron Valiant and Ogerpon-W, Taunt from Landorus-T and Heatran, Whirlwind from Ting-Lu, and Toxic from Gliscor and Clodsire, making it an even more potent setup sweeper. Psychic Noise is a strong option to punish walls like Gliscor, Garganacl, and Clefable, looking to recover in the face of Hatterene. Psyshock targets specially defensive walls on their weaker side, allowing it to break through Blissey, Galarian Slowking, and Clodsire while dealing with opposing setup sweepers that boost their Special Defense such as Tera Fairy Raging Bolt. Alternatively, Stored Power lacks the immediate power of Psyshock but can scale heavily with multiple Calm Minds to allow Hatterene to muscle past even Unaware targets like Skeledirge, Clodsire, and Dondozo, along with also helping to win the one-on-one against other special setup sweepers in a similar manner to Psyshock. Unfortunately, its STAB combination leaves Hatterene walled by common Steel-types like Gholdengo, Heatran, and Iron Treads, while the low base power of Draining Kiss allows for Kingambit to easily stomach a boosted hit. Mystical Fire is a great coverage option that targets Steel-types, in particular helping to weaken Gholdengo's attacks, although this leaves Hatterene unable to hit Heatran; Nuzzle can alternatively be used to spread paralysis onto common switch-ins like Kingambit, Gholdengo, Heatran, and Skeledirge. Leftovers is Hatterene's best option to greatly improve its staying power, allowing it to set up more easily and switch in multiple times over the course of a game to block hazards. On Grassy Terrain teams and particularly with Stored Power, Grassy Seed can be considered to give Hatterene a better chance at immediately sweeping at the expense of being worse at coming in repeatedly, though Leftovers is still a viable option on these builds. The given spread runs enough Speed EVs to outspeed base 35s Pokemon like Garganacl and Toxapex, allowing for Hatterene to use a boosted attack before the latter can remove its boosts with Haze, with the remaining EVs invested to maximize physical defense. This allows for Hatterene to dodge the 2HKO from Cinderace's Pyro Ball for instance. An alternative spread of 252 HP / 232 Def / 24 Spe can be considered on Nuzzle variants, as the Speed is less necessary when it is able to paralyze foes and so more physical bulk can be invested instead; this spread runs enough Speed to outpace a paralyzed Adamant Kingambit. Tera Water is a great neutral defensive typing that grants Hatterene a resistance to Steel-type attacks from Kingambit and Gholdengo along with allowing it to stay in on Water- and Fire-type attacks from Pokemon like Hisuian Samurott and Iron Moth while still maintaining its matchup against Great Tusk. Calm Mind Hatterene is a great pick on offense teams that appreciate the support against entry hazards, particularly for bulkier offense builds without a dedicated hazard setting lead. One particular form of bulky offense that Hatterene thrives on is Grassy Terrain with Rillaboom, with the additional passive recovery from the Terrain being much appreciated to help boost Hatterene's longevity further. In return, Hatterene can keep hazards clear from the field, allowing for teammates like Heatran, Raging Bolt, and Rillaboom itself to opt not to run Heavy-Duty Boots without fearing hazard damage racking up over time. Hatterene fits on far more than Terrain offense though, finding a home on even hyper offense teams alongside hazard setters like Glimmora, and some of its best partners on both bulky offense and hyper offense are offensive hazard-weak Pokemon that would sooner run a boosting item than Heavy-Duty Boots; prime examples of this are Raging Bolt and Ogerpon-W. Though Hatterene has ways of dealing with some of its more problematic matchups, Kingambit and Gholdengo are always an issue for their ability to shrug off its STAB attacks and threaten it with their own; bulky, offensive switch-ins to the former like Great Tusk and Zamazenta can alleviate this issue without dropping offensive pressure, while Kingambit itself can make a strong partner for its ability to come in on Gholdengo along with other Ghost- and Poison-type moves from foes like Dragapult and Galarian Slowking, the latter of which being one of Hatterene's most prevalent checks with its high Special Defense and resistance to Draining Kiss. In return for Kingambit's positive matchups against these targets, Hatterene resists Fighting-type attacks from Great Tusk, Skarmory, and Iron Valiant that would typically be directed towards Kingambit. One Pokemon that Hatterene struggles to break through is Heatran, as it takes negligible damage from even a boosted Draining Kiss and can negate Hatterene's Leftovers recovery with Magma Storm's passive damage. If Hatterene has Tera available and has already boosted with multiple Calm Minds as Heatran enters the field, the matchup swings in Hatterene's favour, but Hatterene is notably unable to come in directly on Heatran to prevent it from setting up Stealth Rock. Offensive partners like Hisuian Samurott and Zamazenta can be used as switch-ins to Magma Storm, able to threaten the opposing Heatran out. Although Hatterene is usually sufficient in keeping hazards off of its side of the field, on top of the aforementioned Stealth Rock Heatran matchup, opposing Hisuian Samurott are able to put hazards up with Ceaseless Edge despite losing to Hatterene itself. This makes alternative forms of hazard removal such as Great Tusk and Iron Treads good partners to Hatterene, as they can provide key relief in these matchups for hazard-weak teams that would otherwise be overly reliant on Hatterene. Through a coveted combination of Healing Wish, an elite ability in Magic Bounce, and good defensive typing to check foes like Great Tusk and non-Heavy Slam Zamazenta, Hatterene can support its teammates in a way that cannot be fully replicated by anything else. Healing Wish is crucial, as it allows Hatterene to enable support its teammates and give them a second life to put in work; because Hatterene is often paired with sweepers and Terrain or weather setters that enable them, this is often a perfectly acceptable trade to pivot them in safely. Psychic Noise notably lets Hatterene significantly chip bulky foes like Gliscor, Garganacl, and Clefable, preventing them from recovering their health. Nuzzle ensures that Hatterene remains far from passive by paralyzing anything bar Ground-types and Electric-types; even Gholdengo and opposing Hatterene, which are safe from paralysis from Thunder Wave, are crippled if hit by Nuzzle. Mystical Fire, however, complements Hatterene's STAB moves well by hitting Steel-types super effectively; it also always lowers the opponent's Special Attack, giving it some added utility against threats that can boost their Special Attack like Calm Mind Raging Bolt. Eject Button lets Hatterene act as a pivot, particularly because it complements Magic Bounce perfectly; Hatterene's mere presence on a team will deter opponents from setting entry hazards and using status moves, letting it take on an attack and bring a teammate in safely. Eject Button also has the added benefit of turning the tables on U-turn and Volt Switch users, getting a free momentum while denying their own switch. However, Custap Berry is also an option to take advantage of its propensity to be at low health, compensating for its lack of Speed to gain a free turn against even faster foes. 52 Speed EVs allow Hatterene to outpace base 35s Pokemon like Toxapex and Garganacl. Tera Steel allows Hatterene to handle Fairy-type attacks from Iron Valiant and Enamorus more easily so it can punish them with Nuzzle and turns Hatterene's Poison weakness into an immunity, allowing it to take on Galarian Slowking and spinblock Glimmora. Steel's powerful defensive profile also expands the number of threats Hatterene can safely use Healing Wish against in a pinch, such as Iron Head Kingambit and Galarian Slowking; though very situational, other Tera types like Dark and Flying can accomplish similar goals against different threats like Gholdengo and Dragapult for the former and Great Tusk and Heavy Slam Zamazenta for the latter. Healing Wish Hatterene's ability to enable multiple free switches for its teammates makes it a strong choice for offensive teams—particularly teams vulnerable to entry hazards—that need to maximize a limited number of turns. Healing Wish Hatterene is almost mandatory on sun teams, which are often so vulnerable to hazards that its Magic Bounce serves as a strong secondary or even tertiary countermeasure against them; Fire-types such as Torkoal and Ninetales are especially weak to entry hazards, but even powerful attackers like Choice Specs Walking Wake, Black Glasses and Air Balloon Kingambit, and Life Orb Venusaur and Hisuian Lilligant can be worn down very quickly with hazard chip. Many of these are also answers to traditional Hatterene checks; powerful offensive threats like Choice Specs Walking Wake and offensive Great Tusk can collectively overwhelm Hatterene checks like Gholdengo, Galarian Slowking, and Heatran, which gives Hatterene plenty of opportunities to switch in on a neutral attack and either pivot out with Eject Button or use Healing Wish. Sun teams also greatly appreciate Hatterene's ability to give Torkoal an extra chance to support its team with Drought through Healing Wish, further enable these aforementioned offensive threats with Healing Wish, or spread paralysis with Nuzzle. Hatterene is also useful on rain teams for similar reasons; Pelipper greatly appreciates extra opportunities to set Drizzle up through Eject Button or Healing Wish, and teammates like Barraskewda and Raging Bolt appreciate both Hatterene's ability to deny hazards to keep them healthy and the many safe switches it can enable. Hatterene is also a staple on Psychic Terrain teams, which appreciate its ability to give Indeedee an extra chance to set up Psychic Terrain or to safely pivot in sweepers like Shell Smash Polteageist, offensive Deoxys-S, and Booster Energy Iron Boulder and Iron Crown while wasting as few precious Psychic Terrain turns as possible. Thanks to its solid bulk, good offensive presence and an amazing ability in Magic Bounce, Assault Vest Hatterene makes for a valuable addition to offense teams, preventing entry hazards from going up while simultaneously checking dangerous offensive threats such as Raging Bolt, Iron Valiant and Kyurem. Psyshock is preferred over Psychic thanks to it being able to OHKO Iron Moth, doing significantly more damage to the common Galarian Slowking, forcing Blissey out, and dealing more damage to Calm Mind sweepers that might attempt to set up on Hatterene, such as Primarina and Sinistcha. Draining Kiss provides immense utility for Hatterene, giving it valuable recovery and allowing it to be able to trade hits with and potentially beat threats such as Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Dragonite one-on-one. Mystical Fire allows Hatterene to punish Steel-types that may attempt to switch into it, such as Gholdengo, Corviknight, and Kingambit, notably 2HKOing all of them, while the guaranteed Special Attack drops can help it deal with strong special attackers like opposing Hatterene that it may otherwise struggle with. Nuzzle allows Hatterene to bring massive utility to its team by being able to consistently paralyze foes, notably also affecting opposing Hatterene and Gholdengo. Alternatively, Future Sight allows for a better matchup against defensive teams, putting pressure on bulky targets that might not be able to effectively tank a Future Sight in combination with attacks from Hatterene's teammates. Another option is Psychic Noise, as it is consistently strong with the added benefit of cutting recovery from the targets, potentially preventing foes such as Garganacl and Dondozo from walling Hatterene. The given EV spread lets Hatterene outspeed Garganacl and maximizes its offensive prowess while also allowing it to take a +1 Speed Booster Energy Iron Moth's Sludge Wave and OHKO it back as well as survive two Protosynthesis-boosted Raging Bolt Thunderbolts and two Ice Beams from Choice Specs Kyurem. Tera Water and Tera Steel are simply good defensive typings that help Hatterene check threats that might carry Steel- or Poison-type coverage; Tera Water is great for foes such as Iron Moth, Walking Wake, and Cinderace while keeping its ability to check Great Tusk and Zamazenta, while Tera Steel brings an immunity to Toxic Spikes and helps Hatterene deal with threats such as Iron Crown, Galarian Slowking, and Glimmora better. Hatterene fits best on offense teams that are looking for a way to keep entry hazards off their side of the field without needing to rely on removal like Rapid Spin or Defog, and it can provide the team with a way of paralyzing threats or pressuring foes with Future Sight. Ogerpon-W, which is unable to equip Heavy-Duty Boots, appreciates Hatterene's ability to keep hazards off the field while at the same time helping deal with threats such as Moltres and Galarian Slowking that might give Hatterene trouble. Raging Bolt also benefits from hazards being kept off and Hatterene's ability to handle Ting-Lu and Kyurem in a pinch. Zamazenta makes for an incredible partner due to it being capable of handling Kingambit, which can otherwise beat Hatterene with ease, and appreciating hazards being kept away by Hatterene. This allows it to forgo Heavy-Duty Boots in favor of items such as Leftovers and, if running Rest, Chesto Berry, all while providing much-needed speed control due to Hatterene being very slow. Great Tusk benefits from Hatterene being capable of handling threats such as Kyurem and Iron Valiant while itself providing the team with an extra safety measure against hazards thanks to its access to Rapid Spin. This may help massively against teams with Hisuian Samurott, Iron Treads, and Mold Breaker Tinkaton as their hazard setters, as Great Tusk is simultaneously capable of checking them and other threats such as Kingambit. Alternatively, Cinderace is a good option for hazard control, being noticeably faster than Great Tusk, threatening foes like Gholdengo, Tinkaton, and Iron Crown with Pyro Ball, and returning hazards that might have slipped through Hatterene's Magic Bounce with Court Change. Kingambit is also a great partner, being able to deal with Gholdengo and Galarian Slowking for Hatterene and help check opposing Kingambit if running Low Kick. In addition, Kingambit massively appreciates Hatterene's Nuzzle potentially paralyzing threats Kingambit struggles against such as Iron Valiant and Ogerpon-W while Hatterene itself can check foes like Zamazenta. Dragon Dance Kyurem is another excellent teammate, as it often has to forgo Heavy-Duty Boots in order to run other items and thus is very weak to hazards which can be kept away by Hatterene's Magic Bounce. Dragapult is worth considering as well thanks to its very high Speed, allowing it to provide speed control, and ability to pressure Gholdengo. Furthermore, Dragapult can cripple threatening physical attackers like Great Tusk, Ogerpon-W, and Heavy Slam Zamazenta, which can muscle through Hatterene if not careful, with Will-O-Wisp while also being able to bring Hatterene into the field with U-turn. Trick Room Hatterene's primary goal is to set up Trick Room to enable its slow, powerful teammates while keeping them healthy and pivoting via Healing Wish. Its main attribute is access to Magic Bounce, which is useful against entry hazard setters like Ting-Lu as well as ways to stop Trick Room like Taunt from Landorus-T and Ogerpon-W. Psychic Noise is preferred thanks to being able to heal block defensive walls like Gliscor and Clefable. Both Tera Water and Tera Steel share the benefit of saving Hatterene from Steel-type moves like Kingambit's Iron Head, Gholdengo's Make it Rain, and most importantly Iron Crown's Tachyon Cutter, which can bypass its Focus Sash. Tera Water has the added benefit of maintaining its neutrality against strong attacks like Great Tusk's Headlong Rush and Landorus-T's Earthquake while resisting Cinderace's Pyro Ball. Tera Steel, on the other hand, can save Hatterene against Pokemon like Iron Moth and Galarian Slowking if Focus Sash is no longer intact, as well as the common lead Glimmora. Focus Sash ensures that Hatterene always lives a hit, allowing it to set Trick Room reliably. This Hatterene set is an essential member of Trick Room teams, since it compresses hazard denial while also extending the life of its members with Healing Wish. There's no greater partner for Hatterene than Ursaluna, which uses its slow speed and Guts boosted attacks to decimate the opposition including would-be offensive checks like Zamazenta as well as foes like Ting-Lu and Iron Crown that Hatterene has a harder time against. Ursaluna's decaying health from Flame Orb also benefits greatly from a second life via Healing Wish. Cresselia is a secondary Trick Room setter and can also support the team with Lunar Dance. Trick Room teams struggle with priority, as it bypasses Hatterene's Trick Room. Trick Room teams can use the aforementioned Ursaluna and Iron Hands to tank common priority moves like Dragonite's Extreme Speed or Kingambit's Sucker Punch; as a bonus, Ursaluna is immune to Raging Bolt's Thunderclap, while Iron Hands is resistant to it. Enamorus-T is scared of Thunderclap, but it can still take on Extreme Speed and Sucker Punch with no trouble. Offensive teams can make use of Landorus-T, which punishes contact moves with Rocky Helmet while also having the ability to set up hazards and bring Hatterene and its allies in with U-turn. The biggest annoyance for Hatterene is not a Pokemon, but a move, Protect, because it can stall out the limited Trick Room turns, making its efforts useless. Gliscor, Alomomola, and Kyurem are all common users of the move, and the three of them take advantage of healing abilities, items, and moves to run out Trick Room's timer. Steel-types like Iron Crown, Kingambit, and Gholdengo also completely wall Hatterene and OHKO it with STAB moves. On full Trick Room teams, the slow, deadly Iron Hands can threaten Alomomola, Kyurem, and Kingambit, while Gliscor has to be very careful around Ice Punch. Enamorus-T is also a great choice, since it's a massive wallbreaker that can break Steel-types with Earth Power while threatening Gliscor, Alomomola, and Kyurem with powerful Fairy-type STAB moves. Kingambit is grateful for having Hatterene's support, since Healing Wish can let Kingambit purify burns from Will-O-Wisp users like Dragapult and Cinderace and fully concentrate on breaking. Sucker Punch also means Kingambit can be threatening in and out of Trick Room. This set is not exclusive to full Trick Room teams though, as hyper offense teams often find use of having Hatterene alongside another Trick Room partner to mess with other hyper offense teams trying to outpace each other. Great Tusk can threaten Gliscor while forming a hazard removal duo, easing the stress of Hatterene in denying hazards. This is especially important against Hisuian Samurott, which has the unique distinction of having Ceaseless Edge, putting Spikes without caring for Magic Bounce and potentially messing with its Focus Sash and setting up of Trick Room. Ogerpon-W and Iron Valiant are good partners for Hatterene on hyper offense; Ogerpon-W likes Healing Wish, since its mandatory mask means it's vulnerable to hazards and status, while threatening Alomomola and Gliscor with STAB moves and Kyurem with Play Rough, while Iron Valiant is another great option due to its access to Encore, locking these Pokemon into Protect, allowing it to grab a turn to set up, and it is also quadruple resistant to Dark-types meaning it can potentially get in and punish Hisuian Samurott for using Ceaseless Edge.
Wo Chien (SV competitive strategy): Wo-Chien's unique typing and movepool backed by its high, Tablets of Ruin-boosted bulk grants it a solid place in the metagame, checking threats such as Calyrex-S, Arceus-Ground, and Kyogre. Leech Seed reduces Wo-Chien's passivity while allowing teammates to heal after switching in. Ruination hits foes like Arceus-Fairy, Ting-Lu, and Giratina-O. Foul Play is a stronger alternative against physical attackers like Arceus and Dragon Dance Arceus-Ground that also does a decent chunk of damage to Koraidon and Zacian-C and allows Wo-Chien to punish physical attackers that have Taunt. Knock Off gives Wo-Chien more of a niche due relevant Pokemon that learn it being rare, and it is useful against foes like Ting-Lu and Landorus-T. However, Arceus formes, which can absorb Knock Off without losing their items, are quite omnipresent. Protect lets Wo-Chien safely rack up Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery. Alternatively, Taunt shuts down setup and entry hazard Pokemon such as Arceus formes and Ting-Lu on the switch. Tera Poison gives Wo-Chien key resistances to attacks like Koraidon's Low Kick, Zacian-C's Play Rough, Double Dance Miraidon's Dazzling Gleam, and the omnipresent U-turn from foes like Landorus-T, Koraidon, and Miraidon while also offering an immunity to Toxic and letting Wo-Chien absorb Toxic Spikes. However, Tera Poison also makes Wo-Chien weak to Ground-type moves from Arceus-Ground and Psychic-type moves from Calyrex-S, respectively. Wo-Chien fits best on balance and bulky offense teams that appreciate its ability to check Calyrex-S and Arceus-Ground while offering good recovery via Leech Seed to teammates. Wo-Chien benefits from teammates such as Skeledirge, Toxapex, and Landorus-T, which check Koraidon and Zacian-C for it. Special attackers in Arceus-Fairy, Substitute Kyogre, and Eternatus trouble Wo-Chien, so offensive checks to them such as Zacian-C, Choice Scarf Koraidon, Arceus, and Calyrex-S are appreciated. Water Absorb Closdire as a defensive teammate checks Arceus-Fairy, Kyogre, and Eternatus while setting up hazards.
Stunfisk (BW competitive strategy): Stunfisk hits the stage of BW PU as one of the best utility walls in the format. Stunfisk's unique typing grants it a useful array of resistances to common attacking types such as Flying, Rock, Poison, and even an immunity to Electric. Stunfisk also has access to Stealth Rock to set for the team, and its ability Static makes any contact moves, especially from Pokemon like Monferno and Stoutland, risky and potentially crippling. Combine all of this with Stunfisk's great bulk and it stands as one of the most solid anchors a team could ask for. Weaknesses to Grass, Ground, and Water do make Stunfisk's job difficult sometimes, especially with Grass-types like Torterra resisting both of Stunfisk's STAB moves for an easy switch in. Stealth Rock is always a boon and Stunfisk's ability to force switches gives it plenty of opportunities to set it up. Discharge is both for a STAB option and for an additional 30% paralysis chance that can threaten common usually-safe switch-ins like Shiftry and Bronzor. Earth Power is for an additional STAB move to better threaten Zebstrika, Klang, and Arbok. Toxic is used in the fourth slot to spread chip damage on to opposing walls that aren't threatened by Stunfisk's STABS or paralysis, while Thunder Wave can be used to instead spread paralysis to slow foes down for a later sweep by a teammate. Stunfisk's ability should also always be Static, as the combination of Static and Ground typing means that Stunfisk can effectively stop VoltTurn in its tracks. Stunfisk forces out many Pokemon but also invites other threats in such as Ground-types like Torterra and Grass-types like Shiftry. Teammates such as Jumpluff and Monferno can help mitigate Ground- and Grass-types on offensive teams, and other choices like Bronzor and Audino can help on defensive teams. Water-type attacks are also a notable threat to Stunfisk, so partners like Vileplume, Maractus, and Tentacool also make for good partners. Stunfisk is also heavily reliant on just its Leftovers for healing, so clerics and Wish passers such as Aromatherapy Vileplume and Wish Audino can make Stunfisk stay around for a long time. Stunfisk is also excellent at checking threats like Zebstrika and Monferno, so partners such as Huntail and Shiftry always appreciate having Stunfisk around.
Stunfisk (XY competitive strategy): Stunfisk carves itself a notable niche in the PU metagame as one of the best status spreaders for balanced teams in the tier. With its reasonably good bulk, Stunfisk is able to paralyze opponents with its ability or Discharge, or poison them with Toxic. Stunfisk also has access to Stealth Rock, which provides good team support. Stunfisk makes for a good counter to common Electric-types in the tier because of its unique Ground / Electric typing, as well as a good check to physical attackers that may be reluctant to attack due to Static. However, Stunfisk's weaknesses to the ever-so common Water-, Ice-, and Grass-type attacks make it difficult to stay in for very long. Stunfisk also has a very, very low Speed stat, leaving it outsped by the entire tier bar Avalugg and Munchlax. It also has no reliable recovery and is very susceptible to residual damage and status. Stealth Rock provides the utility of wearing down each foe that switches in. Discharge is a STAB move that has a high chance to paralyze, allowing Stunfisk to cripple opposing Pokemon and sweepers. Earth Power is a good STAB move that provides coverage on opposing Electric-types, such as opposing Stunfisk. Toxic is a good move to cripple opposing walls that are not hit hard by Stunfisk's other attacks, and it has good synergy with Earth Power, as Earth Power threatens Poison- and Steel-type Pokemon that attempt to switch into Toxic. Yawn is another option if Stunfisk wants to force switches or immobilize the opponent. Protect can also be run to scout foes and gain more Leftovers recovery, and Sludge Wave can hit Leafeon on the switch in and break Rotom-F's Substitute. 252 HP EVs add to Stunfisk's overall bulk, allowing it to sustain more hits and spread more status. 252 Defense EVs with a Bold nature maximize Stunfisk's Defense stat, allowing it to take any physical hit well and possibly paralyze the opponent with Static. However, a specially defensive spread can be used to take hits from special attackers. The aforementioned Static is the ability, as it has a high chance to paralyze the opponent if hit on contact. Leftovers is used for passive recovery, although Passho Berry can also be run to check offensive Water-types such as Floatzel. Stunfisk should stick around throughout the match as a pivot and spread status with Discharge and Toxic to cripple most of the opposing team. Stealth Rock is best used after Stunfisk has already induced status or if it forces a switch due to type advantage. With its good Defense and Static, Stunfisk does a great job of keeping physical attackers, such as Dodrio, Purugly, and Pawniard, in check. This means that Stunfisk can pivot into physical attacks to try to activate Static. U-turn, in particular, is a great attack to pivot into, as users of the move are normally reliant on being quick. That being said, Stunfisk should not pivot recklessly into attacks that are powerful, as they can easily wear it down. If running Passho Berry, Stunfisk should be used to lure in and KO Water-type attackers such as Simipour and Swanna. Not revealing its lack of Leftovers can help lure these threats in, as, once it is clear Stunfisk is not carrying Leftovers, they are more likely to be wary of Passho Berry. Stunfisk's paralysis support is greatly appreciated on balanced teams by Pokemon that are relatively slow albeit powerful, such as Bouffalant and Regice. These two Pokemon also can cover Grass-types for Stunfisk. Roselia and other hazard setters can set their hazards in combination with Stunfisk's Stealth Rock to apply extreme pressure to the opponent. Grass-types such as Roselia can keep Water- and Ground-type Pokemon at bay, making them good partners. Clerics such as Audino and Grumpig are good partners, as they rid Stunfisk of poison and burns, and Audino can provide Wish support as well. Spinblockers such as Gourgeist can also keep Stealth Rock on the field, as well as other hazards. If Defog is a threat, Pawniard is a good partner, as the evasion drop from Defog activates Defiant and boosts Pawniard's Attack by two stages. Swanna and Dodrio also have great synergy with Stunfisk, while Stunfisk can block Volt Switch for them, which they both despise. Choice Specs is a viable option on Stunfisk, as it finds a lot of opportunities to switch in and can do surprisingly good damage. Rest can be run in the last slot either with a Chesto Berry as the item or with cleric support, but it generally won't be worth the loss of Leftovers recovery or reliance on clerics. Foul Play seems like a good option to hit physical setup sweepers, but it is rather weak without a STAB boost, and Stunfisk would much rather use a status-inducing move. Scald has a chance to burn but is usually inferior to Discharge, as it has worse coverage, doesn't get a STAB boost, and doesn't always cause a burn, whereas Discharge is also backed up by Static. Thunderbolt is better on stall teams that would rather have Stunfisk poison foes with Toxic, as well as having a higher damage output.
Stunfisk (SM competitive strategy): A decent and unique defensive typing along with fairly good stats allows Stunfisk to act as a check to several offensive threats like Skuntank, Dodrio, Lycanroc, Aggron, and Scyther. Access to Stealth Rock allows Stunfisk to also provide entry hazard support, slowly chipping away at the opposing team. Static is also a good ability for a defensive Pokemon, spreading paralysis to further help out teammates. However, lack of reliable recovery is unhelpful for a defensive Pokemon like Stunfisk and leaves it open to being worn down quickly by status and chip damage. Its typing, while being great for checking many physical threats, unfortunately leaves Stunfisk weak to predominately specially based types like Ice, Grass, and Water from Pokemon such as Jellicent and Aurorus as well as giving it a weakness to Earthquake and other Ground-type attacks including those from the likes of Mudsdale and Kangaskhan. Stunfisk also faces heavy competition from other Stealth Rock setters, mainly Mudsdale, which can check most of the same Pokemon and has better overall utility. Discharge is used to hit Flying-type foes like Oricorio-G and Swanna that may be tempted to either set up or remove Stealth Rock right away with Defog. It also helps spread paralysis if the foe doesn't make contact. Earth Power is useful for beating many of the Pokemon that Stunfisk checks like Skuntank and Lycanroc as well as opposing Stealth Rock setters like Regirock and Aggron. Toxic helps wear down bulkier Pokemon like Mudsdale and Assault Vest Lanturn, and Pokemon like Eelektross and Rotom-F that resist or are immune to Stunfisk's STAB attacks. Protect is an option to scout Choice-locked foes like Choice Specs Jellicent and Choice Scarf Abomasnow and better assess what to switch in while also healing more with Leftovers. Leftovers gives Stunfisk passive recovery and allows it to stay in and check more foes. Static is Stunfisk's most viable ability, having a chance to paralyze Pokemon that make contact. A physically defensive spread works best with Stunfisk's typing, as many of the types that it resists are primarily physically based such as Flying and Rock, while most types that it's weak to are primarily specially based like Ice and Water. Stunfisk is best switched in on attackers that can't do much damage to it and are threatened by paralysis like Scyther. It can then use this pressure to set up Stealth Rock. It is used as a physical sponge with its decent resistances and should be kept healthy so it can check Pokemon like Dodrio. Stunfisk should avoid switching into status, especially Toxic, that can wear it down. Stunfisk should usually use Discharge, as paralysis can be detrimental to almost anything in the metagame by slowing it down. Protect should be used to scout the opponent's moves and can also be used to stall out field effects like rain and Trick Room. Toxic should be used when the opponent has Pokemon that don't mind being paralyzed. Assault Vest Crabominable and Audino are much more threatened by poison. Specially defensive Pokemon that can tank attacks from Jellicent and Aurorus help Stunfisk remain able to check physical threats. Lanturn, Articuno, and specially defensive Alolan Sandslash are all good examples of this and appreciate Stunfisk's ability to check physical Pokemon like Primeape. Clerics like Lanturn, Altaria, and Audino help Stunfisk stay healthy via Heal Bell, with Audino in particular providing great Wish support. Strong attackers like Choice Specs Jellicent and Stoutland appreciate Stunfisk's ability to slow down faster threats. Scyther in particular appreciates the Rock-type resistance and Electric-type immunity that Stunfisk provides, while Stunfisk appreciates a good Grass-type check. Roselia is a great partner for Stunfisk, checking Water- and Grass-types like Jellicent while also providing Spikes support to form an entry hazard stacking core. In return, Stunfisk also checks physical attackers like Skuntank that threaten Roselia. Scald can be used to spread burns instead of paralysis, though it lacks the ability to wear down threats as much as Toxic and doesn't cripple special attackers as much as paralysis. An offensive set with Sludge Wave and Scald can be used with Choice Specs as a lure, but other than surprise factor, it is greatly outclassed by other special attackers. Rocky Helmet can be used to further punish physical attackers, but the passive recovery of Leftovers is hard to pass up on, as it is Stunfisk's only form of recovery outside of Rest.
Stunfisk (SS competitive strategy): Stunfisk is a notable specially defensive wall and Stealth Rock setter in ZU that has good matchups against common threats like Rotom, Skuntank, and Manectric. Toxic wears down switch-ins like Tangela, Rhydon, and Piloswine and Defoggers like Articuno and Rotom formes. Earth Power prevents Stunfisk from being passive against prominent special attackers like Manectric, Skuntank, and Ninetales. Discharge allows Stunfisk to spread paralysis and deal with most Defoggers, while Foul Play lets it handle Substitute + Nasty Plot Rotom and physical setup sweepers like Thwackey, which may try to take advantage of Stunfisk to safely set up. Static punishes physical attackers like Kangaskhan, Silvally formes, and Klinklang, and it can also give Stunfisk a chance to cripple checks like Thwackey in an emergency situation. Stunfisk fits primarily on balance and bulky offense teams and provides valuable role compression. Grass-types like Tangela, Thwackey, and Gourgeist-S handle Water- and Ground-types like Poliwrath and Rhydon; in return, Stunfisk can take on Poison-types like Silvally-Poison and Skuntank for them. Fire-types like Rapidash and Ninetales pressure the aforementioned Grass-types, as well as Ice-types like Articuno and Froslass, for Stunfisk. As Stunfisk has a poor matchup against other Stealth Rock setters like Rhydon and Piloswine, it is advisable to pair it with Water-types like Poliwrath and Cramorant; the latter is a notable partner that can provide Defog and check powerful foes like Sawk while benefitting greatly from Stunfisk dealing with Electric-types. Toxic absorbers like Altaria and Qwilfish prevent Stunfisk from getting worn down; a Toxic Spikes absorber like Silvally-Poison or Qwilfish is likewise helpful. Cleric support from partners like Clefairy and Alcremie helps Stunfisk remain healthy, especially on bulkier teams. Rest provides Stunfisk with recovery and lets it remove status, but it makes Stunfisk even more passive. Thunder Wave provides a more reliable method of slowing foes like Sawk and Silvally formes, while Protect synergizes with Toxic and Leftovers, wearing down foes and providing Stunfisk with more recovery. However, Stunfisk often has difficulty fitting either move.
Scovillain (SV competitive strategy): A set with Growth / Flamethrower or Fire Blast / Giga Drain or Solar Beam / Stomping Tantrum and Heavy-Duty Boots could be used but the immediate power of a sun-boosted Choice Specs Tera Fire Overheat, Fire Blast, or Flamethrower is usually to good to give up, especially when Venusaur usually runs a Growth set itself, often resigning Scovillain to be the team's wallbreaker.
Spectrier (SS competitive strategy): Spectrier is almost completely outclassed by Calyrex-S. The one advantage Spectrier has is its pure Ghost-typing, which allows it to be an effective lure for Yveltal lacking Knock Off, Taunt, or Snarl. Between its typing, low Attack, and Will-O-Wisp, Spectrier's Substitute will not be broken by Yveltal's burned Foul Play or U-turn, thus making Yveltal complete setup fodder. This means Spectrier is very matchup-dependent, as common Pokemon such as Knock Off Yveltal, Ho-Oh, or Blissey spell doom for Spectrier. It is also reliant on Will-O-Wisp to power up Hex, and its low bulk means it is easily revenge killed without Substitute up. The given EVs ensure that Spectrier's Substitute will never be broken by a burned Yveltal's Foul Play. From there, Spectrier is free to set up Substitute and Nasty Plot. The Speed investment allows Spectrier to outrun Adamant Marshadow and most Eternatus, and the rest is dumped into Special Attack. Notably, the Special Attack EVs allow Spectrier to have a 90% chance to 2HKO fully invested specially defensive Necrozma-DM at +2 without needing to use Will-O-Wisp; this also guarantees an OHKO on a burned Necrozma-DM. Spectrier appreciates teammates with pivot moves that give it a free switch, such as U-turn Yveltal and Galarian Darmanitan. While redundant type-wise, Choice item Calyrex-S can Trick Yveltal and make it easier for Spectrier to set up on it. Swords Dance Groudon loves Yveltal being burned, as it massively weakens Foul Play. Additionally, Groudon can wallbreak well if Yveltal happens to lack Foul Play, which can make Spectrier less matchup-dependent overall. A Choice Specs set can be used in combination with Calyrex-S to form an offensive double Ghost-type core; however, other Pokemon such as Marshadow or Lunala do this better. Calm Mind is an option over Nasty Plot; however, the quick power of Nasty Plot is very much appreciated, and it makes Spectrier less dependent on Will-O-Wisp burns for power. A set consisting of Life Orb, Nasty Plot, and Hyper Beam can smack Yveltal with pure power, but it is extremely risky and not recommended.
Cryogonal (BW competitive strategy): like Feraligatr, such as Sceptile and Lilligant, make for great its miserable Defense. Durant, Escavalier, Aggron, and Klinklang all Ice Beam, such as Kabutops, Crawdaunt, and Feraligatr, can set up on Cryogonal. Fighting-types such as Gallade, Hariyama, and Primeape leave
Cryogonal (XY competitive strategy): Cryogonal is the most reliable Rapid Spin user in the tier. Its solid Speed tier and Special Attack give it solid offensive presence, and Levitate grants it an immunity to Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Sticky Web, making it far easier to remove them. Cryogonal also has great natural Special Defense, allowing it to check many threatening special attackers such as Floatzel and Electrode and making it one of the best offensive checks to Rotom-F. However, Cryogonal's very poor physical bulk leaves it easily threatened or forced out by even weak physical moves and somewhat vulnerable to Pursuit. Additionally, its weakness to Stealth Rock makes Cryogonal fairly easy to chip away at. Freeze-Dry is Cryogonal's STAB move of choice, as it allows Cryogonal to threaten Water-types more effectively. Rapid Spin removes entry hazards to support Cryogonal's teammates, and Recover keeps Cryogonal healthy over longer games where it has to switch into Stealth Rock multiple times. Hidden Power Fighting hits opposing Steel- and Ice-types, in particular OHKOing Pawniard on the switch in and breaking Rotom-F's Substitute. Maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Cryogonal to outspeed everything up to base 101 Speed Pokemon including Simipour and Speed tie with Kadabra running Hidden Power Fighting. Maximum Special Attack gives Cryogonal increased offensive presence to have more time to Rapid Spin, while Leftovers grants Cryogonal passive recovery to help with switching into Stealth Rock. Cryogonal should remove entry hazards as quickly as possible to avoid its teammates being weakened. However, if the opponent has a Ghost-type, beware of using Rapid Spin and giving it a free switch in, as it also blocks the entry hazard removal. In particular, be wary of Dusknoir, as it can Pursuit trap Cryogonal for most of its health, so Cryogonal should often double switch to avoid being trapped. Cryogonal can sacrifice itself to remove entry hazards if necessary. Cryogonal is extremely physically frail, and it should avoid all physical attackers if possible. While it is a good check to many special attackers, watch out for coverage moves or sets that can eliminate it such as Psyshock Mr. Mime, Superpower Simipour, and physical Floatzel. Use Recover to stay healthy over long matches, as Cryogonal will often need to switch into Stealth Rock multiple times. Pokemon weak to Stealth Rock such as Rapidash and passive teams that need a way to keep Spikes off the field appreciate Cryogonal's entry hazard removal. However, Cryogonal is not an ideal entry hazard remover for teams with too many Stealth Rock-weak Pokemon, as they can put a lot of pressure on it and stack Rock weaknesses. Physical walls such as Tangela are useful for Cryogonal to fall back on when it's forced out by physical attackers such as Stoutland. Fire- and Fighting-types checks such as Gabite, Altaria, and Grumpig help to check Cryogonal's main weaknesses, while Zebstrika and Electrode appreciate having a teammate that can switch into and threaten Stunfisk easily. Physical Floatzel is a useful offensive partner, as it can threaten Fire-types for Cryogonal while Cryogonal checks Grass-types and Vullaby. A spread of 40 Def / 216 SpA / 228 Spe allows Cryogonal to survive a single Sucker Punch from Pawniard at full health and OHKO with Hidden Power Fighting while still outspeeding Simipour, Simisear, and Simisage. Toxic or Knock Off can annoy switch-ins such as Audino, Grumpig, Misdreavus, and Metang, although they leave Cryogonal totally walled by Pawniard and Probopass. Life Orb and Never-Melt Ice increase Cryogonal's attacking power to make it more of an offensive threat, but Life Orb can wear it down in conjunction with Stealth Rock, and Never-Melt Ice does not provide a significant damage increase. Explosion can be used on Life Orb sets to lure in and cripple or KO foes such as Grumpig and opposing Cryogonal. Hidden Power Ground threatens Fire-type switch-ins but leaves Cryogonal unable to hit Rotom-F. A spread of 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 Spe can focus more on Cryogonal's bulk rather than its attacking power to be a more reliable spinner but leaves it fairly weak and easy to check. Ice Beam hits slightly harder than Freeze-Dry, but it is generally not worth missing out on threatening Water-types.
Cryogonal (SM competitive strategy): Cryogonal stands out from other Rapid Spin users thanks to its combination of an excellent Speed tier, good offensive typing, and decent utility, which lends it a better matchup against common spinblockers such as Jellicent, Golurk, and Oricorio-G. It is also notable for being the fastest entry hazard remover in the metagame as well as being the only spinner with access to reliable recovery, which improves its chances of removing hazards repeatedly. Cryogonal's Speed and good offensive typing give it a notable offensive presence, and it even performs well as a specially defensive wall that can check prevalent special attackers such as Victreebel and Aurorus. However, Cryogonal's low Defense stat and poor defensive typing make it vulnerable to the majority of physical attacks, including Pursuit, as well as Stealth Rock. As a spinner, it faces competition from Alolan Sandslash and Hitmonchan, whose superior Defense stats, better defensive typing, and lack of weakness to Stealth Rock grant them more opportunities to switch in. It also faces competition from Articuno as a specially defensive wall and offensive threat due to its part Flying typing, access to Heal Bell, and better offensive moveset. Defog can be used over Rapid Spin on non-entry hazard stacking teams, as it gives Cryogonal more opportunities to remove entry hazards. Freeze-Dry takes precedence over Frost Breath as Cryogonal's STAB move of choice, as it allows Cryogonal to deal with Water-types like Jellicent, Lanturn, and Ludicolo while retaining enough power to pressure Calm Mind variants of Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G. Hidden Power Fire lets Cryogonal threaten Ferroseed, which otherwise walls it, as well as Alolan Sandslash and Rotom-F. Hidden Power Fighting is an option that lets Cryogonal deal better damage to Aurorus and Aggron while still hitting Alolan Sandslash, but it leaves Cryogonal walled by Ferroseed and Bronzor. Icium Z lets Cryogonal OHKO Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G after a Calm Mind boost, as well as take out targets like Mudsdale, Lurantis, and Absol from full health and Skuntank and Stoutland after slight chip damage. If the team already has a Z-Move user, Metronome can be used to further increase Cryogonal's cleaning potential, given that very few Pokemon can take a boosted Freeze-Dry comfortably, as well as its ability to pressure Pokemon that might attempt to switch in and wall it, such as Musharna and Bronzor. Alternatively, Icicle Plate's consistent power boost to Freeze-Dry can be used to check targets like Lanturn and Jellicent more reliably. Cryogonal works well early-game, when it can utilize its good offensive prowess to threaten entry hazard setters such as Torterra, Mudsdale, and Qwilfish and find entry hazard removal opportunities against foes that it forces out such as Jellicent and Oricorio-G. Cryogonal's special bulk is respectable even when uninvested, allowing it to switch into threats like Oricorio-E, Jellicent, and Lanturn and giving it more opportunities to wallbreak. However, pivoting into these threats shouldn't be its main purpose, and it also shouldn't be brought in against stronger special attackers like Drampa or foes with physical coverage moves that can lure it in and KO it, such as Victreebel and Abomasnow. Cryogonal can also attempt to conceal the fact that it's offensive and preserve its Z-Move to take out Pursuit trappers such as Skuntank, Absol, and Stoutland that usually force it out. It should do so when its health is full, however, as the lack of Leftovers recovery can give away the set. Icium Z can similarly be used to take out or heavily damage predicted switch-ins that would normally counter Cryogonal, such as Gurdurr, Eelektross, and Regirock. Metronome's surprise factor can be utilized against foes that normally wall Cryogonal such as Bronzor, which will likely attempt to set up Stealth Rock once it sees Hidden Power Fire's low initial damage output. Entry hazard setters such as Qwilfish, Ferroseed, Mudsdale, and Regirock assist Cryogonal by pressuring Pokemon that it struggles with such as Kangaskhan and Lycanroc, with Qwilfish also being able to switch into Gurdurr and Regirock alleviating Cryogonal's pressure of checking Oricorio-E. In return, all of them appreciate Cryogonal dealing with Jellicent and Lanturn and revenge killing Torterra, Lurantis, and Victreebel. Kangaskhan and Combusken can offensively check Simisear, weaken Eelektross and Metang, and pressure mutual targets like Victreebel and Alolan Sandslash. Both appreciate Cryogonal supporting them with entry hazard removal and eliminating targets that they struggle to break through, such as Mudsdale, Jellicent, Lanturn, and Altaria. Jellicent and Victreebel can provide Cryogonal with a solid defensive backbone, as they are able to handle Fighting-types like Gurdurr and Primeape as well as cripple Rock-types that Cryogonal struggles to break through such as Regirock and Carbink. Jellicent is also capable of switching into Combusken and Alolan Sandslash and can even function as a spinblocker on entry hazard stacking teams. In return, Cryogonal can check Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G for them. Lanturn and Primeape can create opportunities for Cryogonal to wallbreak or remove entry hazards by bringing it in on Pokemon like Jellicent, Mudsdale, and Eelektross, with the former also checking Fire-types like Combusken and non-Grassium Z Simisear and curing Cryogonal of status with Heal Bell and the latter revenge killing Absol and Alolan Raichu. Swords Dance Silvally-Fairy is also notable for being able to pressure Musharna, Gurdurr, and Hitmonchan and benefiting from entry hazard removal provided by Cryogonal. Skuntank greatly assists Cryogonal by threatening and Pursuit trapping bulky Psychic-types such as Musharna, Metang, and Bronzor and weakening other targets such as Stoutland, Silvally-Fairy, and opposing Cryogonal. Defog may be used in place of Rapid Spin as an unblockable means of entry hazard removal if keeping your own hazards up is of lesser concern. Frost Breath is Cryogonal's STAB move of choice, as the guaranteed critical hits help it break through Calm Mind and Quiver Dance users such as Oricorio-E, Oricorio-G, and Bellossom as well as other targets that are weak to Ice like Victreebel and Golurk. Freeze-Dry is an alternative STAB move that sacrifices power and setup pressure to OHKO Water-types like Swanna and Ludicolo and pressure others like Qwilfish, Jellicent, and Lanturn. Hidden Power Fire allows Cryogonal to 2HKO Ferroseed, as it takes virtually nothing from Cryogonal's other attacks, as well as Alolan Sandslash. Hidden Power Fighting can be used to target Aurorus and Aggron while still hitting Alolan Sandslash but misses out on Ferroseed. Toxic can be used over Hidden Power to cripple switch-ins such as Eelektross as well as walls like Regirock and Jellicent. 200 Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Cryogonal to remove entry hazards quickly, often before it takes any hit, and outspeed Swanna, Oricorio-E, and Oricorio-G. 8 Special Attack investment guarantees Cryogonal can 2HKO specially defensive Alolan Sandslash with Hidden Power Fire after Stealth Rock. The remainder of EVs are invested into HP and Special Defense to further improve Cryogonal's special bulk. Cryogonal should preferably target Pokemon that don't threaten it with physical attacks or Toxic, such as Aurorus and Oricorio-E, so it can remove entry hazards safely. Its high Special Defense can be utilized to counter special attackers that don't pose a threat to it, such as Victreebel and Oricorio-G, as well as hazard setters like Qwilfish and Omastar. Although Cryogonal's offensive prowess isn't great without investment in Special Attack, its nearly unresisted Ice + Fire or Fighting coverage can be a nuisance for many teams and thus should be used to chip predicted switch-ins. Toxic should be used against setters such as Regirock, which can otherwise easily set Stealth Rock repeatedly against Cryogonal. Cryogonal fits well on entry hazard stacking teams that appreciate its fast Rapid Spin, thus making it a natural partner to Spikes and Toxic Spikes setters such as Qwilfish, Ferroseed, and Roselia as well as spinblockers such as Golurk and Jellicent. Thanks to its excellent special bulk, it can act as a backbone for specially frail team members like Dodrio, Victreebel, and Haunter. Due to its physical frailty, and in particular its weakness to common Fighting-type Pokemon, Fighting-type checks like Tangela, Oricorio-E, and Mudsdale as well as Normal-type checks like Gurdurr and Regirock make good partners. Gurdurr in particular stands out as an excellent partner to Cryogonal, checking most Fighting- and Rock-types that threaten Cryogonal and absorbing incoming Toxic from walls, while in return Cryogonal can deal with Gurdurr's biggest threats in the form of Victreebel and Oricorio-E. Lanturn is also a great option, as aside from checking many similar targets, Cryogonal can check Ground-types like Mudsdale that threaten Lanturn, while in return Lanturn can check Fire-types and cure Cryogonal of any status condition with Heal Bell. Lastly, stallbreakers like Kangaskhan and Stoutland can greatly help non-Toxic Cryogonal against stall while also greatly benefitting from hazard stacking thanks to the multitude of switches they can force from the opposing team. Cryogonal can utilize additional utility moves such as Knock Off, which cripples Assault Vest users like Eelektross and Eviolite users like Bronzor as they switch in, as well as Protect, which can be used to scout against Choice-locked Pursuit users such as Dodrio and Stoutland as well as to protect itself from Z-Move users such as Alolan Persian. However, Cryogonal struggles to fit either over important coverage or generally more useful utility in Toxic. Offensive variants can use Water Pulse or Hidden Power Ground to check Simisear in a pinch at the expense of Hidden Power Fire's superior coverage.
Cryogonal (SS competitive strategy): Cryogonal is one of the best Rapid Spinners in the metagame thanks to its great special bulk and Speed. Cryogonal also performs well as a specially defensive wall and hazard remover, checking prevalent special attackers such as Articuno, Rotom formes, and Jynx. It has access to reliable recovery in Recover and great utility with the combination of Knock Off and Rapid Spin. Cryogonal's low Defense stat and poor defensive typing make it vulnerable to a majority of physical attackers. Altaria can help Cryogonal check both Fire- and Fighting-type moves. Tangela can also check physical attackers such as Sawk, Kangaskhan, and Gurdurr, which force out Cryogonal. In return, Cryogonal counters special attackers such as Rotom formes and Appletun. On balance builds, Fire-types like Ninetales and Rapidash are great partners for Cryogonal, handling Steel-types such as Klinklang and Pawniard; in return, Cryogonal is able to pressure its checks such as Altaria and bulky Water-types like Qwilfish. Water-types like Qwilfish and Poliwrath help check Fire-types such as Rapidash and Ninetales, which annoy Cryogonal. Bulky Fighting-types such as Gurdurr and Throh also pair well with Cryogonal, threatening Steel-types. Defog can remove hazards in front of Ghost-types at the cost of removing its own. Haze is useful against special setup sweepers such as Skuntank, Alcremie, and Nasty Plot Rotom. Toxic is an option to cripple bulky foes such as Articuno, Miltank, and Rapidash. However, Knock Off is usually more reliable at it; it can also help pressure other spinblockers like Sableye, Cofagrigus, and Froslass.
Salazzle (SM competitive strategy): In a sea of lower-tier Fire-types, Salazzle stands out as one of the most lethal among them and one of the most powerful RU Pokemon. Its excellent STAB combination, great Speed, and access to Nasty Plot give it the means to pose as a threatening sweeper to every playstyle, and its great typing makes up for its minuscule defenses by granting it crucial 4x resistances and a Toxic immunity, which allow it to set up on Pokemon like Florges, Roserade, Registeel, and single-attack or Choice-locked Escavalier. Salazzle's defensive typing serves other purposes as well by diluting the threat of Toxic Spikes and letting it serve as an offensive check to Chlorophyll Venusaur and Synthesis Virizion. Salazzle is also a notable user of Z-Moves, using its Acid Downpour to its fullest by melting through a slew of tenacious specially defensive Pokemon such as Snorlax, Diancie, Milotic, and Cresselia with minimal support. Salazzle's frailty and Stealth Rock weakness result in it being a tad too easy to revenge kill with priority such as Sucker Punch or any ordinary Choice Scarf user, however. Salazzle's lack of bulk also restricts setup opportunities to forced switches and specific targets, and even then, due to Salazzle's limited coverage options, it requires additional support to break through the likes of Gigalith. Nasty Plot gives Salazzle the necessary power to break through a variety of walls, including Umbreon and Porygon2. Fire Blast complements Sludge Wave well and is used to KO Registeel at +2. Sludge Wave targets Water- and Dragon-types. Hidden Power Grass keeps Rhyperior, Seismitoad, and Gastrodon from checking Salazzle. Hidden Power Ice is an alternative that KOes Flygon and Zygarde-10% as well as pressuring Dragalge, but the former two can beat Salazzle through Choice Scarf or Extreme Speed anyway. Using Taunt is another option that allows Salazzle to shut down passive Thunder Wave users and Pyukumuku. Poisonium Z is by far Salazzle's best item, as +2 Acid Downpour allows it to OHKO Diancie, Mega Blastoise, and Milotic as well as Snorlax and Cresselia after two switches into Stealth Rock. In addition, Poisonium Z allows Salazzle to more safely set up on passive Knock Off users and gives it the means to break through Prankster Encore. Life Orb can be used if another Z-Move user is more important to your team, and the initial power makes Salazzle's job as a revenge killer a bit easier, but Poisonium Z should always be the first choice due to the significance of the KOs it gets. The 8 HP EVs prevent Salazzle from being 3HKOed by Umbreon's Foul Play. Oblivious is the more useful ability, as it allows Salazzle to safely set up against Taunt users, and Corrosion simply isn't useful when Salazzle can only inflict poison 10% of the time with Sludge Wave. There are only a few offensive Pokemon that Salazzle sets up on, but several Grass-types and defensive Pokemon, including Florges, Roserade, Registeel, and Umbreon, are easy enough to take advantage of. Aside from these Pokemon, Salazzle can be used to revenge kill threats such as Escavalier, Virizion, and Shaymin or even set up on them if a switch is anticipated. Salazzle should only be brought in when a teammate faints to revenge kill or if it's given the proper support with Volt Switch or U-turn users such as Mega Ampharos and Noivern. Defog support from the likes of Mandibuzz is imperative, as Salazzle being at full health allows it to withstand many important attacks it otherwise wouldn't, including Cresselia's Psychic and two of Porygon2's Thunderbolt. Rapid Spin users such as Mega Blastoise and Donphan can provide similar support and work better on offensive teams, but aren't as consistent as Defoggers with reliable recovery. Pivots such as Noivern can use U-turn to bring Salazzle in against Pokemon it sets up on. Choice Specs Gardevoir and Salazzle share answers in Cresselia and Gigalith, so they can soften up each other's checks. Swellow, Honchkrow, and Yanmega share checks with Salazzle and can make good partners, since Salazzle and any one of the three can wear down these counters for one of them to sweep. Fire Blast is Salazzle's main STAB move, allowing it to beat Pokemon such as Escavalier, Bewear, and Registeel and hit most Pokemon that don't resist Fire very hard. Sludge Wave allows Salazzle to hit Fairy-types and some Pokemon that are able to take Fire Blast, and it can be used if there's no need to risk a miss with Fire Blast. Hidden Power Grass allows Salazzle to KO Barbaracle and 2HKO specially defensive Rhyperior after Stealth Rock or slight chip damage. Dragon Pulse lets Salazzle hit other setup sweepers and switch-ins like Flygon and Dragalge. Hidden Power Ground is an option to revenge kill opposing Salazzle while still hitting Barbaracle hard. Choice Scarf allows Salazzle to outspeed and revenge kill a lot of threats, including Flygon, Venusaur, Swellow, Barbaracle, Noivern, and Cloyster. 252 EVs in Speed allow Salazzle to outspeed Pokemon such as +1 Zygarde-10% and +2 Naughty Cloyster, while 252 in Special Attack make Salazzle hit as hard as possible. A Timid nature is used to outspeed Modest Venusaur in sun, +2 Naive Cloyster, and +2 Barbaracle. This Salazzle set should be used to revenge kill or to clean a game once its checks are weakened enough. Thanks to its Speed and great STAB combination, Choice Scarf Salazzle can revenge kill a lot of Pokemon most other Choice Scarf users can't such as Choice Scarf Flygon, Venusaur in sun, Choice Scarf Shaymin, +2 Barbaracle, and +2 Cloyster. While Salazzle can be brought in on resisted moves such as Florges's Moonblast, it usually doesn't want to take unnecessary damage; it should only come in through a free switch or slow U-turn. This set is useful on offensive or balanced teams that need a check to Pokemon such as Shell Smash Cloyster and Rock Polish Tyrantrum. Defog and Rapid Spin support from Pokemon such as Mandibuzz, Donphan, and Mega Blastoise allows Salazzle to come in more often. Pokemon that can set entry hazards such as Golisopod and Registeel can be helpful, as they let Salazzle clean a game or revenge kill opposing Pokemon more easily. Strong wallbreakers such as Swords Dance Bewear, Life Orb Shaymin, and Choice Specs Gardevoir can help weaken Salazzle's checks to give it an easier time cleaning up, while Salazzle can help by weakening Registeel and Metagross, which can make it easier for those wallbreakers to spam their STAB moves. Dragon Pulse allows Nasty Plot Salazzle to get more damage on Goodra and Dragalge but is otherwise not as useful as Hidden Power Ice. Knock Off can be used as Nasty Plot's fourth move so that Salazzle can cripple its defensive checks prior to setting up. Knock Off can also cripple potential switch-ins like Choice Scarf Tyrantrum, giving Salazzle an easier time sweeping late-game. Encore can enable setup versus entry hazard setters and removers, ease Sucker Punch mind games, and turn the tables on opposing setup sweepers such as Calm Mind Raikou, but it is not particularly reliable. Substitute can be used to dodge Sucker Punch, evade Thunder Wave, and make Salazzle harder to revenge kill, but losing coverage makes Salazzle much easier to counter. Toxic + Hidden Power Ice can be run in the last two slots on Salazzle's Choice Scarf set to hit threats like Flygon for more damage as well as cripple switch-ins like Porygon2 and Mandibuzz, but should only be run if Barbaracle is covered well by Salazzle's teammates.
Salazzle (SS competitive strategy): Salazzle's access to Nasty Plot and incredible offensive stats make it a premier setup sweeper in NU. Despite having difficulty bypassing common Water-types, very few other foes can stand up to Salazzle's boosted attacks; for example, +2 Overheat gets past Mudsdale, while +2 Dragon Pulse deals with Guzzlord. Additionally, Salazzle possesses a very convenient defensive typing, which helps it avoid being revenge killed by Rotom-C's Leaf Storm and Passimian's Close Combat. Despite all of this, other fast foes like Inteleon, Talonflame, and Choice Scarf Heliolisk give Salazzle trouble, and Salazzle lacks any effective way to bypass bulky Water-types like Vaporeon and Mantine on its own. Picking between STAB attacks is mostly up to preference. Overheat picks up notable KOs on the likes of Mudsdale, Stakataka, and Silvally-Ground after a Nasty Plot, whereas Fire Blast can be used consecutively without reducing the user's Special Attack. Similarly, Sludge Bomb offers a higher poison chance, while Sludge Wave is slightly stronger. Knock Off and Toxic both cripple common checks like Mantine, Vaporeon, and Gastrodon. Encore can also be considered to lock slow setup sweepers like Snorlax into unhelpful moves, making it easy for Salazzle to set up against and break through them. Heavy-Duty Boots means Salazzle is less reliant on effective entry hazard control, but Focus Sash helps avoid being revenge killed by faster Pokemon like Inteleon, Aerodactyl, and Choice Scarf users such as Passimian. A set with the moves Substitute / Toxic / Protect / Flamethrower and Black Sludge is good at crippling the opposition and letting Salazzle scout foes. Choice item sets are workable thanks to Salazzle's great natural Special Attack and Speed, but it lacks good coverage moves beyond its STAB attacks and Dragon Pulse and dislikes locking into moves such as Toxic and Knock Off.
Salazzle (SV competitive strategy): Nasty Plot Salazzle is one of PU's most threatening setup sweepers and wallbreakers thanks to its great STAB combo, ability to outspeed naturally fast attackers such as Delphox, Zoroark, and Scyther, and wide variety of utility moves to benefit its sweep. Fire Blast is used over Flamethrower due to the higher Base Power allowing Salazzle to achieve rolls such as OHKOing Bellibolt after a Nasty Plot and Stealth Rock. Salazzle's final moveslot is very flexible; Tera Blast Ground destroys Rock-types like Rhydon and Coalossal and also helps out against the Qwilfish formes. Encore can turn opposing setup sweepers like Decidueye and Paldean Tauros-F and walls such as Bronzong and Bellibolt into setup fodder and potentially deter them. Toxic cripples potential switch-ins like Gastrodon and Rhydon as well as the aforementioned setup sweepers and walls. Finally, Substitute allows Salazzle to capitalize on the switches it forces on Pokemon like Wo-Chien and Alolan Sandslash, letting it either set up safely or fire off a strong attack. Like Encore, it also allows Salazzle to work around its mediocre bulk. Both Trailblaze to boost Salazzle's Speed and Tera Blast Grass to allow Salazzle to hit Gastrodon are options as well, but they are niche due to not providing as much value compared to other moves. Focus Sash gives Salazzle an easier time setting up and securing KOes and lets it serve as an emergency check to a threat like Shift Gear Toxtricity. It should only be used on hyper offense teams, since other playstyles are more likely to let entry hazards go up and ruin Salazzle. Tera Dark allows Salazzle to gain a valuable defensive typing, allowing it to more easily set up on Psychic-types like Delphox and Hoopa. Alternatively, Tera Ghost also provides Salazzle setup opportunities—particularly against Choice-locked Fighting-types like Paldean Tauros-F and Emboar—and can allow it to be immune to priority from Arcanine and Scyther, although it comes at a cost of being weak to other priority such as Shadow Sneak from Decidueye and Sucker Punch from Bombirdier. Nasty Plot Salazzle finds itself on offense and hyper offense teams as well as on balance teams looking for a reliable wincon and attacker that can be valuable before setting up by spreading Toxic or enabling other setup sweepers with Encore. While strong, Salazzle can find itself struggling to break against offensive and defensive Water-types. like Qwilfish, Gastrodon, and Milotic, so checks to these threats like one's own Gastrodon, Kilowattrel, and Decidueye make good partners. In return, Salazzle can aid these Pokemon by chipping down their checks like Wo-Chien and Bronzong. Salazzle's relative frailty means that slow pivots like Bellibolt and Gligar that can sponge a hit for it and bring it onto the battlefield safely are also valued. Other offensive teammates that can struggle to reliably break through Water-types like Arcanine and Scream Tail can form a solid backbone with Salazzle, as they work together to take down their shared checks. Although fast, Salazzle itself can still be revenge killed by faster threats such as Kilowattrel and priority from Arcanine and Decidueye; thus, checks to these threats such as Gastrodon, Paldean Tauros-W, and Wo-Chien all make good partners. With Salazzle's deep utility movepool, it can act as great support Pokemon that lacks passivity thanks to its high Speed and its nearly unresisted STAB combination's damage output. Fire Blast is preferred for pure damage, but Flamethrower can be used instead for higher accuracy. Toxic + Corrosion allow Salazzle to break through bulkier Pokemon in the tier that other Pokemon simply can't like Galarian Slowbro, Qwilfish, and Gastrodon. Encore helps Salazzle take advantage of Pokemon that would otherwise wall it like Milotic, Gastrodon, and Mudsdale; however, Knock Off can be used instead to cripple item-reliant Pokemon like Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro, Gligar, and Duraludon. Tera Grass allows Salazzle to check Paldean Tauros-W and Golurk in a pinch. On the other hand, Tera Steel helps when facing Galarian Slowbro, Galarian Articuno, and Meloetta. Tera Ghost can also be used to ignore Fake Out and Extreme Speed from Ambipom and Arcanine, respectively, and in tandem with Encore, it can force them to continually do no damage to it, letting Salazzle attack freely. Salazzle easily handles Steel-types like Bronzong and Alolan Sandslash, so Pokemon that are checked by these walls work well alongside it like Florges, Galarian Articuno, and Grimmsnarl. If running Knock Off, Salazzle can help to chip away at opposing teams alongside entry hazard setters like Gligar, Gastrodon, and Alolan Sandslash. On top of this, Salazzle is also quite easily revenge killed by Choice Scarf users and naturally fast Pokemon like Staraptor, Flamigo, and Kilowattrel, so walls like Bellibolt and Gastrodon help it defensively.
Xerneas (XY competitive strategy): The most powerful and versatile Fairy-type available, Xerneas is capable of pulling off a variety of tricks and is able to do them well. The Geomancy set shapes the metagame around it, being one of the most dangerous albeit prepared-for sets in the tier. Although Xerneas's raw stats aren't particularly impressive in a single aspect, its defensive stats are solid and backed up by an above average HP stat, and its base 99 Speed allows Xerneas to outspeed several relevant threats in the Ubers tier. While base 131 Special Attack is good, it's not particularly high without a Special Attack boost or a Life Orb, as many other threats in the Ubers tier such as Mewtwo and Kyogre have higher raw offenses and Xerneas's coverage moves aren't boosted by Fairy Aura. Xerneas's ability functions as a buffed Life Orb for Moonblast without forfeiting the item slot or taking recoil, making offensive sets more potent and allowing defensive sets to hit hard without investment. Mono-Fairy typing is good defensively, granting only a few weaknesses along with a handy immunity to the Dragon type. Xerneas is capable of running many coverage moves, although most of these are either weak or have an accuracy drawback. It does have some good support moves such as Aromatherapy and Roar, but the lack of instant recovery means it has to run Rest on a defensive set. Furthermore, Xerneas is afflicted by all entry hazards and by all nonvolatile status, somewhat reducing its defensive synergy. Some Xerneas sets are vulnerable to Shadow Tag Mega Gengar, and Xerneas is impacted by the fact that the most common Pokemon in the tier, Primal Groudon, resists Moonblast. Geomancy turns Xerneas into a fast, powerful, and specially bulky setup sweeper at the cost of the item slot. Moonblast is the best Fairy-type move available to Xerneas and, when combined with the +2 Special Attack boost from Geomancy, STAB, and Fairy Aura, allows Xerneas to hit very hard. Thunder hits Ho-Oh, Primal Kyogre, Lugia, and most Steel-types. Thunder is always used over Thunderbolt because a super effective Thunderbolt is weaker than a Fairy Aura-boosted STAB Moonblast and thus not worth running. Aromatherapy is an alternate option to Thunder that trades hitting the aforementioned threats for the ability to support teammates in a pinch or remove status from Xerneas. Focus Blast rounds out Xerneas's coverage by hitting Primal Groudon, Ferrothorn, and some other Steel-types. Hidden Power Ground is an alternate, perfectly accurate coverage move that hits Primal Groudon just as hard as Focus Blast and hits Steel-types such as Klefki harder than Moonblast at the cost of not being able to hit Ferrothorn and a few threats such as Arceus-Steel as hard as Focus Blast. Hidden Power Rock hits Ho-Oh harder and more reliably than Thunder at the cost of missing out on hitting Primal Kyogre. Hidden Power Fire can be used to hit Ferrothorn just as hard as Focus Blast without accuracy issues while it also hits Mega Scizor very well and still handles Steel-types in general. Substitute is an option that allows Xerneas to avoid being hit with status. This is particularly useful against Pokemon that rely on Thunder Wave to halt a Xerneas sweep, as Xerneas can set up a Substitute on the turn the foe uses Thunder Wave or as Klefki comes in. It is also an effective move against some defensive Pokemon such as Aegislash and Blissey. Maximum Special Attack investment ensures that Xerneas hits as hard as possible once boosted so that it can effectively sweep; the most prominent benchmark is a guaranteed OHKO on maximum HP Arceus formes after Stealth Rock. 44 Speed EVs are used so that Xerneas is faster than Choice Scarf Genesect after a Geomancy boost. 28 Defense EVs give Genesect a Special Attack boost with Download and, when combined with the 184 HP EVs, they allow Xerneas to always survive a +2 standard Extreme Killer Arceus's Extreme Speed after Stealth Rock. A spread of 56 HP / 156 Def / 252 SpA / 44 Spe with a Modest nature can always survive +1 Adamant Mega Salamence's Return and gives Xerneas more physical bulk in general; however, it's 2HKOed by Life Orb Yveltal's Oblivion Wing much more often. A Power Herb allows Xerneas to set up Geomancy in a single turn. Unlike other setup sweepers such as Dragon Dance Mega Salamence and Extreme Killer Arceus, Geomancy Xerneas can only set up once because a Power Herb is a single-use item. This makes choosing when to set up perhaps the most important aspect of using Geomancy Xerneas. Usually it is not a good idea to set up when the opponent still has healthy Xerneas checks, because this gives up your one opportunity to sweep for little to gain. There are exceptions, however; Xerneas can set up in order to tear down a Pokemon such as Primal Groudon to pave a way for another Pokemon to sweep or can be used to force a trade with a troublesome Pokemon such as Klefki. In general, though, it is best not to set up Geomancy Xerneas until its checks have been eliminated or, more realistically, damaged enough to be blown past. The methods in which an offensive team checks Geomancy Xerneas are usually a different beast entirely. Such teams usually focus on a combination of damaging Xerneas on its setup turn along with the employment of a revenge killer such as Extreme Killer Arceus. Unlike defensive checks, offensive checks cannot be blown past in the same way; it is irrelevant how damaged the opponent's Extreme Killer Arceus or Mega Scizor is because they have priority over Xerneas. This means that unless you benefit from the trade that will occur by setting up Xerneas while a revenge killer is alive, it is best not to set up or, in a rare scenario, attempt to set up in a situation where you won't be damaged on the setup turn so much that you can be revenge killed. In both cases of knowing when to set up, you must be acquainted with what amount of damage Geomancy Xerneas is capable of taking and dealing. If the opponent has a Rayquaza with Extreme Speed in the back, determine how much you can afford to let Xerneas take when setting up. Similarly, know how much you need to have chipped away at the opposing Lugia before you are ready to sweep. Many teams use Primal Groudon as a check to Geomancy Xerneas, and this can be capitalized upon due to its lack of recovery. Rather than setting up Xerneas right away when a Primal Groudon switch-in is obvious, smack it with Moonblast as it comes in. Switch out, and repeat this the next time you can get Xerneas in for free; after taking two Moonblasts, even specially defensive Primal Groudon can be broken after setting up. Note that Geomancy Xerneas doesn't really want to switch into anything because it is most deadly as a sweeper when at full health. This set can afford to switch into offensive Yveltal; however, Oblivion Wing deals significant damage. Xerneas can be aggressively double switched with in order to break down its checks via offensive partners that perform well against said checks. Because Geomancy Xerneas is good at forcing switches, especially against defensive teams, this provides opportunities to bring in other offensive threats that can start blowing holes in the opposing defensive build. Xerneas has an immunity to Dragon-type moves, and although they are not extremely common, bringing Xerneas in on a predicted Draco Meteor is one of the better methods of getting it into play. In some matchups, a Geomancy Xerneas sweep will be difficult or not worth it; in such scenarios Xerneas can be used more as a team player to aggressively pivot against Pokemon such as Yveltal and Giratina-O. Primal Groudon is able to threaten virtually every Xerneas check that isn't Lugia, making it an excellent offensive partner for Geomancy Xerneas. Extreme Killer Arceus is a setup sweeper that pairs well with Geomancy Xerneas for offensive teams due to how they pressure similar checks. Arceus-Ghost is a great partner, as Xerneas can threaten Yveltal while Arceus-Ghost is immune to Extreme Speed and can break down several Xerneas checks with Will-O-Wisp or Judgment. Mega Salamence provides a method of threatening Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh, which are two of the most common checks to Geomancy Xerneas, and it also performs well against Extreme Killer Arceus; Refresh variants can also provide an excellent switch-in to Sacred Fire from Ho-Oh. Mega Gengar can be used to trap and eliminate several checks to Geomancy Xerneas or force them to trade with Destiny Bond, making it much easier for Xerneas to sweep later on. Arceus-Ground plows through almost all defensive Xerneas checks and provides an immunity to Thunder Wave. Darkrai can pressure the defensive backbone of an opposing team, as it is a very difficult Pokemon to switch into, making it easier for Xerneas to break down the foe. Mewtwo formes greatly appreciate Xerneas's ability to check Yveltal and in return can stallbreak against defensive builds that Xerneas may struggle with. Life Orb Zekrom effectively pressures Ho-Oh and can beat down Klefki and Primal Groudon with Bolt Strike and Draco Meteor, respectively. Giratina-O appreciates Xerneas checking Yveltal, can perform well against Primal Groudon, and offers an immunity to Fake Out and Extreme Speed. Lastly, setters of entry hazards make ensuring a Geomancy Xerneas sweep much easier, as Stealth Rock can ensure the KO on Lugia and Ho-Oh while Spikes can break down Primal Groudon and Steel-types. Moonblast is the primary attacking move for this set, as it's not a particularly bad move to be locked into and is the strongest move available for Choice Scarf Xerneas. It also has a good chance at lowering the foe's Special Attack one stage, which can be handy against special attackers that switch into Choice Scarf Xerneas. Focus Blast can hit most targets that resist Moonblast, such as Primal Groudon and Steel-types not named Aegislash. Sleep Talk allows Xerneas to directly switch into Darkrai's Dark Void and potentially knock it out before it can attack again. It also sees use against the rare Spore Smeargle. Aromatherapy allows Xerneas to provide emergency cleric support for its teammates. Thunder allows Xerneas to hit Ho-Oh, Primal Kyogre, and Lugia a bit harder. Grass Knot can hit Primal Groudon just as hard as Focus Blast without the risk of a miss while also hitting Primal Kyogre and a few other threats such as Arceus-Ground, Arceus-Rock, and Arceus-Water. It is possible to only run the moves Sleep Talk and Moonblast as to function as a more consistent Darkrai check at the cost of relinquishing coverage moves. Rock Slide hits Ho-Oh much harder than Thunder, but it doesn't hit anything else. 252 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature are used to maximize the damage output of Moonblast, better allowing Xerneas to revenge kill weakened threats and chip away at Pokemon such as Primal Groudon. 224 Speed EVs are used to outspeed +1 Rayquaza and Kyurem-W. 32 EVs are slotted to Defense to ensure that Genesect gets a Special Attack boost from Download. The set revolves around the use of a Choice Scarf, which allows Xerneas to revenge kill threats such as Darkrai, Mewtwo, Shaymin-S, Deoxys-A, and weakened Arceus formes. Running 252 Speed EVs is an option that allows Choice Scarf Xerneas to outspeed maximum Speed Deoxys-A and tie with opposing 252 Speed Choice Scarf Xerneas. If using Rock Slide, the 32 Defense EVs can be invested into Attack, which slightly increases the damage output of Rock Slide but fails to meet a specific benchmark. Capitalize on the ability to bluff a Geomancy set; this can allow a free KO on a Pokemon that assumed it was faster. One of this set's main draws is that it performs better against Darkrai than most Pokemon, although you mustn't switch it directly into an obvious Sludge Bomb or into Dark Void if you aren't running Sleep Talk. Be very aware of what move Xerneas is being locked into; for example, if your team is in a situation where it cannot afford to allow Mega Salamence to set up, do not KO a Pokemon with a move that is not Moonblast. Aromatherapy is best used on turns where you are certain that the opponent is going to switch because Xerneas is threatening one of their crucial Pokemon. However, if they are going to a Pokemon such as Double Dance Primal Groudon, make sure you can afford to give it one free turn. Prediction is unfortunately a large part of using this set. When considering what Pokemon is going to come in, consider other factors as well, such as risk associated with getting locked into this move against one possible switch-in versus the potential benefit to be gained by predicting correctly. Choice Scarf Xerneas is generally a pretty self-reliant set, although a few partners can offer offensive and defensive synergy. Primal Groudon is an effective partner that can deal significant damage to a wide range of typical Choice Scarf Xerneas switch-ins. Furthermore, it benefits from Xerneas's ability to threaten Darkrai and Yveltal. Mega Salamence can provide Choice Scarf Xerneas with a method of threatening Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh, both of which are commonly used to tank Moonblasts. Mega Gengar can eliminate or force a trade with a troublesome Pokemon so that Moonblast spam becomes much more potent. Arceus-Ghost and Giratina-O greatly benefit from Xerneas's ability to check Darkrai and Yveltal, and Arceus-Ghost performs well against Mega Gengar and can burn troublesome Steel-types with Will-O-Wisp. Latias and Latios also benefit from Xerneas's ability to check Dark-types, and they can offer anti-entry hazard support and threaten Primal Groudon. Arceus-Ground is capable of breaking down most checks to Choice Scarf Xerneas, while Arceus-Rock can provide a very stable switch-in for Ho-Oh. Though Xerneas's power after a Geomancy is frightening, the move can make Xerneas somewhat inflexible, as it only gets one chance to set up. Choice Specs allows Xerneas to retain a large degree of raw strength while making it more flexible as a hole puncher in the early- and mid-game. Moonblast becomes incredibly strong after Choice Specs, boasting enough power to 3HKO support Primal Groudon and nearly 2HKO Klefki, two of the most common switch-ins to Xerneas. Even Ho-Oh and Lugia are 2HKOed by Moonblast after Stealth Rock damage, making only Blissey and very bulky Steel-types safe from Xerneas's rampage. Hidden Power Fire cannot hurt Primal Groudon, but when compared to the alternative, Focus Blast, it keeps the same KOs against Ferrothorn and Klefki with better accuracy, destroys Mega Scizor, and can also be used to 3HKO very bulky Steel-types such as Aegislash, Bronzong, and defensive Jirachi. Focus Blast gives Xerneas an alternative weapon against Steel-types, decimating Ferrothorn and Excadrill and 2HKOing Klefki after Stealth Rock damage. Focus Blast even has about an 80% chance to 2HKO support Primal Groudon after Stealth Rock damage, though repeated Moonblasts will usually be sufficient to wear it down. Grass Knot gives Xerneas an accurate move for hitting Primal Groudon hard, doing as much damage as Focus Blast would. It also OHKOes Arceus formes that are weak to Grass-type moves after Stealth Rock damage. On the other hand, Thunder allows Xerneas to OHKO Ho-Oh after Stealth Rock damage and 2HKO Lugia through Multiscale while also allowing for a slightly stronger hit than Moonblast against Primal Kyogre. The last moves worth considering are Aromatherapy and Psyshock. Aromatherapy can let Xerneas support its team by clearing status, though most of the time it is better off attacking. Psyshock is Xerneas's best weapon against Blissey, 2HKOing it after Stealth Rock damage. It also does more damage to Ho-Oh than Moonblast. Sleep Talk deserves a special mention, as it allows Xerneas to switch into Darkrai that lack Sludge Bomb fearlessly and potentially bluff a Choice Scarf set, allowing it to then KO Darkrai next turn or force it out; however, it can only do this once, as a Life Orb boosted Thunder from Darkrai will KO Xerneas after Bad Dreams damage. A smart opponent will also do damage calculations against whatever comes in to check what item Xerneas is holding, essentially preventing you from bluffing the item more than once. It should be noted that if Sleep Talk is used, the moveset should consist purely of Moonblast and Sleep Talk to ensure Moonblast will always be used whenever Xerneas is asleep. A simple spread of 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe works here, as maximum Speed allows Xerneas to outspeed standard support Arceus formes, most Lugia sets, and any other Pokemon using a neutral nature below the 100 Speed tier. A Timid nature can be used if you wish to outspeed all Rayquaza variants and Modest Latios. Bring Xerneas in on something it can force to switch out and click Moonblast — it does a lot of damage even to Pokemon that resist it, so don't be afraid to spam it. Coverage moves are fine to use to try and snipe a certain switch-in, but caution should be exercised because Xerneas's coverage moves are either inaccurate or weak against neutral targets. Focus Blast and Thunder also give free turns to Mega Gengar and Primal Groudon, respectively, both dangerous foes against which you never usually want to do so. Try to get Stealth Rock up before unleashing Xerneas — it greatly inhibits Pokemon such as Ho-Oh and Lugia that would otherwise be able to switch in comfortably. Xerneas requires Stealth Rock support to keep Ho-Oh at bay and secure certain KOs. Primal Groudon is the best user of Stealth Rock in the metagame, though Tyranitar, Dialga, Bronzong, and Deoxys formes also make good options. Even with Stealth Rock, however, reliable switch-ins to Ho-Oh such as Arceus-Water, Arceus-Rock, and Refresh Mega Salamence are good partners. Powerful Fire-types such as Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh also make excellent partners to deal with Blissey and bulky Steel-types that can wall Xerneas. Knock Off Yveltal specifically makes for a good partner to ease with opposing Ho-Oh, Blissey, and Klefki. It also checks every defensive Steel-type that would switch into Xerneas. Lures such as Hidden Power Fire Latios and trappers such as Mega Gengar also make good alternative ways to deal with Steel-types. Choice Specs Xerneas is very efficient at wearing down Primal Groudon, so Pokemon that appreciate Primal Groudon weakened or KOed make fine teammates. Primal Kyogre is the most notable of these, as with Primal Groudon gone it can spam rain-boosted STAB Water-type attacks with near impunity. The list is quite extensive — Mega Salamence, Mega Gengar, Mewtwo, Mega Tyranitar, and Calm Mind Arceus-Rock all greatly appreciate having Primal Groudon taken down early. These Pokemon can also all help weaken Steel-types for Xerneas to break past later on. Moonblast hits especially hard with both Fairy Aura and a Life Orb, and it is the strongest STAB move available to Xerneas. Aromatherapy allows Xerneas to provide support to teammates, and it can be used on the turn Xerneas forces an opposing Pokemon out. Thunder hits Ho-Oh, Primal Kyogre, and Lugia hard and also hits a few Pokemon that resist Moonblast and resist or are immune to Fighting-type coverage moves, such as Aegislash and Arceus-Poison. Rock Slide hits Ho-Oh significantly harder than Thunder, but it doesn't hit any other targets. Close Combat is a physical Fighting-type move that can break through Blissey, and it can also hit most other Steel-types well. Focus Blast inflicts special damage on Steel-types and doesn't lower Xerneas's defenses, but the cost is reduced accuracy and struggling more against Blissey. Maximum Special Attack investment is used to ensure high damage output from Moonblast and Xerneas's special coverage moves. A Mild nature is preferred to better switch into Yveltal without forfeiting physical attacking power. Alternatively, a Rash nature is an option for teams that would rather benefit from Xerneas taking physical attacks such as priority moves. 224 Speed EVs are used to outspeed Adamant Rayquaza and all slower threats. The remaining 32 EVs are slotted into Attack, which raises the damage output of Close Combat slightly and increases the probability of Xerneas being able to OHKO standard Ho-Oh with Rock Slide. Xerneas should use a Modest nature if it is not using any physical attacks. A Life Orb gives Xerneas the means of hitting most targets hard either with its Fairy Aura-boosted STAB move or with the appropriate coverage move. An Expert Belt trades a bit of power in exchange for not taking recoil damage; the second benefit, however, is that Xerneas becomes very good at bluffing the much more common Geomancy or Choice Scarf sets. Although it's not nearly as good at bluffing a Geomancy set as the Choice Scarf set because the Life Orb recoil gives it away after one attack, this initial turn can still be used to make your opponent think you might set up. If using an Expert Belt, this advantage can be extended. Unlike the Geomancy set, this set does not have any bulk investment and is further impacted defensively by Life Orb recoil, so it shouldn't be sent into very many attacks, even if they are resisted. Because this set is strong immediately, it can be used to whittle down many conventional Geomancy Xerneas checks such as Primal Groudon and Klefki because they focus on eliminating a one-time threat. Make use of Aromatherapy support where needed, but be aware that if you aren't using it on the opponent's switch, it may be the last move Xerneas uses before being knocked out. This set doesn't need to worry nearly as much about prediction as the Choice Scarf set because Xerneas won't be locked into its moves and is faster than many of the targets of its coverage move anyway; for this reason, consider making safer plays than when using the Choice Scarf set. Primal Groudon can smash Steel-types and Ho-Oh, which may be troublesome for Xerneas to break down, and it benefits from Xerneas checking Yveltal. Calm Mind Arceus formes can be used to break down several Xerneas checks, while a surprise Rock Slide from Xerneas that KOes Ho-Oh can greatly assist Calm Mind Arceus; Calm Mind Arceus formes also benefit from cleric support provided by Aromatherapy. Mega Salamence also benefits from cleric support and can effectively threaten Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh. Calm Mind Primal Kyogre greatly benefits from the pressure that Xerneas can place on opposing Ferrothorn, Blissey, and Primal Groudon. Latias and Latios appreciate cleric support and Xerneas checking Yveltal, and in return they provide anti-hazard support, which can increase the number of times Xerneas can switch in. Giratina-O provides an immunity to Extreme Speed along with the ability to burn Steel-types with Will-O-Wisp, while Xerneas can check Yveltal in return. Users of U-turn and Volt Switch can provide more opportunities for Xerneas to come in, while entry hazard setters can help Xerneas break down Steel-types. Lastly, Healing Wish support can allow Xerneas another chance to wallbreak. Moonblast is by far the best choice for mono-attacking Xerneas, as no Pokemon are immune to the move and many relevant threats get slammed by it. Sleep Talk is used so that the two turns after the use of Rest aren't wasted it and allows Xerneas to directly switch into Dark Void and Spore as sleep fodder with little to lose. Rest is the only recovery move available to Xerneas, although it does fully restore health and eliminate status conditions. Aromatherapy is primarily for cleric support, but it also has a one in three chance to be selected by Sleep Talk, possibly resulting in a shortened Rest. Roar can be used to phaze Pokemon that may attempt to set up and can rack up residual damage from entry hazards. 248 HP EVs are used to significantly raise defensive Xerneas's mixed bulk. 252 Defense EVs with a Bold nature are used to maximize physical bulk, which helps Xerneas tank blows in a predominantly physical metagame. The remaining 8 EVs are slotted into Special Defense. Leftovers is the preferred held item, as it reduces the number of Pokemon capable of 3HKOing Xerneas while also helping to mitigate residual damage. Don't underestimate this set's physical bulk. Gyro Ball and Iron Head Aegislash deal pitiful damage, while even Primal Groudon doesn't deal significant damage unless boosted; this translates to having more opportunities to use Aromatherapy and having to use Rest not as frequently. There is a balance to maintain between using Rest too frequently and not enough. If not careful, a high damage roll or critical hit can finish Xerneas right before it has a chance to use Rest. However, using Rest too much means leaving Xerneas more exploitable during the turns it is asleep. Be very wary of Mega Gengar, which can easily trap and eliminate this set. Don't always count on Sleep Talk to produce Moonblast, Aromatherapy, or Roar; a third of the time, the turn will still be wasted if it selects Rest. A Pursuit trapper is wanted, as Mega Gengar is very threatening for this set and a means of eliminating it is the best solution. Primal Groudon appreciates the cleric support Xerneas provides and can threaten many common checks to Xerneas such as Steel-types and Ho-Oh. Mega Salamence also appreciates Aromatherapy support and can check Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh for Xerneas. Arceus-Ghost and Giratina-O benefit from cleric support and Xerneas's ability to check Yveltal, and in return Arceus-Ghost can burn Steel-types with Will-O-Wisp. Latios and Latias greatly appreciate cleric support and Xerneas's ability to check Yveltal, while they can check Primal Groudon and use Defog to remove entry hazards. Arceus-Ground can break through the Steel-types that can give defensive Xerneas trouble, and it can also check Primal Groudon. Lugia greatly benefits from cleric support and is a good defensive check for Primal Groudon. If using Roar, Xerneas benefits from having entry hazard setters as partners so that Roar deals residual damage upon phazing. Calm Mind boosts Xerneas's stats, but the advantages it has over Geomancy are that it can be set up more than once, can be set up consecutively, and doesn't forfeit the item slot. Sleep Talk is used so that turns spent Resting are not always wasted; this allows Xerneas to be able to continually set up Calm Mind or fire off some Moonblasts. Rest is needed in order to maintain longevity and it also removes status ailments such as Toxic, which would otherwise be problematic for this set. Moonblast is the best attacking move for mono-attacking Xerneas, as no Pokemon are immune to it, it is the strongest move available, and has a chance at lowering the opponent's Special Attack stat one stage. 248 HP EVs are used to increase overall bulk, which aids in the set up of Calm Mind and the use of Rest. 252 Defense EVs with a Bold nature are used to reduce the damage from physical attacks, especially from Aegislash and Primal Groudon. The remaining 8 EVs are placed into Special Defense. Leftovers helps to offset residual damage and makes it more difficult for foes to 3HKO Xerneas before it can use Rest. This set works best if kept hidden until the end of the match, when strong physical attackers have been eliminated; this makes it much more difficult for the opponent to dispose of this set. Calm Mind quickly allows Xerneas's special bulk to exceed its physical bulk, making it good at taking hits from a variety of attackers. Set up Calm Mind as needed, but be sure not to forget to keep Xerneas healthy enough to use Rest before being knocked out. This set can be used as a status sponge if needed, as Rest can eliminate status at a later time. Maintaining a balance of using Rest is important for this set; too little use means that Xerneas risks being knocked out in a later situation before it is able to heal, while too much use means that Xerneas risks being more vulnerable during turns asleep. Although this set is a passive Calm Mind user that fears phazing, this can be circumvented by using it as a final Pokemon. Note that unlike other Xerneas sets, Calm Mind Xerneas can set up against opposing Klefki. One of this set's greatest fears is Mega Gengar, so a Pursuit trapper that can eliminate it is much appreciated. Primal Groudon appreciates the check to Yveltal Xerneas provides and can threaten several checks to Xerneas such as Steel-types and Ho-Oh. Mega Salamence can check Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh for Xerneas. Arceus-Ghost and Giratina-O benefit from Xerneas's ability to check Yveltal, and in return Arceus-Ghost can burn troublesome Steel-types with Will-O-Wisp. Latios and Latias greatly appreciate Xerneas's ability to check Yveltal, and they can check Primal Groudon, and remove entry hazards with Defog. Hidden Power Fire Latios and Latias especially are great for wearing down Iron Head Aegislash and Ferrothorn. Arceus-Ground can break through the Steel-types that can give Calm Mind Xerneas trouble, and it can check Primal Groudon. Lastly, Lugia provides a good defensive check to Primal Groudon that also benefits from Xerneas's ability to check Dark-types. Megahorn on Choice Scarf Xerneas provides slightly higher damage on Mega Mewtwo Y and can be pulled from Sleep Talk to KO Darkrai, but it has little other use. A Pixie Plate on an offensive set is an option that makes Moonblast almost as strong as when boosted by a Life Orb and is very good at bluffing a Geomancy or Choice Scarf set, but opting for Pixie Plate means that coverage options deal less damage. Ingrain protects Xerneas from being phazed and helps alleviate residual damage. Thunder Wave can be used to punish switch-ins that aren't Primal Groudon and greatly impacts a variety of offensive threats, but it doesn't do much to defensive switch-ins. Toxic is usable on a defensive set to hit incoming Primal Groudon, Lugia, and Ho-Oh, although it can be a difficult move to fit. Block can be used in tandem with Rest on a Geomancy set to trap Klefki and allows Xerneas to remove paralysis and set up to +6, although such a set forgoes running coverage moves and isn't always useful in a match. Similarly, a RestTalk Geomancy set can be used along with a bulkier spread in order to break down teams that rely on methods of beating down or revenge killing Xerneas. Misty Terrain can be used to block status moves aimed at Xerneas and is particularly effective against Klefki. Flash Cannon might seem like an appealing move to hit other Fairy-types; however, because neutral Moonblast deals more damage than super effective Flash Cannon, it is nearly always useless.
Xerneas (SS competitive strategy): With Fairy Aura and Geomancy boosting its already strong Moonblast, Xerneas can become one of the most dangerous offensive sweepers in the metagame. Its coverage and utility options to prevent certain checks from beating it are all very great, giving it both versatility and effectiveness in all of its moveslots. Xerneas has fairly high natural bulk with a good typing, letting it also potentially wall many dangerous wallbreakers such as Zekrom, Zygarde, and Marshadow. Most of Xerneas's offensive power comes from Geomancy, though, meaning that if it is phazed or otherwise forced out, its effectiveness offensively is severely hurt, and defensive sets without it struggle to break through most walls in general. Power Herb Xerneas is a very dangerous sweeper, using its high Special Attack and Fairy Aura-boosted Moonblast to sweep teams after a Geomancy. Thunder is useful coverage for foes that shrug off Moonblast, most importantly Ho-Oh and Necrozma-DM. Substitute, Ingrain, and Aromatherapy are all very good support moves to complement the rest of its moveset. Substitute blocks potentially deadly status and lets Xerneas take any hit that could normally KO it, Ingrain prevents phazing and gives slight passive recovery—which can be crucial in the Ho-Oh matchup, and Aromatherapy clears status for Xerneas and its team, which is always beneficial with those being very common on Pokemon such as Eternatus and Necrozma-DM. 88 Speed EVs outrun Adamant Necrozma-DM with maximum Speed investment, as well as Jolly Marshadow if Xerneas switched into Sticky Web before using Geomancy. Leftover EVs go into Defense instead of HP because Geomancy already makes Xerneas very specially bulky. Strong special walls and Moonblast-resistant foes are some of the hardest obstacles for Xerneas. Physically offensive Yveltal with Taunt and Knock Off can support it on hyper offense teams, pressuring Blissey, Necrozma-DM, and Ho-Oh, removing Heavy-Duty Boots from the latter as to greatly hurt its longevity against Xerneas. Xerneas's incredible offensive presence lets it function well with a multitude of breakers to form a strong offensive core. Groudon and Zekrom add physically offensive pressure to complement Xerneas's special offense. Zygarde and Lunala are commonly used to check Groudon, which Xerneas can pressure, and Lunala and Necrozma-DM are common checks to Zekrom, which Zekrom and Xerneas can both work to overwhelm. Strong special lures on bulkier teams can assist Xerneas in sweeping also, working to overwhelm certain checks; Choice Specs Power Gem Dialga and Trick Calyrex-S can bait in and break down Ho-Oh, giving Xerneas a much easier time sweeping. RestTalk with Moonblast gives defensive Xerneas both the longevity and the ability to pressure certain offensive Pokemon that it needs to, letting it much more reliably beat targets like Zekrom, Marshadow, and Zygarde. Aromatherapy is amazing, as Sleep Talk can select it to wake Xerneas up early, while Defog is always welcome for entry hazard control, even though Xerneas loses to common hazard setters such as Necrozma-DM and Ferrothorn. Thunder Wave can sometimes be crucial for slowing down fast offensive threats. 252 Defense EVs lets Xerneas handle its main targets, with Leftovers for even more healing against them. Defensive Xerneas struggles to break through a lot of common defensive Pokemon, meaning it requires a good amount of offensive presence to support its passiveness. Necrozma-DM, Ho-Oh, Eternatus, and Blissey can all easily wall it, making Pokemon such as Zekrom, Dragon Dance Zygarde, and Marshadow incredible offensive partners to pressure these checks that also benefit from Aromatherapy. Xerneas also can't check a lot of Pokemon by itself, with threats such as Necrozma-DM and Calyrex-S being incredibly scary to face. Other defensive pivots that cover these Pokemon, most notably Yveltal and Ho-Oh, are greatly appreciated. Xerneas checking such dangerous threats as Zekrom and Zygarde is greatly appreciated by many defensive and offensive Pokemon alike weak to them. Ferrothorn can afford to run a specially defensive set to check Kyogre, since it doesn't have to work on beating those two Dragon-types, and Necrozma-DM is freed up a lot from not having to check Zekrom, so it can instead run a specially defensive set to cover bigger threats to it and Xerneas such as offensive Eternatus. Choice Scarf Xerneas functions as an extremely potent revenge killer and anti-offense tool. It can outspeed two of the most common Choice Scarf users in Kyogre and Galarian Darmanitan, as well as fast offensive threats such as Calyrex-S, Eternatus, Marshadow, Mewtwo, and +1 Zygarde, Zekrom, and Rayquaza. Thunder lets Xerneas deal decent damage to Ho-Oh and Necrozma-DM. Focus Blast can be run instead to hit Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Heatran harder. Thunder Wave can provide good utility to deal with the two aforementioned foes, giving ample opportunities for Xerneas's teammates to deal with them. Aromatherapy provides cleric support to offensive teams that Choice Scarf Xerneas fits in. Defog is an option over Thunder Wave if entry hazard removal is paramount and helps against Sticky Web teams, further enhancing Choice Scarf Xerneas's anti-offense capabilities. Choice Scarf Xerneas is mostly found on offense. U-turn Yveltal can bring it in safely against threats such as Marshadow and Urshifu-S and answer Calyrex-S. Groudon is a great teammate that can either set Stealth Rock or beat Steel-types that Xerneas struggles to break past, such as Necrozma-DM and Ferrothorn; it also threatens Ho-Oh with Stone Edge. Kyogre can force Necrozma-DM and Ho-Oh out and make Xerneas's Thunder 100% accurate by setting rain. Strong wallbreakers such as Dragon Dance Zekrom and Rayquaza, Meteor Beam Eternatus, Marshadow, and Swords Dance Weavile allow Xerneas to sweep. Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM is another fantastic partner, checking opposing Geomancy Xerneas and luring in and removing Ho-Oh with Stone Edge. Psyshock works as an option on Geomancy variants, letting Xerneas reliably break through Blissey and Chansey. This comes with Xerneas losing one of its utility options, all of which are very good, giving it a heavy opportunity cost. Focus Blast is similarly a usable coverage option, but it only hits a few targets like Ferrothorn. Defensive Xerneas can run Heavy-Duty Boots as the item, benefitting from it long term against entry hazard chip damage. The lack of recovery is quite noticeable, though, as Xerneas really likes recovering without having to use Rest.
Dragalge (XY competitive strategy): Based on stats alone, there are much more powerful specially based available Dragon-types such as Latios and Latias; why would you use a Pokemon with a mere base 97 Special Attack? Furthermore, Dragalge is the slowest fully evolved Dragon-type in the game. Alongside its defensive typing, and in the context of the OU metagame, this means it has to worry about being revenge killed by many top-tier threats, including Mega Charizard X, Excadrill, Landorus-T, Mega Alakazam, Mega Medicham, and Latios. However, by virtue of that same defensive typing, Dragalge is able to find a place on many teams as a tank, capable of handling many common threats, including Mega Charizard Y, Keldeo, Gengar, Clefable, Manaphy, Mega Manectric, Rotom-W, Thundurus, and Mega Venusaur. Regardless of the set, Dragalge's ability Adaptability (which bolsters the power of its STAB moves by a total factor of 2), is a great boon. Dragalge is also able to differentiate itself from other Dragon-types thanks to its access to STAB Sludge Wave, which powers through many common Fairy-types, including Clefable, as well as its secondary Poison typing, which renders it neutral to Fairy-type moves to which Latios or Latias would fall. Dragalge also provides additional utility with Toxic Spikes, which allows it to cut into the longevity of foes such as Substitute Calm Mind Keldeo. However, do not assume Dragalge needs Toxic Spikes to function; it can also use a devastating Choice Specs set capable of achieving feats such as OHKOing Mew, Keldeo, and Zapdos. Draco Meteor is an obscenely powerful STAB move that hits everything except Fairy- and Steel-types neutrally. If setting Toxic Spikes isn't ideal at the time, you should generally use this move, because it'll hit almost all switch-ins very hard. Sludge Wave complements Draco Meteor, as it hits Fairy-types super effectively. Additionally, Dragalge is neutral to Fairy-type moves, and thus can switch in on many Fairy-types and destroy them with Sludge Wave. Focus Blast covers the Steel-types that Dragalge's STAB moves cannot, such as Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Bisharp. However, Hidden Power Fire can be used if you'd prefer having better accuracy and the ability to hit Mega Scizor and don't mind not being able to handle Heatran. Toxic Spikes spreads the poisoned or badly poisoned status to all grounded foes, which greatly benefits your team by inhibiting opposing setup Pokemon, including Unaware Clefable and Substitute Keldeo. 28 Speed EVs are used to outspeed Hippowdon, which would otherwise 2HKO with Earthquake. Maximum Special Attack EVs are used so that Dragalge can hit as hard as possible, and the rest of the EVs are put in HP so that Dragalge has good mixed bulk. 140 Speed EVs, at the expense of HP, can be used if you need Dragalge to outspeed Clefable, hitting it with a powerful Sludge Wave before it can use Calm Mind, or Tyranitar, so that Dragalge can hit it with Focus Blast. If Dragalge is using Hidden Power Fire, Tyranitar isn't necessary to outspeed, so only 136 Speed EVs would be needed. Draco Plate is typically the item of choice, as it boosts the power of Dragalge's most-used move, Draco Meteor, by 1.2 without causing recoil. However, if this extra damage is not needed, Black Sludge also is a great choice, as it gives Dragalge the passive recovery needed to switch into Pokemon less riskily. Use Dragalge's amazing defensive typing to switch into numerous Pokemon, including Mega Charizard Y, Keldeo, Clefable, Manaphy, Mega Manectric, Rotom-W, Magnezone, Thundurus, and Mega Venusaur. Once in, Dragalge can either use its offensive or defensive advantage to set up Toxic Spikes, which greatly hurts your opponent's grounded setup sweepers' chances of setting up, or fire off powerful moves. Draco Meteor, especially when boosted by Draco Plate, is immensely powerful, and it lets Dragalge do as much damage as possible to threats such as Raikou, Keldeo, Mew, and Rotom-W. However, Sludge Wave is more consistent and should be used both when the Draco Meteor's Special Attack cut is unappealing and in order to stop a Clefable sweep. Basically, your mentality when using Dragalge should be to decide when it's right to attack and when it's right to set up Toxic Spikes. Be wary of using Toxic Spikes when you know Dragalge won't be able to get up a second layer, as that could result in having many foes being poisoned instead of badly poisoned, which isn't ideal because the goal is to wear them down rather than apply more short-term chip damage. Magnezone can trap Steel-types such as Jirachi, which are very troublesome for Dragalge to face, even considering its access to Focus Blast. Grounded Poison-types, such as Amoonguss and Tentacruel, remove Dragalge's Toxic Spikes, so Reuniclus, which can set up on them, and Pokemon such as Landorus-T and Mega Alakazam, which can revenge kill them, make for good teammates. Physical wallbreakers such as Victini and Heracross can also prove to be spectacular teammates for their ability to demolish Chansey. Because Psychic-types such as Mega Gardevoir and Latios can easily revenge kill Dragalge, a Pursuit trapper such as Tyranitar can make for a great teammate. Mega Metagross can also be a great teammate because it can check many of these bulky Psychic-types, including Gardevoir and Latios. Ferrothorn can prove to be a spectacular teammate, as it resists or can usually switch in on the Dragon-, Ice-, and Ground-types moves Dragalge is weak to, while Dragalge can switch into the Fire- and Fighting- type moves Ferrothorn is weak to. Add this to Ferrothorn's access to Spikes and Stealth Rock, and the two can make a great entry hazard-setting defensive pair for balanced and bulky offensive teams. Dragalge is prone to being revenge killed by Ground-types, such as Excadrill, Landorus-T, and Landorus, so to remedy this weakness, Rotom-W, Mandibuzz, and Manaphy can serve as great teammates. Teams that this Dragalge variant is a part of often rely, to a varying degree, on Toxic Spikes to function. If these entry hazards get Defogged or spun away, the team loses a substantial part of its wincon. Bisharp can add offensive pressure in an effort to prevent Defog, and it also boasts a fair matchup against two premier Defoggers, Latios and Latias, while Ghost-types such as Mega Sableye can act as Rapid Spin blockers. Despite not running Special Attack EVs, Dragalge still can hit very hard with Draco Meteor, which has great neutral coverage and OHKOes Gengar after considering Stealth Rock or Life Orb damage. Dragon Pulse is another viable option, which is substantially weaker but doesn't force Dragalge out after its use. It relegates Sludge Wave as Dragalge's most powerful move, if chosen over Draco Meteor, and therefore Dragon Pulse should only be used against Dragon- and Ground-types on the switch, as well as on Gengar. Be wary that unlike Draco Meteor, Dragon Pulse can never OHKO Gengar. However, Dragon Pulse performs better against Substitute variants of Gengar and is overall more consistent than Draco Meteor. Sludge Wave is a complementary STAB move to Dragalge's Dragon-type STAB move of choice, as it hits Fairy-types such as Clefable. The move is also useful for stinging Grass-types such as Celebi and Serperior much more than Draco Meteor. Scald hits Steel-types, which resist or are immune to Dragalge's STAB moves, neutrally and has a very useful burn chance, which can allow Dragalge to stay in relatively comfortably on physical attackers that would otherwise force it out. It's also a good move to use on a predicted switch, as almost nothing can switch into Scald without risking a burn. Toxic Spikes spreads the poisoned or badly poisoned status to all grounded foes and is especially useful for stopping setup sweepers such as Quiver Dance Volcarona, Calm Mind Keldeo, and Calm Mind Unaware Clefable. 28 Speed EVs are used to outspeed Hippowdon, which would otherwise outspeed and 2HKO with Earthquake. 248 EVs are put in HP for maximum mixed walling potential, and the rest are put in Special Defense, as Dragalge should opt to specialize in walling specially based Pokemon. Black Sludge is used for constant recovery, which ameliorates Dragalge's chances of countering Pokemon such as Gengar when factoring in Stealth Rock damage. Despite its low HP, Dragalge is remarkably specially bulky, and you should exploit this by switching into Pokemon Dragalge's typing can handle. Mega Charizard Y, Keldeo, Clefable, Manaphy, Mega Manectric, Rotom-W, Magnezone, Thundurus, and Mega Venusaur are all examples of Pokemon that Dragalge easily can switch into. Additionally, with the added bulk, Dragalge becomes a safe (but not foolproof) counter to Life Orb Gengar, which is remarkably hard to check. The name of the game with defensive Dragalge is getting into something that it can handle. If it hard walls the foe (in the case of Mega Venusaur, for example), Dragalge should set up Toxic Spikes in order to cripple the opponent's team, and if it can't completely counter the foe but can do immense damage (such as with Gengar and Draco Meteor), Dragalge should go for the KO. However, in most scenarios, your primary goal with Dragalge shouldn't be to attack, as Toxic Spikes will often prove to be more essential as your team's win condition. Opposing Poison-types remove Toxic Spikes, so useful teammates include Reuniclus to set up on them and Landorus-T as well as Life Orb Alakazam to revenge kill them. Strong physical wallbreakers such as Mega Heracross and Victini as well as utility Mega Sableye with Taunt and Knock Off can also deal with Chansey. Mega Sableye doubles as a way to protect Dragalge's Toxic Spikes from being spun away, and the same can be said for Bisharp and the entry hazards being Defogged away. Because of their defensive synergy and entry hazard coverage, Dragalge and Ferrothorn make for great teammates on defensive teams. Dragalge is prone to being revenge killed by Ground-types such as Excadrill, Landorus-T, and Landorus, so to aid this problem, Rotom-W, Mandibuzz, and Manaphy can serve as great teammates. Psychic-types such as Mega Gardevoir and Latios can easily revenge kill Dragalge. A Pursuit trapper such as Choice Scarf Tyranitar can thus make for a great teammate. Mega Metagross can also check many bulky Psychic-types, including Gardevoir and Latios. Draco Meteor is the move Dragalge will be using the vast majority of the time. Thanks to the move's massive 130 Base Power, Adaptability boost, and Choice Specs boost, it is able to do a massive amount of damage to anything but Fairy-types, Chansey, and Blissey. It's able to OHKO frailer Steel-types such as Bisharp as well as 252 / 0 Mew after Stealth Rock damage. Fairy-types, the absolute best switch-ins to Draco Meteor, are, barring Klefki, annihilated by Dragalge's secondary STAB move, Sludge Wave. Sludge Wave also gives Dragalge a much more reliable STAB move with which it can hit both Grass-types and neutral targets hard without having to suffer from Draco Meteor's Special Attack drop. Focus Blast allows Dragalge to hit common Steel-type switch-ins, such as Ferrothorn, Bisharp, and Heatran as well as Tyranitar. However, if you don't mind being worse off against Heatran, and would much rather have better accuracy and the ability to demolish Mega Scizor, Hidden Power Fire can be used in lieu of Focus Blast. Scald lets Dragalge check Heatran, mostly if Dragalge isn't running Focus Blast. Scald doubles as a move with almost no drawbacks, and it can be used early-game to fish for a burn on some of Dragalge's most common switch-ins, such as Klefki, Jirachi, and Mega Metagross. In order to outspeed Hippowdon, which would otherwise cripple Dragalge with Earthquake, it's recommended for Dragalge to run 28 Speed EVs. Because Dragalge is a specially based wallbreaker, maximum Special Attack EVs are used. Likewise, Choice Specs is the recommended item for the set, as it is capable of boosting all of Dragalge's moves to their highest possible power. The remaining EVs are thrown into HP because Dragalge enjoys having mixed bulk. 140 Speed EVs, at expense of HP, can be used if you desire Dragalge to outspeed Calm Mind Clefable and Tyranitar so that Dragalge can hit them with Sludge Wave or Focus Blast, respectively. If Dragalge is using Hidden Power Fire, only 136 Speed EVs would be needed, as outspeeding Tyranitar wouldn't be a priority. Dragalge has excellent special bulk, respectable physical bulk, and a unique defensive typing; exploit all of these characteristics! Dragalge can easily pivot into many threatening Pokemon in OU, including Keldeo, Mega Charizard Y, Rotom-W, Mega Manectric, Raikou, Clefable, and Thundurus; tank a hit; and proceed to fire off a ridiculously powerful move on whatever decides to switch in. The majority of the time, the only button you'll be clicking is Draco Meteor, but if the opponent has bulky Steel- or Fairy-types, more prediction will be necessary. Don't be too shy about using Sludge Wave; despite its lower power compared to Draco Meteor, it still can accomplish absurd feats such as OHKOing Keldeo after factoring in Stealth Rock damage. Despite Dragalge's access to Focus Blast, Hidden Power Fire, and Scald, it is still going to have immense troubles with Steel-types. Magnezone is an excellent partner for its trapping ability. Dragalge's low Speed and four common weaknesses also leave it prone to being revenge killed. For instance, Psychic-types, such as Mega Gardevoir and Latios, can easily KO Dragalge after Draco Meteor's Special Attack drop. A Pursuit trapper, such as Tyranitar, is thus a useful teammate. Mega Metagross also makes for a great teammate because of its ability to check both Mega Gardevoir and Latios. Finally, Dragalge is prone to being revenge killed by Excadrill; to remedy this weakness, Rotom-W and Celebi can serve as great teammates. Trick Room staples such as Bronzong, Cresselia, Porygon2, and Crawdaunt can make for good teammates as well, as Dragalge's terrible Speed stat, while normally a huge flaw, can allow it to sweep under Trick Room. Defensive cores are also plausible, as Dragalge, even without any Special Defense investment, has solid bulk and a great typing. Skarmory resists all of Dragalge's weaknesses except Ice, while Dragalge resists both of Skarmory's weaknesses. Needless to say, these two work really well together, with Dragalge able to deal out serious damage and act as a generic check to special attackers and Skarmory acting as a mixed wall capable of setting and removing entry hazards. Unaware Clefable also can make for a good teammate, as it can heal off any damage Dragalge might take with Wish. It also can serve as a lure for Poison-type moves, which gives Dragalge opportunities to switch in, and heal off any burns Dragalge might have taken with Heal Bell. Other Fairy-types, including Azumarill, Gardevoir, and Sylveon, can similarly lure in Poison-types for Dragalge to switch into. Mega Gyarados also can make for a good teammate; Dragalge can KO Keldeo, Dragon-types, Azumarill, Chesnaught, and Ferrothorn for Mega Gyarados, while Mega Gyarados can set up on Ground-types and Heatran, both of which give Dragalge trouble. Mega Diancie also makes for a good teammate, as it and Dragalge have a lot of checks in common and therefore can break down the other Pokemon's answers. Dragalge baits in and wears down Mega Scizor and Ferrothorn, which opens up the opportunity to sweep for Diancie. In turn, Diancie can take on Jirachi and Heatran better than Dragalge can thanks to its access to Earth Power. Haze is a really great move for any set lacking Choice Specs, as it eases the checking or countering of many setup sweepers, including Clefable, Mega Sableye, Volcarona, and Keldeo, by reducing their stat gains as well as bringing Dragalge's Special Attack back to normal after using Draco Meteor. RestTalk can be useful on defensive sets whose teams don't desire Toxic Spikes. The RestTalk combination allows Dragalge to constantly heal off status as well as damage taken, and therefore lets Dragalge be a much more reliable counter to Mega Charizard Y, Rotom-W, and Gengar. Toxic poisons potential switch-ins to defensive sets, such as Talonflame, that are immune to Toxic Spikes. Dragon Tail hits nowhere near as hard as Dragalge's other Dragon-type STAB moves, but it can be useful for its ability to phaze foes. It can work well in tandem with Toxic Spikes, spreading the poisoned or badly poisoned statuses to grounded foes. Hydro Pump is an alternative for the fourth slot on the Choice Specs set. Basically, it does more damage to specially defensive Heatran than Scald does while having better accuracy than Focus Blast. Sludge Bomb is a possibility over Sludge Wave; it trades 5 Base Power and the ability to hit Chesnaught for a 20% increase in the chance to poison. Venoshock hits very hard against poisoned foes, which makes it pair well with sets involving Toxic Spikes, but against targets that aren't poisoned it's very weak. Substitute can be useful, as if used on the switch it allows Dragalge to do massive damage to the foe that is forced to break the Substitute. It, however, must be used in lieu of Scald, a STAB move, or Toxic Spikes, which are all extremely important to any set's success.
Dragalge (SM competitive strategy): Dragalge is a versatile Pokemon with access to an amazing ability in Adaptability and a stellar movepool to boot, utilizing moves such as Draco Meteor, Sludge Bomb, and Focus Blast to break through Fairy-types such as Florges much more easily than other Dragon-types. Boasting a Poison / Dragon typing, Dragalge is able to switch into many threatening offensive Pokemon in the RU tier such as Ninetales, Virizion, Raikou, Salazzle, Toxicroak, and Roserade. Dragalge's access to Toxic Spikes and ability to absorb them are what really forms its niche in the tier, giving it an edge over other special Dragon-types like Goodra, which it faces heavy competition from because of the latter's better Speed and coverage. However, Dragalge is cursed with being one of the slowest Pokemon in the tier and is prone to being forced out by offensive pressure due to its very lacking Speed tier, which makes it very susceptible to being revenge killed by faster Pokemon like Necrozma, Gardevoir, and Zygarde-10%. In addition, Dragalge's lack of reliable recovery makes it extremely susceptible to chip damage, which can hinder it throughout the game. Dragalge can also be forced out and Pursuit trapped for quite a bit of damage by Pokemon like Metagross and Drapion, which hinders its ability to comfortably beat Salazzle. Draco Meteor is Dragalge's strongest STAB move; with the boost from Adaptability and Dragalge's decent Special Attack stat, it is able to significantly damage almost any Pokemon that doesn't resist it. Sludge Bomb is used to hit Grass and Fairy-types like Virizion and Florges. It is also more spammable than Draco Meteor due to it not dropping Dragalge's Special Attack stat after repeated use, and its 30% poison chance means you can fish for poison against walls like Porygon2, Mantine, and Cresselia. Focus Blast allows Dragalge to hit Steel-types that would otherwise wall it such as Registeel, Metagross, Escavalier, and Forretress. Toxic Spikes allows Dragalge to spread poison against grounded Pokemon. This lets Dragalge’s teammates break the opposing team a lot easier. Investing 52 EVs in Speed will allow Dragalge to outrun neutral-natured base 50s like Donphan, Diancie, and Registeel. Maximum Special Attack with a Modest nature increases Dragalge's damage output to insane amounts. The rest of the EVs are invested into HP, maximizing Dragalge's potential bulk. Choice Specs gives Dragalge an immediate boost to its Special Attack, turning it into a potent wallbreaker that can easily punch holes through opposing teams. Dragonium Z can be used for an ridiculously powerful one time nuke with 195 Base Power that ignores the effects of Draco Meteor so your Special Attack doesn't drop. Hidden Power Fire can be used as a reliable alternative to Focus Blast, as it can OHKO both Forretress and offensive Escavalier and does more damage to Metagross whereas Choice Specs Focus Blast can miss and still doesn't 2HKO Registeel after a Protect. You should pivot Dragalge into Pokemon it can handle such as Ninetales, Virizion, Arcanine, Salazzle, and Roserade. However, Dragalge can't freely pivot around, as it does not possess any form of recovery, meaning that it will lose a massive amount of health throughout the game if you switch it in too liberally, which will ultimately cripple it's ability to break walls consistently. On forced switches, it's often more useful to set Toxic Spikes with Dragalge rather than attacking. It's often fine to set Toxic Spikes with its Choice Specs set, too, but you should also attempt to break walls down more, so assess which is more useful. If your opponent has Pokemon that can combat Toxic Spikes, such as Metagross, Toxicroak, and Salazzle, focus more on attacking rather than using turns to get up layers of Toxic Spikes. While Draco Meteor is extremely powerful, try not to use it an excessive amount of times, due to your Special Attack dropping with each use. However, Sludge Bomb can freely be used since it does not drop Dragalge's Special Attack like Draco Meteor. Sludge Bomb also has a Poison chance which can be useful if you're unable to get up Toxic Spikes. Dragalge's main appeal is Toxic Spikes, meaning that it particularly shines on balance and bulky offense teams. Because of this, Pokemon that can use Dragalge’s Toxic Spikes to their advantage by stalling out poison turns like Raikou and Mega Sceptile make for excellent teammates. It's important to have entry hazard removal to make sure that Dragalge isn't chipped by hazards, so Pokemon like Mega Blastoise make for good teammates. Additionally, Mega Blastoise can also take on the Ice-types that can be annoying for Dragalge to deal with. Steel-types like Bronzong, Metagross, and Registeel provide a solid check to Psychic-types like Gardevoir for Dragalge. They can also set Stealth Rock, forming a strong hazard stacking core. Ground-types such as Rhyperior, Donphan, and Zygarde-10% can pressure Poison-types that are able to absorb Dragalge's Toxic Spikes, giving it more freedom to set entry hazards. Because Ground-types are good checks to Dragalge, it's important to possess check to them like Virizion and Shaymin. In return, Dragalge is able to wall the Poison-types that they struggle against, like Roserade. Pokemon that learn Spikes such as Golisopod, Roserade, and Forretress can form a strong hazard stacking core alongside Dragalge. A defensive set with Black Sludge and Protect can work, but this set isn’t very good when compared to Dragalge's offensive set because it isn’t able to switch into as many foes and apply the offensive pressure that Dragalge normally should. Other coverage, such as Hidden Power Fire or Shadow Ball can be run to hit Steel-types like Metagross, Escavalier and Bronzong more accurately, but besides them it isn't optimal in comparison to Focus Blast. Sludge Wave gets a guaranteed OHKO on Virizion without Choice Specs, unlike Sludge Bomb, but the increased poison chance is more useful in most situations.
Dragalge (SS competitive strategy): Dragalge has a solid niche in RU as a bulky pivot with access to Toxic Spikes and a good offensive presence that checks common threats such as Raikou, Xurkitree, and Roserade. Unfortunately, it has no reliable recovery, mediocre physical bulk, and a typing leaving it weak to common threats such as Zygarde-10%, Metagross, and Noivern. Flip Turn allows Dragalge to pivot out on its typical switch-ins such as Registeel and Klefki, gain momentum, and bring teammates safely onto the battlefield. Toxic Spikes helps to wear down bulky Pokemon such as Milotic, Assault Vest Reuniclus, and Porygon2 for teammates. Scald can be used instead, however, to hit Steelix and Stakataka super effectively and have a good chance to punish switch-ins such as Registeel and Metagross with a burn. However, in most cases Dragalge will use Flip Turn against switch-ins rather than Scald. Protect alongside Black Sludge is an option to gain free turns of recovery and scout moves from Choice item users, although it makes Dragalge slightly more passive. 132 Speed EVs let Dragalge outspeed uninvested Sylveon, Galarian Weezing, and slow Incinceroar variants, while 252 HP EVs enable it to better check special attackers such as Raikou, Xurkitree, and Chandelure. The remaining EVs alongside a Modest nature give Dragalge a better offensive presence. Heavy-Duty Boots prevents entry hazard damage to make Dragalge a more reliable pivot. However, Black Sludge can be used instead for extra passive recovery, even without Protect. Since Dragalge baits bulky Steel-types such as Registeel, Klefki, and Metagross onto the battlefield and pivots out on them with Flip Turn, Pokemon that take advantage of said Steel-types such as Heracross, Chandelure, and Zygarde-10% are great teammates. Volt Switch and U-turn users such as Zarude, Mienshao, and Cobalion form a good VoltTurn core with Dragalge and also bait Fairy- and Fire-types such as Togekiss, Galarian Weezing, Incineroar, and Chandelure onto the battlefield, of which Dragalge takes advantage. Bulky Steel-types like Steelix and Metagross are good teammates to take on Dragon-, Psychic-, and Ice-types like Noivern, Indeedee, and Cloyster. Zarude, Golisopod, and Celebi check troublesome Ground-types like Zygarde-10% and Rhyperior. Golisopod and Celebi also form a good hazard stacking core with Dragalge. Pokemon such as Nasty Plot Thundurus, Calm Mind Reuniclus, and Suicune benefit from Dragalge's Toxic Spikes wearing down their typical checks and counters. An entry hazard remover like Noivern, Togekiss, or Starmie is helpful if Dragalge is not running Heavy-Duty Boots, since entry hazards limit its pivoting. Sylveon and Umbreon provide Wish support, increasing Dragalge's longevity.
Dragalge (SV competitive strategy): Dragalge is a staple in NU thanks to its great typing, utility movepool, and access to Adaptability, which let it successfully fulfill both offensive and defensive roles. Bulkier sets can come in on walls like Vileplume and take advantage of them by setting Toxic Spikes, causing the rest of their team to suffer. On the other hand, Choice Specs sets provide a ton of nuking power with Adaptability, allowing Dragalge to break through former counters like Umbreon and Registeel. However, Dragalge lacks good Speed, meaning it often can't retaliate before strong attackers overwhelm it. Bulkier sets are also held back due to a lack of access to recovery moves and Dragalge’s below-average HP. Dragalge’s typing too, at times, can be somewhat limiting, since Ground- and Steel-types are fairly common in NU. Toxic Spikes allows Dragalge to chip away at walls, while Dragon Tail can phaze Dragalge’s checks as well as setup sweepers. Flip Turn works amazingly on Dragalge, letting it act as a bulky pivot that can bring in powerful wallbreakers. The given EV spread allows Dragalge to outspeed Vileplume while giving it some physical bulk to aid with Fighting-types like Mienshao and Infernape. Tera Steel allows Dragalge to take Psychic-, Fairy-, and Dragon-type attacks from foes like Munkidori, Sylveon, and opposing Dragalge. On the other hand, Tera Water alleviates its weakness to Ground-type attacks while giving it an overall strong defensive typing. Toxic Spikes lowers switch rates when your opponent tries to play around them, so Pokemon that can scare out Poison-types and cause switches like Flygon and Future Sight Galarian Articuno can overwhelm your opponents. Partners that can bring in physically defensive Pokemon such as Mienshao and Infernape gift Dragalge with chances to set Toxic Spikes. In the face of Steel-types like Klefki and Copperajah, Dragalge fails to do much, so partners that can take advantage of its Flip Turn and deal with these pests, like Gallade, Mienshao, and Flare Blitz Talonflame, work well. Opposing Dragon- and Fairy-type Pokemon also cause issues for Dragalge, as they’re usually faster and can severely damage or KO Dragalge before it can react. Teammates that help alleviate this weakness such as Sylveon, Registeel, and Copperajah are appreciated. Dragalge’s limited HP also hinders it; to ensure its survival for longer, entry hazard removers or Wish users like Talonflame, Brambleghast, and Vaporeon can be used. Pokemon like Vileplume and Tsareena that can handle more offensive Ground-types such as Flygon and Torterra can help out Dragalge. Sludge Wave is preferred for damage output, but Sludge Bomb can more reliably poison specially defensive Pokemon like Gastrodon and Umbreon. Focus Blast can heavily dent many Steel-types on the switch-in like Registeel, Klefki, and Copperajah. Tera Blast Ground can be used instead to hit these targets more accurately and powerfully along with Alolan Muk; however, this comes at the cost of Terastallizing, making it not as favored of an option overall. For the last move, a way to pivot in Flip Turn is preferred to bring a partner in on a wall it would otherwise have trouble with. The given EVs let Dragalge outpace Vaporeon and Umbreon with the rest poured into HP. An alternative and bulkier EV spread of 120 HP / 252 SpA / 136 Spe can be run, as it gives Dragalge enough Speed to outrun uninvested Sylveon. Tera Poison grants Dragalge a resistance to Fairy while also powering Sludge Wave to preposterous levels; however, a more defensive Tera type like Tera Steel could be used to help Dragalge retaliate after surviving Psychic- and Dragon-type attacks. Dragalge’s low Speed tends to hinder it a lot, but this can be negated with pivot cores. Dragalge draws in Steel-types, but it can use Flip Turn to let Mienshao or Flygon handle them. On the other hand, Mienshao and Flygon themselves can use U-turn after drawing in a physical wall like Vileplume or Quagsire, which Dragalge preys on. Dragalge can also whittle down Steel-types like Copperajah and Registeel over time with a strong Focus Blast, so Pokemon that can take advantage of this such as Munkidori, Reuniclus, and Calm Mind Sylveon enjoy its presence. Special walls like Alolan Muk, Gastrodon, and Registeel love to come in on Dragalge, so strong physical wallbreakers like Gallade and Incineroar work well to deal with these checks. Scald can be used on bulkier Dragalge sets to try to burn checks like Copperajah and Klefki, but this causes Dragalge to lose out on pressure in Toxic Spikes or momentum in Flip Turn. A moveset consisting of Substitute / Sludge Bomb / Dragon Pulse / Focus Blast or Tera Blast Ground can be used with Leftovers to significantly capitalize on forced switches and take advantage of more passive Pokemon. But this can hurt Dragalge's longevity quite a bit, and, in general, opportunities aren’t too common.
Indeedee (SS competitive strategy): Indeedee-M's primary role in the RU tier is as a wallbreaker that is capable of pushing past many neutrally hit, specially bulky targets. Mystical Fire hammers the likes of Steelix and Metagross for super effective damage while also lowering the Special Attack of switch-ins like Assault Vest Reuniclus, thus making it easier for Indeedee-M's teammates to switch into them. Shadow Ball can be used for a stronger hit against Assault Vest Reuniclus, while maintaining coverage against Metagross and Bronzong, but in turn misses out certain Steel-types like Registeel and Klefki. Hyper Voice is an alternative STAB move that gives Indeedee-M a more reliable move to lock into if Dark-types like Incineroar or Pangoro are present, notably being Indeedee-M's strongest option against the former. Trick can cripple special walls like Umbreon and Registeel to make it even easier for Indeedee-M's team to deal with them, but losing its Choice Specs makes Indeedee-M much less effective at breaking down defensive cores. Dazzling Gleam OHKOes Guzzlord and can 2HKO Umbreon after some prior damage. Indeedee-M appreciates teammates that can handle extremely bulky Psychic-type answers, particularly Umbreon and Registeel. Fighting-types such as Lucario and Heracross can handle these threats and clean up late-game once Indeedee-M has broken down an opponent's defensive core. Spikes support from Roserade and Klefki is also appreciated, as it can allow Indeedee-M to push past Umbreon on its own with Dazzling Gleam while also exploiting Registeel's lack of reliable recovery on repeated switch-ins. Faster threats, such as Crobat, Choice Scarf Xurkitreee, and Choice Scarf Heracross have problems switching in but can easily revenge kill Indeedee-M. Pokemon like Metagross and Nidoqueen can check these threats and set Stealth Rock. Sharpedo and Cloyster are powerful late-game cleaners that benefit from Psychic Terrain protecting them from dangerous priority moves. Pokemon such as Milotic and Flygon can utilize pivot moves to effectively switch in Indeedee-M on favorable matchups. Indeedee-M's good Speed and Psychic Surge-boosted Expanding Force allows it to revenge kill numerous RU staples, such as Noivern, Raikou, and Crobat, with a Choice Scarf equipped. Mystical Fire 2HKOes bulkless Metagross and can make it easier for teammates to switch into Psychic-resistant Pokemon, such as Reuniclus. Hyper Voice hits Incineroar the hardest and does more to Psychic-types like Gardevoir and Starmie. Trick is essential for crippling special walls like Registeel, Umbreon, and Porygon2. Indeedee-M has a very hard time with special walls, particularly Umbreon, Registeel, and Porygon2. This makes Pangoro, Lucario, and Heracross great teammates, as they can easily remove these special walls and weaken most defensive Pokemon in general with their powerful attacks. Flygon is a troublesome faster Choice Scarf user that can revenge kill Indeedee-M, thus making Togekiss and Vileplume good teammate options. Togekiss can utilize a Nasty Plot set to weaken or outright remove Steel-types for Indeedee-M, while Vileplume can potentially punish U-turns with Effect Spore. Spikes from Roserade and Klefki is also appreciated, as all of the special walls Indeedee-M struggles with are vulnerable to the entry hazard. Late-game cleaners, such as Sharpedo and Cloyster, that appreciate Psychic Terrain protecting them from opposing priority moves are good choices to use with Indeedee-M as well.
Arboliva (SV competitive strategy): Arboliva serves as a devastating wallbreaker, utilizing its excellent STAB combination and solid coverage to OHKO or 2HKO almost the entire tier. Hyper Voice serves as an excellent neutral attack, dealing massive damage to foes like Charizard, Rotom-C, and Whimsicott. Leaf Storm is preferred as its Grass-type STAB, maximizing damage against special walls like Snorlax while potentially OHKOing foes like Mesprit and Spiritomb. Earth Power helps Arboliva hit Perrserker and Muk while Alluring Voice serves as effective coverage against the likes of Virizion and Lurantis while being an excellent tertiary STAB option post Terastallization. Tera Fairy is used for survivability reasons, flipping its matchup against foes like Passimian and the previously mentioned Virizion. The given EV spread allows Arboliva to outpace Regirock and Weezing to avoid being threatened by their super effective attacks before it can break them. Arboliva greatly appreciates pivoting teammates that can help safely bring it in like Lanturn, Vikavolt, and Passimian, with it working alongside them to break down opposing teams. Physically offensive teammates like Hisuian Sneasel, Glastrier, and Lycanroc appreciate Arboliva's ability to threaten massive damage to defensive foes like Lanturn, Regirock, and Spiritomb; in turn, they pressure walls Arboliva struggles with Snorlax. Entry hazard support from the likes of Sandslash and Mesprit help augment Arboliva's wallbreaking, making damage stick on the likes of Snorlax and Muk while potentially pushing them into range to be 2HKOed by Leaf Storm and Hyper Voice, respectively. Defensive Mesprit is a particularly excellent teammate for Arboliva, as it is able to provide a variety of utility options between Knock Off to remove Eviolite and Leftovers, U-turn for momentum, hazard support with Stealth Rock, and Encore to stop Snorlax in its tracks. It also works well with Arboliva defensively, where the former handles Fighting-type foes, while the latter handles Ghost-types like Trevenant and Spiritomb. Defensive teammates like Regirock, Lanturn, and Weezing help cover for Arboliva’s weaknesses to common threats like Charizard, Sneasel, and Virizion. Arboliva is a solid bulky attacker in ZU due to its incredible longevity from the combination of Leech Seed, Leftovers, and Grassy Terrain and formidable defensive and offensive stats. Outside of Steel-types, such as Magneton and Orthworm, and Trevenant, both of which still do not enjoy switching into Arboliva's attacks, the combination of Leaf Storm and Hyper Voice is unresisted in ZU. Giga Drain is a solid alternative to Leaf Storm that helps in prolonged one-on-ones but lacks immediate power; Leaf Storm can pickup 2HKOs on foes like Mesprit and Whimsicott. Leech Seed helps Arboliva fend off many Pokemon, especially in tandem with Strength Sap, which is great when up against slower attackers such as Snorlax. Protect can be ran instead, which lets Arboliva safely accumulate healing. 92 Speed EVs let Arboliva outspeed base 50 Speed Pokemon such as Muk and Regirock. Tera Poison and Tera Ghost help Arboliva turn the tables on the plethora of Fighting-types in ZU such as Passimian and Hisuian Sneasel. While Ghost provides a Fighting immunity, Poison is usually preferred due to its immunity to poison and neutrality to Dark. Bulky attacker Arboliva fits on slower-paced bulky offense and balance teams and works best when paired with Pokemon that are able to make great use of the Grassy Terrain it provides such as Muk and Spiritomb. Arboliva's worst matchup is Venusaur, which is immune to Leech Seed, is able to shrug off Arboliva's Grass-type attacks, and make progress with Knock Off or Sludge Bomb, so Pokemon who are well equipped at dealing with Venusaur such as Muk, Cryogonal and Orthworm make for solid teammates. Spiritomb provides a solid switch-in to Fighting- and Poison-type attacks, while Grassy Terrain creates many setup opportunities for it. Other Fighting- and Poison-resistant Pokemon like Sandslash and Weezing also work well. Regirock and Snorlax are great switch-ins to Fire-types such as Charizard and Magmortar, and they also enjoy the passive recovery Grassy Terrain provides. Arboliva is often a liability against setup sweepers, especially against Quiver Dance users like Oricorio-F and Lilligant, which makes some sort of setup prevention, like Prankster Encore from Whimsicott and Sableye or Roar from Charizard, preferred. Eject Pack allows for a one-time free entry for Arboliva's teammates after a Leaf Storm; however, with how long Arboliva tends to stay on the field, missing out on Leftovers recovery ends up not being worth it most of the time. On top of that, it is mostly outclassed as a bulky Eject Pack user by Alolan Exeggutor, which is equipped with more threatening Draco Meteor and a better defensive typing, and Venusaur, which doesn't miss Leftovers as much thanks to Synthesis. An EV spread that invests in Defense instead of Special Attack can be used to help bolster the team's defensive core against Pokemon such as Basculin. However, in this case, Grass-types such as Venusaur, Dipplin, and Shaymin are preferred for their better matchup into Fighting-types like Hitmontop and Passimian.
Sinistcha (SV competitive strategy): Sinistcha is a potent setup sweeper thanks to a variety of tools at its disposal: high Special Attack, great Defense, Heatproof, Calm Mind to shore up its Special Defense, and access to healing through Matcha Gotcha and Strength Sap, which can both also cripple opposing physical attackers. Strength Sap provides a way to get bigger bursts of recovery while also lowering the opponent's Attack, letting Sinistcha take hits from the likes of Lokix and Hisuian Arcanine and in turn use them to set up Calm Mind. Heatproof provides Sinistcha with a neutrality to Fire-type attacks, which is useful for taking on Hisuian Arcanine. Leftovers provides passive recovery alongside Sinistcha's healing moves, while Heavy-Duty Boots keeps it healthy through repeated switches. 96 Speed EVs let Sinistcha outspeed Adamant Azumarill, with the rest invested to maximize its physical bulk. Tera Poison allows Sinistcha to avoid Toxic from Mandibuzz and Toxapex while still maintaining a resistance to Fighting-type attacks, as well as preventing Toxic Chain, while Tera Fairy can be used instead to help Sinistcha check Latios and Hydrapple while gaining a resistance to Dark-type moves from Tyranitar and Greninja. However, both of these Tera types take away Sinistcha's ability to spinblock, and Tera Poison makes it significantly weaker to Excadrill, so Sinistcha should only be Terastallized when necessary. Sinistcha fits particularly well on hazard stacking teams, where entry hazard setters like Excadrill, Cobalion, Sandy Shocks, and Rhyperior benefit from its spinblocking and incredible matchup against Excadrill, the tier's best Rapid Spinner. In turn, Excadrill provides an answer to Latios, which can threaten Sinistcha if it doesn't have any Calm Mind boosts yet, especially if it is using Tera Poison. Cobalion also makes an excellent teammate, using Justified to provide a great answer to many Dark-types, like Mandibuzz, which otherwise easily uses Defog in front of Sinistcha, and Zarude, which resists both of Sinistcha's STAB moves and heals off burns with Jungle Healing. Rhyperior and Sandy Shocks are teammates that can both pressure both Heatran and Tornadus-T, which outspeed and threaten Sinistcha. Tornadus-T takes advantage of unboosted Sinistcha's middling Special Defense to OHKO it after minor chip damage, and Zarude easily 2HKOes Sinistcha with Knock Off, so teammates like Latios and Lokix that deal significant damage to them are appreciated. Skeledirge is a particularly annoying Pokemon for Sinistcha to deal with thanks to Unaware, so it needs teammates like Hisuian Arcanine and Greninja that can handle Skeledirge; these two also pressure the Flying-types that give Sinistcha issues.
Excadrill (BW competitive strategy): Excadrill is one of the best Pokemon in the tier. Its excellent defensive typing and decent natural bulk make it able to switch into Pokemon like Latios, Tyranitar, Reuniclus lacking Focus Blast, and Jirachi. It is hard to wear down because of its 4x resistance to Stealth Rock and immunity to sand; this means Excadrill recovers more health from Leftovers and can effectively run Protect, making it even harder to wear down. It is incredible offensively because it's so strong and has good STAB attacks, which makes it hard to defensively answer, and Sand Force and Mold Breaker further this by changing how the opponent has to approach handling Excadrill. Because of these things and being able to threaten the most common entry hazard setters in the tier, mainly Tyranitar, Heatran, Jirachi, and Ferrothorn, it's the best spinner in the tier. This ability to support its team so well makes Excadrill work with many of the best Pokemon in the tier, and as such, it fits on a wide variety of teams and is pretty much always useful in a game. However, it doesn't have the greatest natural Speed tier, so it can be offensively checked by Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Keldeo. It also has common weaknesses, which means it needs to be careful around the Pokemon it usually wants to come in on, mainly Latios and Tyranitar, since they run super effective coverage. On top of this, good checks like Air Balloon + Magnet Rise Magnezone, Garchomp, Landorus-T, Keldeo, Rotom-W, Skarmory, and Gliscor are also quite common, which limits its overall viability and ability to come in. Protect in tandem with Leftovers lets Excadrill stay at high health as well as scout potentially Choice-locked Pokemon like Landorus-T, Terrakion, Tyranitar, Latios, and Garchomp. Rapid Spin lets Excadrill greatly support its entry hazard-susceptible teammates as well as itself and uses the move well thanks to being very hard to spinblock. Rock Slide has some potential utility with Sand Force sets due to doing a good amount of damage to Rotom-W, Thundurus-T, and Skarmory while also denting Gyarados quite heavily. However, it's hard to fit and doesn't have much utility outside of these specific targets. Sand Force is the preferred ability on this set, as it lets Excadrill nail a 2HKO on Ferrothorn and Reuniclus with Earthquake while also 2HKOing Choice Scarf Landorus-T that don't have much bulk investment and Poison Heal Breloom with Iron Head. A Jolly nature can also be used for teams especially weak to Timid Heatran while also outspeeding Adamant Dragonite and Mamoswine. However, this leaves Excadrill unable to get the important damage benchmarks mentioned above. Mold Breaker lets Excadrill use Earthquake more freely against teams that rely on Rotom-W or Latios as their primary pivot to Earthquake. A spread of 252 Atk / 124 SpD / 132 Spe with an Adamant nature can be used to outspeed maximum Speed Jolly Tyranitar, Adamant Breloom, and Modest Politoed and take attacks like Draco Meteor from Latios better. Attempt to get Excadrill in via a double switch or into resisted or weak attacks like Tyranitar's Crunch, Reuniclus's Psychic or Hidden Power Ice, and any of Amoonguss's attacks. Use Protect to scout a Choice-locked Pokemon, gain health from Leftovers, and rack up residual damage with sand and a potential Toxic poison or burn. If you need to spin away entry hazards, do it on a forced switch or a weak or resisted attack like Reuniclus's Hidden Power Ice. Do not take a lot of unnecessary damage; this set doesn't have as much bulk, meaning it may be unable to take an important hit such as Latios's Dragon Pulse late-game if its health dips too low. If up against a rain team, use Excadrill to spin Ferrothorn's entry hazards away throughout the game and force chip damage on Politoed to aid in winning the weather war. Excadrill can also threaten Tentacruel out should it be healthy enough, since Scald doesn't OHKO it. If predicting a counter such as Skarmory, Gliscor, or Rotom-W if Excadrill is running Sand Force to come in, switch into an answer to these Pokemon to maintain momentum and pressure. Pay attention to which Pokemon heals from Leftovers first against opposing Excadrill and Heatran because whether Excadrill can offensively answer them is contingent on it being faster. If Excadrill is slower, switch out. Tyranitar is this set's best partner, as it lets Excadrill run Sand Force while also setting Stealth Rock and trapping potentially problematic Pokemon such as Alakazam, Jellicent, and Thundurus-T. It can even attempt to lure in and OHKO Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Skarmory with Ice Beam and Fire Blast to make Excadrill even harder to check. Excadrill, meanwhile, can act as a backup Reuniclus measure and handle most Steel-types that may give Tyranitar a hard time based on its coverage. Latios can check Keldeo, Gliscor, and Rotom-W while also busting holes in other walls alongside it. In return, Excadrill is able to handle or heavily damage Tyranitar and most of the Steel-types that trouble Latios. Keldeo makes for an excellent partner because it beats the Ground- and Steel-types Excadrill can't, namely Gliscor, Hippowdon, and Skarmory. The Toxic + Protect set, in particular, is an excellent partner, as it spreads more residual damage, which Excadrill can take advantage of with Protect, and lets it break through Pokemon like Rotom-W and Thundurus-T over time. Meanwhile, Excadrill handles Reuniclus, non-Stun Spore Amoonguss, and Latios to an extent so Keldeo can more easily spread Toxic poison while also spinning; this is particularly helpful due to Keldeo's lack of recovery outside of Leftovers, which is usually getting negated by sand. Rotom-W takes on opposing Sand Force Excadrill, Politoed, Choice Scarf Keldeo, Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Mamoswine while burning said Pokemon; except for Gliscor; and even gets Excadrill in safely via Volt Switch. Excadrill can threaten Pokemon such as Reuniclus, Tyranitar, and Latios in return. It can even bait Latios into locking into Surf so Rotom-W can come in and get off a free Pain Split or Will-O-Wisp. Poison Heal Breloom can take care of Choice Scarf Keldeo, Rotom-W, Politoed, and Gliscor lacking a Flying-type move, while Excadrill can handle Reuniclus and Tornadus. Ferrothorn is able to set entry hazards, can use Knock Off to remove Leftovers and Rocky Helmet from Pokemon such as Skarmory, Ferrothorn, Rotom-W, and Politoed so Excadrill's damage sticks more in the long-term, and is a good Water-type and Latios switch-in. Excadrill is able to check Reuniclus and Jirachi in return while spinning away Spikes so Ferrothorn is able to check Latios more easily throughout the game. Reuniclus enjoys Excadrill's ability to handle the Steel-types that trouble it, mainly Jirachi and opposing Excadrill, to facilitate a Calm Mind sweep while also taking advantage of Excadrill handling Tyranitar very well. Reuniclus is able to beat Toxic + Protect Keldeo, Gliscor, and Skarmory for Excadrill while even beating Choice Band Terrakion in tandem with Excadrill, as Excadrill can scout what move Terrakion locks into with Protect and takes Stone Edge, while Reuniclus takes Close Combat. Swords Dance turns Excadrill into a dangerous wallbreaker that can tear through slower-paced teams, especially with the sand provided by Tyranitar or Hippowdon. Earthquake threatens key targets like Jirachi, Heatran, and Tyranitar and smashes neutral targets like Ferrothorn and Politoed, especially after a boost. Iron Head is a valuable second STAB option that targets many Pokemon either resistant or immune to Earthquake, such as Celebi, Latios, and Dragonite. Iron Head's ability to hugely damage Landorus-T and Gliscor deserves a special mention, thanks to their physical resiliency and reliability at answering Excadrill short-term. Rock Slide complements Earthquake, providing near-perfect neutral coverage and targeting Rock-weak Flying-types such as Thundurus-T and Dragonite for huge damage while more effectively damaging Skarmory and Rotom-W. Lastly, Rapid Spin allows Excadrill to compress roles and provide its team with a method of keeping entry hazards off the field. Excadrill can struggle to immediately threaten its usual answers, such as Rotom-W, Skarmory, and Gliscor, so Rapid Spin can reliably undo the progress made by the opposing team by supporting hazard-weak teammates. Sand Force is the preferred ability thanks to the peerless wallbreaking it provides to Excadrill when active, but Mold Breaker invalidates Rotom-W as a check and eases prediction against Latios and Latias, both of which may try to switch in on an Earthquake. The given EV spread with an Adamant nature lets Excadrill hit as hard as possible and cleanly OHKO Ferrothorn at +2 after activating Sand Force. Alternatively, Excadrill can run 192 Speed EVs to outpace Adamant Mamoswine and Dragonite, allowing it to invest more EVs in bulk. Jolly is an option to guarantee the Speed tie for opposing Excadrill, as well as outrun less common positive Speed nature Pokemon above Adamant Excadrill's range, such as Mamoswine, Dragonite, and Heatran. Leftovers is preferred to extend Excadrill's longevity. This Excadrill set is most commonly used on sand teams, where it benefits from the extra power provided by Sand Force, and its team can benefit from its role compression of a Swords Dance sweeper and an entry hazard remover in one team slot. Tyranitar and Hippowdon are great partners for Excadrill, as the sand they provide boosts the power of Excadrill's STAB options. Both sand setters greatly appreciate having entry hazards kept off the field, giving them more opportunities to switch in and maintain the sand should it be replaced by a different weather condition. Tyranitar provides support for Excadrill in other ways, such as using Thunder Wave to cripple faster foes like Keldeo and Alakazam, trapping and eliminating Latios with Pursuit, and setting up Stealth Rock for its team. Hippowdon has better longevity and solidly answers Ground-types like Landorus-T and opposing Excadrill, allowing it to reliably set up Stealth Rock over longer games, and its access to Whirlwind can foil setup sweepers that attempt to overcome the rest of their team. Hippowdon can also choose to run Toxic, which severely cripples Rotom-W and Landorus-T's ability to answer Excadrill. Pivot support from Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Rotom-W is very beneficial, as they can bring Excadrill in safely via U-turn and Volt Switch. Landorus-T and Rotom-W are especially notable, as Landorus-T handles Terrakion, Rotom-W threatens Skarmory and Starmie, and both pivots take on Ground-types like Gliscor and opposing Landorus-T that threaten Excadrill. In return, they appreciate Excadrill keeping hazards off the field so that they can chain momentum without Stealth Rock getting in the way. Psychic-types like Reuniclus, Alakazam, and Latios complement Excadrill very well, as they can handle Rotom-W and Fighting-types like Keldeo, Breloom, and Terrakion. Alakazam can also preserve its Focus Sash to check hyper offense threats like Dragonite and Starmie, while Latios switches into Fire- and Water-, and occasionally Ground- and Fighting-type attacks aimed at Excadrill. Excadrill, in return, can easily take Dark-type attacks aimed at Latios, making an ideal defensive pairing. Fighting-type partners like Keldeo and Terrakion are also solid teammates for Excadrill, as they appreciate the removal of entry hazards, can solidly answer the likes of Volcarona, and aid Excadrill in pressuring its checks like Scizor, Politoed, and Thundurus-T. Ferrothorn and Skarmory provide Spikes support, digging into Pokemon that attempt to answer it like Garchomp and Politoed, and allowing Excadrill to more easily overwhelm teams after its answers are weakened or eliminated. Ferrothorn also has the benefit of pressuring Starmie and providing Knock Off support to remove important items like Leftovers from Thundurus-T and Rocky Helmet from Skarmory, while Skarmory switches into Ground-type attacks aimed at Excadrill, reliably answering and wearing down Landorus-T and Gliscor over a longer game. Magnezone traps and eliminates Skarmory, taking a lot of pressure off of Excadrill. Heatran sets up Stealth Rock and can bait in and eliminate Politoed and Rotom-W with Magma Storm and either Hidden Power Grass, Toxic, or the combination of Sunny Day and Solar Beam, removing a major roadblock for sand teams that Swords Dance Excadrill finds itself on. Bulky Grass-types like Celebi and Amoonguss also form a solid partnership with Excadrill, as they can handle Water- and Fighting-types that give Excadrill trouble like Politoed, Keldeo, and Breloom. Celebi also has the benefit of switching into Scald and shrugging off the burn thanks to Natural Cure, and it sends Tentacruel packing with Psychic, while Amoonguss provides paralysis support with Stun Spore to cripple faster targets like Thundurus-T. Additionally, both Grass-types, especially Amoonguss, greatly appreciate the removal of entry hazards, allowing them to stick around to handle the aforementioned Water- and Fighting-types. Rapid Spin lets Excadrill support teammates weak to entry hazards and itself and uses the move well because it can force switches well and take a hit or two from common Stealth Rock setters like Tyranitar and Jirachi. Toxic is able to cripple the majority of Pokemon that can switch into Excadrill, such as Politoed, Landorus-T, Tangrowth, Hippowdon, and Jellicent, while also nailing other miscellaneous threats like Keldeo, Garchomp, Thundurus-T, and Latios. Alternatively, Excadrill can viably use Stealth Rock thanks to effectively threatening spinners. Additionally, its overall bulk in tandem with Protect and Leftovers lets it stay healthy and scout potentially Choice-locked Pokemon like opposing Excadrill, Mienshao, Tyranitar, Landorus-T, and Latios. This EV spread outspeeds uninvested Landorus-T as well as maximum Speed neutral nature Tyranitar. The rest of the EVs guarantee maximum Leftovers recovery and make Excadrill able to come in on Latios, Tyranitar, and Tornadus more comfortably while taking at least one super effective attack from them and most other special attackers. This Excadrill is meant to stay around throughout the game and dissuade Pokemon such as Latios from spamming their STAB moves and makes pivoting around them and Tyranitar easier for its team. When up against Ferrothorn, avoid spinning away its entry hazards before scouting for Knock Off or Leech Seed, as these moves make it so Ferrothorn will win the matchup. It's also a better idea to play out the game and wear Ferrothorn down over time with residual damage from burn or entry hazards so Excadrill can KO it and spin away the entry hazards for good. Use Protect to get back health and scout a Pokemon that has good potential to be Choice-locked like Latios, Tyranitar, or Landorus-T. Pay attention to which Pokemon heals from Leftovers first against Pokemon like Rotom-W and opposing Excadrill because whether Excadrill can offensively answer them is contingent on it being faster. If it's slower, it should switch out. When expecting a switch into a Pokemon that can check Excadrill, like Gliscor or Skarmory, switch Excadrill out as they come in to not lose momentum. Rotom-W takes on opposing Sand Force Excadrill, Politoed, Choice Scarf Keldeo, Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Mamoswine while burning said Pokemon, except for Gliscor, and even gets Excadrill in safely via Volt Switch. Excadrill can switch into Reuniclus, Tyranitar, and Latios in return. It can even bait Latios into locking into Surf so Rotom-W can come in and get off a free Pain Split or Will-O-Wisp. Tyranitar can run Stealth Rock, letting Excadrill more freely run Toxic while also trapping potentially problematic Pokemon such as Reuniclus, Jellicent, and Thundurus-T. It can even attempt to lure in and KO Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Skarmory with Ice Beam and Fire Blast so Excadrill is not as easily answered, and sand chips down some of its answers. Excadrill, meanwhile, can act as a backup Reuniclus switch-in and handle most Steel-types that may give Tyranitar a hard time based on its coverage. Reuniclus enjoys Excadrill's ability to handle Pokemon that trouble it, mainly Jirachi, Tyranitar, and opposing Excadrill, to facilitate a Calm Mind sweep. Reuniclus is able to beat Toxic + Protect and Choice Scarf Keldeo, Gliscor, and Skarmory for Excadrill while even beating Choice Band Terrakion in tandem with Excadrill, as Excadrill can scout what move Terrakion locks into and takes Stone Edge, while Reuniclus takes Close Combat. Heatran can work together with Excadrill on Toxic + sand-based teams to suffocate the opponent over time with residual damage. Heatran also handles Breloom, Ferrothorn, and Scizor while setting Stealth Rock, which lets Excadrill run Toxic more freely. Latios can check Keldeo, Gliscor, and Rotom-W while weakening Ferrothorn and the opposing team in general. In return, Excadrill is able to handle most of the Steel-types that trouble Latios and comes in on and handles Tyranitar. Keldeo makes for an excellent partner, as it beats the Ground- and Steel-types that Excadrill can't handle, like Gliscor, Hippowdon, and Skarmory. The Toxic + Protect set in particular is a great partner, as it spreads more residual damage that Excadrill can take advantage of with Protect. Meanwhile, Excadrill handles Alakazam, Reuniclus, and Latios to an extent for Keldeo so it can more easily spread Toxic poison while spreading Toxic poison itself. Ferrothorn is able to set entry hazards, use Knock Off to remove Leftovers and Rocky Helmet from Pokemon such as Skarmory, Ferrothorn, Rotom-W, and Politoed so Excadrill's damage sticks for longer, and be a good Water-type and Latios switch-in. Excadrill is able to check Reuniclus and Substitute Jirachi in return while spinning away Spikes so Ferrothorn is able to check Latios more easily throughout the game. Substitute + Dragon Dance Dragonite is a great partner for Excadrill, as it takes advantage of Excadrill removing Stealth Rock to very easily get up a Substitute on many Pokemon while also liking Excadrill handling Jirachi and Gyro Ball Ferrothorn to an extent and badly poisoning bulky Water-types. Amoonguss can take care of Keldeo, Rotom-W, Politoed, and Gliscor if running Hidden Power Ice, while Excadrill can handle Reuniclus, Substitute Jirachi, and Latios for it. Rapid Spin lets Excadrill assist its teammates, and, because this set is much faster than the others, it's also able to safely generate more switches to spin on. However, Excadrill is easily exploited when locked into Rapid Spin. Rock Slide should mainly be used on Sand Force sets, as it gives Excadrill a good move to hit Rotom-W while also targeting Thundurus-T and Gyarados. Toxic is an option to cripple Landorus-T, Slowbro, Hippowdon, Tangrowth, and other offensive switch-ins. However, it's incredibly punishable to lock into and doesn't work on other common counters like Gliscor and Skarmory. Sand Force is the preferred ability on this set because it lets Excadrill 2HKO Ferrothorn and Reuniclus with Earthquake in sand while also 2HKOing Choice Scarf Landorus-T that don't have much bulk investment and Poison Heal Breloom with Iron Head. An Adamant nature should be used with this ability. Mold Breaker lets Excadrill use Earthquake more freely against teams that rely on Rotom-W or Latios as their primary pivot to Earthquake. Adamant is able to get the aforementioned 2HKOs with Sand Force, while Jolly can outspeed Pokemon like +1 Jolly Dragonite, slower variants of Choice Scarf Landorus-T, and opposing Adamant Excadrill. Swords Dance + Rapid Spin can be used on rain teams, as it grants them a Jirachi and Reuniclus answer that can give entry hazard control. However, rain teams are typically better off running Tentacruel as a spinner. Air Balloon can be used to completely wall Gliscor lacking an attack besides Earthquake and Landorus-T locked into Earthquake while also making Excadrill immune to Spikes. However, it breaks upon taking any hit and leaves Excadrill without Leftovers recovery or even a boost to Speed like Choice Scarf would grant. Air Balloon is best used on a Swords Dance + 3 Attacks set with Iron Head, Earthquake, and Rock Slide. Choice Band Excadrill can be a fierce wallbreaker, especially with Sand Force. However, Excadrill doesn't have a move that isn't very punishing to lock into and much prefers getting Leftovers recovery so it can come in throughout the game much more easily.
Excadrill (XY competitive strategy): Excadrill's unique typing, stat distribution, access to both Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin, and abilities in Sand Rush and Mold Breaker make it a significant offensive threat in the OU tier. Its typing allows it to check Electric- and Fairy-types consistently. Excadrill is one of the most consistent answers to Clefable, thanks to resisting Moonblast, being immune to Thunder Wave, and hitting back hard with STAB Iron Head. Excadrill is also one of the best spinners in the tier, able to threaten common Stealth Rock users like Heatran, Clefable, and Tyranitar. With Leftovers and double resistance to Stealth Rock, Excadrill becomes one of the best and most consistent Rapid Spin users in the metagame. Thanks to Mold Breaker, Excadrill can threaten Levitate Pokemon with Earthquake, get Stealth Rock up against Mega Diancie, and get past Unaware Pokemon with Swords Dance. If Sand Rush is used, Excadrill becomes an incredible offensive threat, outspeeding the majority of the meta under sand and being able to revenge kill many threats such as +1 Volcarona and Dragonite. Excadrill's main weaknesses are Pokemon that can outspeed and OHKO it, such as Keldeo or Mega Lopunny; Rocky Helmet users, such as Landorus-T and Slowbro; and Cofagrigus, as it can spinblock against Excadrill effectively. Rapid Spin is the main reason to use utility Excadrill, removing Stealth Rock for the team multiple times in a game. Earthquake and Iron Head are stable STAB options that make Excadrill hit decently hard. Toxic can be used for defensive walls that Excadrill struggles with, such as Zapdos, Cofagrigus, Slowbro, and Cresselia. On the other hand, Swords Dance combined with Mold Breaker makes Excadrill a fantastic stallbreaker. Stealth Rock is used for maximum utility; however, this makes Excadrill struggle to spin versus Cofagrigus, as it doesn't have Toxic or Swords Dance to slowly break it. Rock Slide and Toxic over Iron Head are potential options Excadrill can run for better matchups into Zapdos and Thundurus; however, it is not recommended, as Excadrill's main objective is checking Fairy-types like Clefable. Leftovers is used to prolong Excadrill's longevity as much as possible, allowing it to recover HP on every switch even with Stealth Rock on the field, thanks to Excadrill's unique typing. The EV spread maximizes Excadrill's defenses while maintaining maximum Speed. Maximum Speed with a Jolly nature is important to outspeed Adamant Mega Medicham, tank Garchomp, and Mild Kyurem-B, making Excadrill a versatile pivot. It also helps against opposing Excadrill. 32 HP EVs maximize Leftovers recovery while minimizing HP investment, as Excadrill's massive HP stat means that investing in its defenses yields better defensive calculations. The given physical bulk investment lets Excadrill take Choice Band Weavile's Knock Off from full HP. The rest of the EVs are put in Special Defense to minimize damage from Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Clefable. Alternatively, 32 HP / 60 Atk / 52 Def / 108 SpD / 252 Spe with a Jolly nature can be used for more wallbreaking power while still surviving non-Life Orb Thundurus's Focus Blast from full HP. This set should be used as a fast, defensive pivot against special attackers like Clefable, Magnezone, and Latios. Use these timely pivots to spin hazards away or get Stealth Rock up. With Toxic, Excadrill can be used to lure defensive targets like Zapdos and Cresselia to open up for the rest of the team, while Swords Dance allows Excadrill to be a surprise wallbreaker. Fast utility Excadrill thrives with fast-paced teammates such as Tornadus-T and Rotom-W that can alleviate Excadrill's weaknesses and complement its utility. Other options like Zapdos, Slowbro, Clefable, and Cresselia are excellent switch-ins to Fighting- and Ground-type attacks that Excadrill can struggle against. Zapdos in particular deserves a special mention, since with Excadrill around, it can afford to drop Defog and run Static. Pokemon that can switch into Water-type attacks, especially Scald, are also appreciated. Those include Volcanion, Serperior, Amoonguss, Ferrothorn, and other previously mentioned Pokemon such as Rotom-W, Clefable, and Slowbro. Earthquake and Iron Head are stable STAB options that make Excadrill hit quite hard with maximum Attack investment. Rapid Spin allows Excadrill to fill another role of removing entry hazards, especially versus fast-paced offense teams that rely on their speed to deny Rapid Spin. Swords Dance can be used to make Excadrill an excellent wallbreaker that is almost impossible to revenge kill under sand. Rock Slide can be used to make Excadrill more of an immediate threat, especially to common switch-ins like Rotom-W, Zapdos, and Thundurus. Substitute can be used to help Excadrill spin against Cofagrigus while also aiding in dealing with difficult scenarios Sand Rush Excadrill often finds itself in. Finally, Stealth Rock, especially with Air Balloon, can be used to make Excadrill a lightning-fast utility Pokemon that is always guaranteed to get up Stealth Rock versus offense teams. An Adamant nature is generally preferred, as Excadrill is already lightning-fast under sand, and the nature can make a huge difference in its damage output. However, a Jolly nature can still be used for purposes outside of sand or to outspeed +2 Jolly Dragonite, +2 Jolly Mega Gyarados, and +2 Modest Volcarona under sand. Alternatively, a spread of 176 Atk / 80 SpD / 252 Spe with an Adamant nature preserves much of Excadrill's wallbreaking power but makes it a better pivot into Clefable, maximizing its chances to live 2 Flamethrowers after Stealth Rock damage. Thanks to Excadrill's unique typing giving it double resistance to Stealth Rock, leftovers is the preferred item to gain back HP with every switch provided Spikes are not up. Alternatively, Air Balloon allows Excadrill to pivot into Ground-types such as Hippowdon and opposing Excadrill, enabling it to get a timely Rapid Spin or forcing them out. This set should be used as an offensive threat that punches holes in enemy defenses or a late-game cleaner that can sweep the opposing team once it has been weakened enough. Alternatively, and especially with an Air Balloon, it can be used as a fast utility Pokemon that is guaranteed to set Stealth Rock, use Rapid Spin, or both. An automatic sand setter, such as Tyranitar or Hippowdon, is a must with this set. Other teammates that can mitigate Excadrill's weakness to Rotom-W, such as Amoonguss and Clefable, are also greatly appreciated. Pokemon that can grab momentum with Volt Switch or U-turn, such as Tornadus-T, Rotom-W, and Zapdos, allow Excadrill to come in multiple times during the game, which can come in very handy in certain matchups. Rapid Spin is the main selling point of utility Excadrill. Being able to remove entry hazards multiple times in a game and against common Stealth Rock setters like Clefable is very helpful for the team. Earthquake and Iron Head are stable STAB options that make Excadrill hit decently hard. Toxic, alongside Excadrill's bulk, can be a great tool to alleviate Excadrill's passivity and cripple common switch-ins such as Zapdos, Cresselia, and Slowbro. Although it makes Excadrill weak to Cofagrigus, Stealth Rock is a valid option, as this Excadrill set is very reliable at getting them up. With the given HP investment, Excadrill can make 101 HP Substitutes, allowing it to put more pressure on Chansey and Night Shade Cofagrigus. Swords Dance can still be used, but the lack of Speed makes it far less effective than fast utility variants. 40 Speed EVs let Excadrill outspeed Adamant Choice Band Tyranitar, defensive Landorus-T, and most Rotom-W. 176 HP Evs are used to allow Excadrill 405 HP, which allows it to pivot into Chansey better. Maximum Special Defense with a Careful nature allows Excadrill to live very strong special hits such as Mega Alakazam's Focus Blast. 28 Def EVs allow Excadrill to live Mega Metagross's Earthquake. The rest of the EVs is put into Atk, allowing Excadrill to hit slightly harder. Alternatively, a spread of 120 HP / 20 Def / 252 SpD / 112 Spe can be used for more Speed at the cost of bulk. This enables Excadrill to stand a better chance versus Bisharp, faster Rotom-W, and Modest Volcanion. Leftovers is the preferred item of choice as it synergizes well with Excadrill's typing and bulk, minimizing the damage it takes from Stealth Rock and weak moves such as Clefable's Moonblast throughout the game. This set should be used a defensive pivot into special attackers like Mega Diancie, Zapdos, and Mega Alakazam. Be sure to make use of these pivots to get Stealth Rock off the field or set up your own. Toxic can be used to cripple Pokemon trying to take advantage of Excadrill's low damage output, such as Calm Mind Slowbro or Nasty Plot Thundurus. Substitute can be used to apply more pressure on Chansey and Cofagrigus teams. Be sure to preserve Leftovers on Excadrill to maintain its longevity. Specially defensive Excadrill thrives on slower-paced teams like balance, bulky offense, and even semi-stall. Teams that use Spikes setters like Skarmory and Ferrothorn can benefit greatly from Excadrill's ability to keep entry hazards off while also complementing its defenses. Bulky offense teams, especially those that include Cresselia, Volcanion, or Zapdos, can also appreciate Excadrill's consistent ability to pivot on special threats like Mega Gardevoir and Clefable and keep hazards off. Earthquake is an important STAB move that KOs Bisharp and opposing Excadrill, while Iron Head hits Pokemon such as Dragonite and Weavile harder. Rapid Spin is crucial, as it allows Excadrill to be used as the team's main hazard removal. Stealth Rock gives Excadrill further utility to the team, fulfilling two roles in one slot. Toxic is a great way to punish Pokemon attempting to take advantage of Excadrill's low damage output, such as Landorus-T and Hippowdon. Substitute is also worth a mention on this set in particular, as it can aid in making physically defensive Excadrill an even better Bisharp check. The EV spread allows Excadrill to maximize its physical defense. The special bulk investment allows Excadrill to take Rotom-W's Hydro Pump from full HP and minimize the chance of getting KOed after Stealth Rock chip. 128 Speed EVs are enough to outspeed Adamant Bisharp and Jolly Tyranitar. 32 HP EVs maximize Leftovers recovery. Alternatively, a spread of 32 HP / 252 Def / 20 SpD / 204 Spe can be used to outspeed Jolly Bisharp at the cost of getting OHKO'ed by Rotom-W's Hydro Pump. This set should be used as a defensive pivot against physical attackers like Weavile, Bisharp, opposing Excadril, and Choice Band Tyranitar. It is important to take advantage of these opportunities to remove Stealth Rock from the field or set up your own. Toxic is great at poisoning bulky Ground-type Pokemon that often switch into Excadrill such as tank Garchomp, Hippowdon, and Landorus-T. Substitute can be used for extra insurance versus Bisharp, avoiding Sucker Punch. Physically defensive Excadrill thrives on bulky offense teams that struggle against strong physical attackers such as Weavile and Bisharp. This set is particularly great on Cresselia teams that usually struggle versus Weavile, Bisharp, and opposing Excadrill, all of which Excadrill can help with or lure in. Earthquake allows Excadrill to be a great late-game cleaner once Flying-types have been eliminated. With Mold Breaker, it can hit Levitate Pokemon such as Rotom-W. Iron Head, combined with Excadrill's Speed, is another great tool for late-game cleaning, especially when some lucky flinches are needed. Rapid Spin, especially with Choice Scarf, can be used to remove entry hazards once or twice per game. Rock Slide can be used to revenge kill fast Flying-types such as Mega Pinsir, Mega Charizard Y, and Thundurus. Alternatively, Toxic or Stealth Rock can be used for more utility. The EV spread with a Jolly nature maximizes Excadrill's Speed to outspeed fast threats as Mega Alakazam and setup Pokemon such as Jolly Gyarados, Jolly Dragonite, and Modest Volcarona at +1. This set should be used as a late-game sweeper and a revenge killer. Once any opposing Flying-types have fainted, Excadrill can spam Earthquake freely, especially when bulky threats such as Slowbro are also KOed or weakened. Rapid Spin is only supposed to be used once or twice per game, as it is a huge momentum killer. Pokemon that can lure or reliably eliminate Flying-types and physically defensive walls make the best of teammates. Pokemon such as Mega Metagross, Mega Diancie, and Mega Pinsir are some examples that can do both. With access to both Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin, lead Excadrill is a fantastic option for hyper offense teams. With Focus Sash, it is often guaranteed to both set up and remove Stealth Rock. Rock Tomb is used to allow Excadrill to guarantee Stealth Rock is set the next turn versus faster threats while also threatening Thundurus. Earthquake is Excadrill's main way of dishing out damage. A Jolly nature with maximum Speed is preferred to increase the chances of Excadrill setting up Stealth Rock as much as possible. Maximum Attack is used to threaten common Rapid Spin and Defog users such as Excadrill and Zapdos. Mold Breaker allows it to set up Stealth Rocks against Mega Diancie and lower the Speed of Serperior with Rock Tomb. Other options include Chople Berry to get past Mega Lopunny. This set should be used as a lead in the majority of matchups. Avoid leading with Excadrill versus fast Fake Out users such as Mega Lopunny and Jolly Mega Medicham, as they can prevent Excadrill from doing anything one-on-one. Be sure to use Rock Tomb versus faster threats, especially if Focus Sash is still intact. Fast Pokemon with immediately threatening power or a one-turn setup are the preferred teammates for this Excadrill set, as they can maintain the pressure to prevent the opposing team from removing Stealth Rock. Examples of such are Choice Band Weavile, Life Orb or Nasty Plot Thundurus, Quiver Dance Volcarona, and Tail Glow Manaphy. Additionally, at least one teammate that can pivot into Mega Lopunny, such as Rocky Helmet Thundurus or Choice Scarf Latias, is highly recommended. Sitrus Berry and resistance Berries such as Shuca Berry can often prolong Excadrill's life by one turn versus fast-paced teams. Soft Sand and Life Orb are other options that can improve Excadrill's offensive power, especially on the Sand Rush set, at the cost of longevity. Air Balloon can be used on the fast utility set as well. Finally, a mixed defensive set can also see occasional viability; an EV spread of 192 HP / 24 Def / 252 SpD / 40 Spe with a Jolly nature lets Excadrill outspeed Jolly Tyranitar and Adamant Bisharp while also surviving both Mega Metagross's Earthquake and Mega Alakazam's Focus Blast from full HP.
Excadrill (SM competitive strategy): Excadrill is an incredibly versatile Pokemon, with a typing laden with useful resistances and immunities to pivot around and check various Electric- and Fairy-types, great Attack stat and STAB combination to hit large swaths of the tier and consistently clean up games, and a utility movepool that allows it to play both sides of the entry hazard game. It works great with fabled partner Tyranitar or other alternative sand setters like Hippowdon, acting as the star player of teams within the consistent sand archetype. It makes great use of Z-Moves to overcome would-be checks like Landorus-T, Rotom-W, and Zapdos, of course depending on the choice of Z-Crystal. Excadrill is far from limited to just sand teams, as it can put in a good shift as a specially defensive pivot on bulkier teams and even a dedicated lead, both making use of Excadrill's coveted combination of Stealth Rock + Rapid Spin and helpful ability in Mold Breaker. However, Excadrill's offensive presence can often be two-dimensional, with Skarmory, Rotom-W, and Zapdos acting as consistent annoyances to it outside of its less consistent lure Z-Moves. Excadrill has plenty to worry about in terms of faster attackers, as it has overall unimpressive bulk, and sand can't always be up to patch its middling Speed. Additionally, Excadrill struggles in longer games against opposing hazard setters due to its lack of reliable recovery. With Swords Dance, Excadrill can take full advantage of its typing and reasonable bulk to set itself up to punch through walls. With the combination of Swords Dance and Steelium Z, Excadrill can bust through the likes of Landorus-T and Gliscor with +1 and +2 Corkscrew Crash, respectively. Outside of its usage as a strong Z-Move, Iron Head is a great complement to Earthquake that hits Ground-immune foes like Mega Latias and Tornadus-T and Grass-types like Serperior and Tapu Bulu. Earthquake is Excadrill's stronger STAB option, an obvious inclusion to hit Steel-types and other neutral targets. Rapid Spin gives Excadrill some valuable role compression to open up more team options due to the reduced need for other entry hazard removal. Rock Slide gives Excadrill a way to threaten Flying-types that otherwise wall it, like Zapdos, pre-Mega Charizard and Mega Charizard Y, Pelipper, and Gyarados. Steelium Z is Excadrill's most consistent wallbreaking tool, patching up Iron Head's lower power to punch through temporary checks like Landorus-T. Leftovers is the best non-Z-Crystal option for Excadrill, giving it better longevity and staying power and making it a more respectable spinner. An Adamant nature is preferred for the power boost, letting Excadrill OHKO Hippowdon with +2 Corkscrew Crash, though Jolly can also be used to outspeed the likes of Kommo-o, base 95 Speed Pokemon with a neutral nature like Modest Tapu Lele, and common variants of Gliscor as well as base 100 Speed Pokemon with a neutral nature like Mega Medicham and Volcarona outside of sand while at worst Speed tying with opposing Excadrill. Rockium Z is a niche option for a Z-Crystal, with its niche over Normalium Z being that Continental Crush gives Excadrill an option against Celesteela and hits ideal targets like Zapdos and Gyarados hard even before setting up. Additionally, it is used with Rock Slide, which is a better move than Giga Impact outside of their Z-Move uses. Excadrill has plenty of entry points during a game, mostly through Tapu Koko and Magearna, which Excadrill can conveniently block Volt Switches from, as well as the likes of Mega Latias, Clefable, and Cresselia that can't hit Excadrill very hard. When it's holding a Z-Crystal over Leftovers, however, this defensive usage is limited to fewer occasions, so aim to have your sand up when you get Excadrill in, so you can make the most of the limited opportunity by setting up and breaking through the opposing team. Having Stealth Rock on the field early helps with this, digging into common Flying-type answers like Zapdos while also incrementally chipping Rotom-W alongside sand damage. In matchups where Excadrill is walled, you should not bother setting up, though Excadrill can still be plenty helpful by chasing out threats like Calm Mind Magearna and by spinning away entry hazards, especially in the face of setters like Chansey, Clefable, and Skarmory once it loses its Rocky Helmet. It shines in late-game situations where you can afford to sacrifice your sand setter to give Excadrill the maximum amount of turns to clean up. Sand Rush Excadrill is logically only used on sand teams, fitting snugly into both the offensive and defensive core and making use of Sand Rush to become an elite revenge killer and late-game cleaner. Mega Tyranitar is by and large the most common sand-setting teammate, working well with Excadrill offensively by pressuring Flying-types via either trapping them with Pursuit or just obliterating them with Stone Edge if they get overconfident. It additionally makes great use of its Special Defense boost from sand to check Heatran and find opportunities to set Stealth Rock to support Excadrill. Hippowdon is the other option; what it lacks in offensive presence, it aims to make up for by being better at sticking around via Slack Off, making it a much better Stealth Rock setter and better at setting sand, even having the option to run Smooth Rock, though the defensive overlap and relative passivity does not go unnoticed. Toxapex fits snugly onto sand teams because of its crucial resistance to Water and its incredible longevity. On top of this, it absorbs Toxic Spikes, giving relief to Excadrill on teams where it is relied upon as the entry hazard setter, and can also carry Toxic Spikes itself to ease the matchup against Mega Medicham and rain teams. Celesteela is a very solid answer to both Mega Alakazam and Tapu Lele as well as improving the matchup against offense teams with its Leech Seed + Protect shenanigans. Zapdos answers Kartana, Mega Lopunny, and Hawlucha handily, threatening Static paralysis along the way. Kartana fits well onto sand teams, having respectable Speed that gives the team an option to revenge kill the likes of Mega Medicham and Garchomp outside of sand. Choice Band is the best for immediate power and therefore revenge killing, though Swords Dance can be useful to lure Zapdos and Skarmory with Normalium Z and Fightinium Z, respectively, with both variants doing the job of threatening out Water-types. Mega Garchomp can be used on teams featuring Hippowdon or non-Mega Tyranitar as the sand setter, with it benefitting greatly from Sand Force to wallbreak; mixed sets can prey on annoyances like Rotom-W and Skarmory with its coverage, and Swords Dance sets work away at shared checks with Excadrill. For ​non-Z-Move variants of Excadrill, offensive Z-Move variants of Landorus-T and Garchomp can make for interesting teammates, with Rockium Z variants of both being able to puncture Rotom-W, Zapdos, and Celesteela. Additionally, they provide solid defensive utility, with Landorus-T bringing an immunity to Ground and Garchomp being able to help against Heatran and Mega Charizard Y with its resistance to Fire. Mega Latias appreciates Excadrill's proficiency at handling Fairy-types like Magearna and Tapu Koko; in return, Mega Latias provides a solid answer to threats like Mega Charizard Y and Landorus-T, can take chunks out of the likes of Celesteela and Zapdos with Thunder and Ice Beam, and act as a secondary wincon with Calm Mind. Tornadus-T can remove important items like Rocky Helmet from Skarmory and Zapdos and Leftovers from Celesteela while also providing a check to Mega Medicham. Serperior feasts on Rotom-W and can work together with Excadrill against shared checks like Celesteela and Zapdos, even having the niche option of Knock Off to improve its competency at this role further. With significant investment into its bulk and Leftovers, Excadrill really comes into its own as a Stealth Rock setter, finding opportunities to block Volt Switch from the likes of Magearna and Tapu Koko and taking full advantage with Stealth Rock. On teams that can already fit in Stealth Rock handily, Excadrill can use Iron Head to hit Fairy-types like Tapu Bulu and Clefable and Flying-types like Tornadus-T and Gliscor. Earthquake slams the Electric-types and Steel-types like Tapu Koko, Magearna, and Jirachi that Excadrill likes to aggressively come into and also pressures entry hazard setters like Heatran and Toxapex. Toxic is great for catching irritating Defoggers like Zapdos, Landorus-T, and Tornadus-T and overall reduces Excadrill's passivity, as it can catch the likes of Mega Charizard Y and Serperior as they switch in. Rapid Spin is one of the main draws of Excadrill as a defensive piece, clearing opposing hazards while maintaining its team's own. Excadrill has the staying power to invalidate passive hazard setters like Clefable, lead Diancie, and Skarmory without Rocky Helmet. 76 Speed EVs put Excadrill ahead of Modest Heatran, with the rest going into bulk to help Excadrill last against repeated resisted hits like Magearna's Fleur Cannon. Leftovers is crucial for this variant to function, improving Excadrill's longevity and letting it slowly heal off entry hazard damage and weak attacks while it stays on the field. The main draw of defensive Excadrill is its obvious good matchup against Volt Switch users like Assault Vest Magearna and Tapu Koko, as it makes good use of its resistance to Fairy and neutrality to Ice to ensure that it can always comfortably come in. Part of Excadrill's intended role in longer games is to stick around, so you need to both watch for any sort of negation of Leftovers, either through burn or item removal, and be mindful of how much you send it in, especially if you're not pairing it with a Wish passer. Before Excadrill can comfortably spin away entry hazards, a teammate must remove Rocky Helmet from the likes of Landorus-T and Skarmory first with Knock Off. Excadrill has far from unlimited staying power, so your priority will be to cut the longevity of opposing hazard setters even shorter with status and chip damage; for example, catching opposing Landorus-T with Toxic early- or mid-game. This variant of Excadrill is suited for teams ranging from bulky offense to semi-stall with bulky teammates that can somewhat take the burden off of Excadrill defensively somewhat so it can focus on providing utility and blocking Volt Switch. Wish users like Chansey and Clefable enable less careful play with Excadrill, as it can negate accrued chip damage on Excadrill from repeated hits. Although Excadrill does have the Steel typing, it's still horrible at taking on Tapu Lele and Mega Alakazam, so pairing it with an answer to them like Magearna or Cresselia is quite important. Toxapex reduces the burden on Excadrill to come in and spin, since it absorbs Toxic Spikes, and it provides a good defensive answer to Fire-types like Volcarona and Mega Charizard Y. In return, Excadrill can quieten Volt Switch users to help Toxapex. Spikes are logical to pair with Excadrill, considering its method of entry hazard removal allows you to keep your hard-fought layers, so Skarmory makes for a good teammate; however, this does raise the issue of having two Steel-types on your team with neither of them solidly checking Tapu Lele or Mega Alakazam. Knock Off users like Tornadus-T and Clefable can remove opposing Rocky Helmets to aid Excadrill in spinning away hazards. Excadrill invites in Gliscor completely for free, so it must be paired with a counter to it, such as Ice Beam Mega Latias or Mega Slowbro. Tapu Fini appreciates Excadrill freeing up a moveslot for it by carrying hazard removal so that it can run other options like Calm Mind or Whirlpool; in return, it can provide a stop to dangerous Water-types like Ash-Greninja and Mega Gyarados and help against Mega Swampert. Both Mega Charizard formes can make for good teammates, as Mega Charizard X can forcefully drag down opposing Landorus-T, while Mega Charizard Y benefits from Excadrill's Volt Switch blocking and improves the team's matchup against opposing rain and offense teams. Excadrill is a great dedicated lead thanks to Mold Breaker, allowing it to set up Stealth Rock without being blocked by Magic Bounce. Earthquake is important for tearing through common targets like Magearna, Toxapex, Heatran, and other Excadrill, and Mold Breaker allows it to threaten Rotom-W for super effective damage. Rock Tomb messes with Defoggers like Tornadus-T and Zapdos and is a good anti-setup tool against Dragon Dance users like Mega Charizard X and Gyarados. It also drops Serperior's Speed stat thanks to Mold Breaker bypassing Contrary. If Excadrill's teammates have these targets accounted for, it can use Toxic to cripple opposing leads, bypassing Magic Bounce thanks to Mold Breaker. Finally, Rapid Spin lets Excadrill provide hazard removal support to its teammates; it can also potentially spam Rapid Spin against opposing entry hazard leads until it is KOed. Mold Breaker allows Excadrill to bypass Magic Bounce and set up Stealth Rock in the face of Mega Diancie and Mega Sableye. A Jolly nature lets Excadrill Speed tie with other maximum Speed Excadrill and outspeed Timid Heatran. A Focus Sash is mandatory so that Excadrill can survive a strong move and set up Stealth Rock reliably. Alternatively, Excadrill can run an EV spread of 124 Atk / 132 SpD / 252 Spe to survive 4 hits from Choice Specs Greninja's Water Shuriken. Focus on setting up Stealth Rock immediately and removing entry hazards with Rapid Spin, even at the cost of being KOed. Fast Defog users like Tornadus-T and Serperior should be met with Rock Tomb immediately. Avoid leading with Excadrill if the opponent has a Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, Greninja, or Garchomp on their side of the field, as they are incredibly hostile lead matchups for Focus Sash Excadrill. The former two can eliminate it with the combination of Fake Out and High Jump Kick; Greninja can potentially KO it with Water Shuriken thanks to being a multi-hit move; and Garchomp can threaten Excadrill with Earthquake, set up Stealth Rock, and deny its attempts to remove entry hazards thanks to Rough Skin. Excadrill should also tread carefully against the likes of Ferrothorn, Zapdos, and Rocky Helmet users like Tornadus-T and Skarmory, as they can punish Excadrill with chip damage or paralysis in the case of Static Zapdos if it tries to remove entry hazards with Rapid Spin. If Excadrill is at low enough health and is KOed by the chip damage from Ferrothorn, Rough Skin, and Rocky Helmet, Rapid Spin will fail to remove entry hazards. Thanks to its Electric immunity, Excadrill checks enemy Tapu Koko and should be kept healthy to handle it later in the game. This Excadrill set is best suited for hyper offense teams, as they appreciate it starting the game off well with Stealth Rock and preventing opposing entry hazards with Rapid Spin. Taunt Serperior is a fantastic teammate, as it provides a backup hazard removal option with Defog, enabling hazard-weak hyper offense teammates like Volcarona, Mega Charizard X, and Gyarados. Serperior also has the benefit of checking enemy Garchomp attempting to counter lead Excadrill. Other hyper offense teammates like Dragonite, Magearna, and Mega Gyarados are also good fits, as they can find opportunities to set up against Pokemon that Excadrill has chipped with Rock Tomb. The former also enjoys having entry hazards kept off the field, making it easier to preserve Multiscale and allowing more setup opportunities. Since Excadrill fills the roles of both a dedicated lead and a hazard remover, it is also a good fit on dual screens archetypes, as it opens up a team slot for Tapu Koko to set Reflect and Light Screen, providing much easier setup opportunities for Mega Gyarados, Hawlucha, and Shift Gear Magearna. Cresselia provides a safe switch-in against Mega Lopunny, a horrible lead matchup for Excadrill, and provides Thunder Wave and Lunar Dance support to cripple faster threats like Mega Alakazam and restore a teammate back to full health, respectively. Kommo-o is another good partner that has the benefit of using its typing to check Ash-Greninja, which usually gives hyper offense teams major trouble. Tapu Lele is also a good teammate because it checks Fighting-types like Kommo-o and provides Psychic Terrain to deny priority moves from the likes of Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny. Choice Scarf can be used on Mold Breaker sets to give Excadrill better prowess as a revenge killer for frail attackers like Greninja and Mega Medicham. Leftovers Sand Rush variants of Excadrill can drop Swords Dance for Stealth Rock on bulkier teams. Giga Impact can be used alongside Normalium Z to give Excadrill a weapon against Rotom-W while still hitting the same targets as Rock Slide, though Giga Impact is a very inconsistent move outside of its Z-Move.
Excadrill (SS competitive strategy): Excadrill has valuable role compression in UU as an Electric-immune entry hazard remover and potential Stealth Rock setter. It has the typing to check many threatening foes like Nihilego, Togekiss, Jirachi, and Galarian Slowbro. Mold Breaker allows Excadrill to bypass abilities like Levitate from Rotom-W and Magic Bounce from Hatterene to KO them or set Stealth Rock. Excadrill can also utilize a suicide lead set on hyper offense teams to pave the way for dangerous sweepers like Celesteela and Thundurus-T. Excadrill can also be a potent late-game cleaner with a Swords Dance + Rapid Spin set, boosting up to break through walls like Chansey and Amoonguss and clean through weakened teams. However, Excadrill is extremely vulnerable to the tier's Water-, Grass-, and Fighting-type Pokemon like Keldeo, Zarude, and Conkeldurr, all of which can easily take advantage of it due to their higher Speed or access to priority. Excadrill struggles to bypass common threats like Skarmory, Hippowdon, Moltres, and Celesteela. Skarmory and Hippowdon are especially troublesome, as Excadrill struggles to keep entry hazards removed against the most prevalent setters in the tier. Furthermore, Excadrill's defensive stats are lackluster without investment, which hinders its role as a Steel-type when checking threats like Hatterene and Hydreigon. Earthquake and Iron Head provide fantastic coverage for Excadrill, slamming common threats like Galarian Slowbro, Nihilego, and Mamoswine. Rapid Spin lets Excadrill clear entry hazards thanks to matching up well against other entry hazard setters like Nihilego and Chansey. Toxic burdens defensive checks like Tangrowth, Slowking, and Hippowdon, allowing Excadrill or a teammate to get past them in the long-term. However, Toxic is useless against certain answers like Skarmory. Alternatively, Stealth Rock can be run for more role compression thanks to Excadrill pressuring entry hazard control like Rotom-W and Hatterene and being able to set up Stealth Rock against Pokemon like Nihilego and Jirachi thanks to its typing. Moreover, finding another Pokemon to run Stealth Rock can strain teambuilding, though Excadrill becomes unable to cripple and wear down threats like Hippowdon. Magnet Rise is an option over Iron Head to completely shut down Hippowdon from setting up Stealth Rock, being immune to Earthquake and punishing it with Toxic, though Excadrill's offensive capabilities become more limited. Mold Breaker bypasses Levitate from Rotom-W, Rotom-H, and Hydreigon, allowing Excadrill to severely damage them with Earthquake while also allowing Excadrill to circumvent Hatterene's Magic Bounce. Maximum Attack investment lets Excadrill threaten Amoonguss and Primarina as much as possible, though maximum investment in Special Defense in an option to better check threats like Hatterene, Rotom-W, and Galarian Slowbro via directly switching in. Excadrill both removing and setting entry hazards gives it a place on many bulky offense and balance teams. Thundurus-T is a great partner that can remove Flying-types like Skarmory, Celesteela, and Moltres that hinder Excadrill. Grass-types like Tangrowth and Amoonguss can switch into Water- and Grass-types like Azumarill and Zarude for Excadrill. They also scare out Hippowdon. Fighting-type checks like Salamence and Slowking provide great support against threats like Cobalion and Conkeldurr, with Salamence also beating Grass-types like Zarude and Tangrowth as well as helping Excadrill keep entry hazards off the field thanks to it beating entry hazard setters it struggles with like Skarmory and Swampert. Salamence also beats bulky variants of Swords Dance Scizor. Other entry hazard setters like Nihilego and Cobalion can cover setting Stealth Rock for Excadrill, freeing up a moveslot to run Toxic. Fast offensive threats like Zygarde-10%, Azelf, and Salazzle appreciate Excadrill's support and can deal with faster threats like Thundurus-T and Hydreigon. The latter two also check Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Skarmory. Excadrill is a great suicide lead for hyper offense teams thanks to Mold Breaker, allowing it to set up Stealth Rock against Hatterene and pressure Rotom-W with Earthquake. Rapid Spin supports its team against opposing Stealth Rock setters like Nihilego and Swampert. Excadrill also keeps Sticky Web off the field thanks to its amazing matchup against Ribombee, which normally hinders many hyper offense teams. Rock Tomb heavily damages Thundurus-T and Moltres and slows down faster threats like Zarude for its teammates to set up on. Steel Beam is an option that allows Excadrill to retain momentum after setting up Stealth Rock, preventing Defoggers like Salamence from removing Stealth Rock. A Focus Sash guarantees Excadrill can survive a hit and get up Stealth Rock before fainting. This Excadrill set fits best on hyper offense teams, allowing teammates to come in and sweep after setting up Stealth Rock. Deadly setup sweepers like Thundurus-T, Gyarados, and Celesteela all appreciate entry hazard support wearing down checks like Chansey, Skarmory, and Nihilego. Thundurus-T takes advantage of the Flying-types Excadrill lets in like Skarmory and Celesteela, while the latter two also appreciate Excadrill removing opposing Stealth Rock with Rapid Spin, preventing chip damage so they can sweep more easily. Rapid Spin support also allows Gyarados to run items like Mystic Water instead of Heavy-Duty Boots. Spikes leads like Scolipede can form an entry hazard stacking core with Excadrill. Swords Dance boosts Excadrill's Attack to sky-high levels, letting it overwhelm the sturdiest of physical walls like Tangrowth and Amoonguss with its STAB moves if Stealth Rock is up. In conjunction with Mold Breaker, it can break through Quagsire's Unaware. Rapid Spin lets Excadrill compress entry hazard removal alongside boosting its Speed, making it a dangerous late-game threat, as faster threats like Zygarde-10% can no longer revenge kill it. Rock Slide is an option to slam Moltres, which otherwise counters this set, and hit Thundurus-T and Celesteela, but it only should be used if the team can fit entry hazard removal elsewhere. Leftovers makes Excadrill harder to wear down, further facilitating its sweeping attempts. Excadrill best fits on offensive teams that give it ample opportunities to wallbreak. Pivot support from Zarude, Thundurus-T, and Slowking can bring Excadrill in safely to set up against their checks like Togekiss and Chansey. Notably, Slowking is a slow pivot, providing Excadrill with a free switch with Teleport. Slowking and Thundurus-T are also great at taking advantage of Celesteela and Skarmory, both of which wall Excadrill. Amoonguss and Tangrowth can provide a key defensive backbone for Excadrill, taking on threats like Conkeldurr, Hippowdon, and Azumarill. Entry hazard support from Nihilego and Swampert is key in helping Excadrill break through physical walls like Tangrowth and Amoonguss. Early-game wallbreakers like Hydreigon and Conkeldurr can weaken walls like Celesteela and Moltres for it to cleanly sweep late-game. Other Steel-types like Celesteela and Jirachi can make up for Excadrill's frailty by checking threats it normally would like Hydreigon and Hatterene. On Hippowdon teams, Excadrill can use Sand Rush over Mold Breaker to be the fastest threat in the tier, though sand isn't a prominent archetype in UU and Excadrill fails to beat Celesteela and Skarmory anyway. Choice Scarf allows Excadrill to revenge kill threats like Azelf and be the fastest entry hazard remover in the tier, but it is typically undesirable to be locked into any of its moves. Sand Force alongside Choice Band on Sand teams turns Excadrill into a very dangerous wallbreaker, but like Choice Scarf this set struggles because Excadrill hates being locked into any of its moves. Assault Vest lets Excadrill better tank hits from Hydreigon and Galarian Slowbro, though it misses out on the passive recovery Leftovers provides.
Excadrill (SV competitive strategy): When using Swords Dance, Excadrill acts as both an excellent utility Pokemon with Rapid Spin and a dangerous wallbreaker and cleaner all in one set. Iron Head is preferred over Rock Slide to let Excadrill break past Hydrapple and Sinistcha, while Rock Slide is useful for Mandibuzz and Skarmory. Rapid Spin is used both for its ability to remove entry hazards and also the crucial Speed boost it gives that lets Excadrill outrun the unboosted metagame. Tera Dragon lets Excadrill flip weaknesses to common moves used to check it like Greninja's Surf, Azumarill's Aqua Jet, and Hisuian Arcanine's Flare Blitz, while Tera Ground gives it a strong power boost on Earthquake, letting it OHKO Slowking at +2; this also sheds its weakness to opposing Excadrill's Earthquake. These are the main choices, but Excadrill can viably run a lot of Tera types; Tera Fire lets it set up on Skeledirge, Tera Fairy and Tera Ghost give it a resistance or immunity to moves like Quaquaval's Close Combat while Tera Fairy also lets it resist Mandibuzz's Foul Play, Tera Flying lets it beat opposing Excadrill more consistently, and Tera Water helps with Greninja while retaining a stronger Scizor and Mamoswine matchup. Leftovers lets Excadrill play more flexibly mid-game before it goes for a sweep, but Air Balloon lets Excadrill beat opposing Excadrill and act as a more reliable hazard remover against Spikes teams, particularly those using Sandy Shocks. Excadrill fits on just about any team you can think of thanks to its remarkable offensive capabilities and utility. Hydrapple is a huge roadblock for Excadrill, so Pokemon like Lokix, Tornadus-T, and Enamorus-T make for wonderful partners capable of pressuring it. Excadrill in return is great at supporting these Pokemon if they forgo Heavy-Duty Boots to alleviate their weakness to Stealth Rock by removing them from the field with Rapid Spin. It appreciates support from entry hazard setters like Tinkaton and Hisuian Arcanine; with the help of Knock Off users like the aforementioned Tornadus-T and Lokix, Excadrill can much more easily cleave through checks like Sinistcha and Slowking. Tinkaton and Assault Vest Tornadus-T are also great pivots into Latios, which is appreciated by Excadrill because it doesn't take Draco Meteor well without bulk investment. Slowking makes for an effective partner, as it can check Latios, which Excadrill can often struggle with despite its type advantage. Excadrill has few defensive checks, but teammates like Scizor and Thundurus-T that can threaten or weaken checks like Hydrapple and Skarmory are extremely appreciated. Excadrill can be revenge killed by foes like Greninja, Azumarill, and Lokix, so checks like Keldeo and Rotom-W make for helpful teammates. Sand Rush Excadrill is a deadly threat, being a great sweeper, wallbreaker, and revenge killer thanks to the combination of Swords Dance and it outpacing the entire boosted metagame under sand. After a Swords Dance, Iron Head does heavy damage to Hydrapple, Mandibuzz, and Tornadus-T. Rapid Spin is primarily used for the utility it brings with removing entry hazards; however, its Speed boost can potentially prevent Excadrill from being revenge killed once sand has subsided. Rock Slide can be used over Rapid Spin if the team is not pressured by hazards as much, which can help it break past Mandibuzz. Air Balloon provides some utility against Sandy Shocks, Rhyperior, and opposing Excadrill, but Leftovers can be used for passive recovery. Life Orb can be considered, as it notably allows Excadrill to OHKO Choice Specs Hydrapple and Slowking after a Swords Dance boost and Stealth Rock, though it will cut into Excadrill's longevity and potentially bring it into range of priority from Lokix and Keldeo. A Jolly nature is primarily used so Excadrill can Speed tie with opposing Excadrill outside of sand. It also lets Excadrill outpace Battle Bond-activated Greninja under sand; however, it would be reliant on a defensive Tera to take Water Shuriken. An Adamant nature can be used to help improve the chances of KOing Pokemon like Slowking after a Swords Dance. Tera Rock increases the damage of Rock Slide to KO Mandibuzz, and the Special Defense boost under sand can help it beat foes like Hydrapple and take priority from Keldeo and Greninja better. Tera Dragon provides many useful resistances, notably letting it take priority hits from Greninja and Azumarill. Tera Ground provides a boost to Earthquake, allowing Excadrill to OHKO Slowking at +2 and remove its weakness to opposing Excadrill's Earthquake. Other Tera options are also great on Excadrill such as Fairy to beat Mandibuzz reliably and Fire to have a better matchup against Skeledirge. Excadrill fits best on offensive teams that can break down defensive structures to help Excadrill sweep more easily. Sand is essential, so Tyranitar or Hippowdon are mandatory partners, both being able to set Stealth Rock to help potentially bring foes into KO range. Tyranitar can help check and pressure Mandibuzz and Tornadus-T for Excadrill as well as force damage on other common answers like Keldeo. Alternatively, Hippowdon offers a sturdy check to opposing Excadrill and can afford to run Smooth Rock more easily due to having reliable recovery in Slack Off. Lokix can revenge kill Excadrill with minor chip damage, so a partner like Skarmory or Cobalion can keep it in check; the latter can run Stealth Rock to allow Excadrill's partner Tyranitar to run a more offensive set. Azumarill is easily one of the deadliest threats to sand teams, so Pokemon like Volcanion, Rotom-W, and Zarude are excellent teammates, all also having favorable matchups into rain teams. Rotom-W is a huge roadblock for Excadrill, so it is essential to run partners that can overwhelm it like Latios and Keldeo. Keldeo in particular can force in Excadrill answers like Latios, Hydrapple, and Sinistcha and heavily dent, or in Hydrapple's case OHKO, them with Icy Wind. Hydrapple is another partner that can pressure Rotom-W but also deals with other Pokemon like Slowking, Ogerpon, and Zarude for Excadrill. Mandibuzz can help pivot into Ogerpon and opposing Excadrill as well as provide Defog support, freeing up Excadrill to run Iron Head over Rapid Spin. Excadrill can be a useful lead on hyper offense teams thanks to its ability to enable threats like Ogerpon-C and Greninja that enjoy entry hazards being removed while providing some facet of removal against Sticky Web teams. Excadrill compresses Stealth Rock as a lead and can get it up by forcing out Pokemon such as Metagross, Rotom-W, and Tyranitar. Rock Tomb can slow down Pokemon attempting to set up against Excadrill like Zarude and Thundurus-T as well as general offensive leads like Tornadus-T and Ogerpon. Steel Beam is an alternative so Excadrill can KO itself to deny Mandibuzz and opposing Excadrill from removing its entry hazards, but Excadrill still offers some useful traits like checking Latios and Comfey that make it worth not KOing itself. Focus Sash guarantees that Excadrill can get off at least one attack, often choosing to use Rapid Spin into Stealth Rock into attacking. While Excadrill should not be Terastallized under most common circumstances, as the mechanic is better utilized by a sweeper on the hyper offense team, Tera Ghost can be used in an emergency to block Rapid Spin from opposing Excadrill to guarantee Stealth Rock remains up. Lead Excadrill is exclusively relegated to hyper offense teams as a lead that enables many sweepers to perform effectively. Quaquaval and Ogerpon-C are two of the best sweepers of the archetype, the latter benefitting from Excadrill keeping off Stealth Rock, and they are able to take advantage of threats Excadrill gives entry to such as Keldeo and Slowking. Mimikyu can block Rapid Spin from opposing Excadrill, allowing Tera to be preserved, and utilizes the entry hazards to take out foes like Tinkaton more easily while providing very valuable defensive utility against Lokix, Latios, and Greninja. Greninja appreciates entry hazard chip damage wearing down Tornadus-T and can offensively check foes like Slowking, Cobalion, and Hydrapple. Threatening sweepers like Comfey and Azumarill are able to set up on and pressure Mandibuzz and Lokix, not to mention they can use Tera themselves to now take out other threats like Metagross and Tinkaton for the former and Greninja and Zarude for the latter. Bisharp similarly can punish Mandibuzz attempting to use Defog with Defiant and take advantage of Stealth Rock chip damage to clean with Sucker Punch, while Azumarill takes advantage of Pokemon that lead Excadrill invites in such as Hydrapple, Quaquaval, and Hippowdon while liking hazards up to break Ogerpon-C's Sturdy.
Maractus (BW competitive strategy): With valuable resistances to Water, Ground, and Electric, as well as the even more valuable Spikes, Maractus blossoms in PU as the most versatile Spikes setter the tier has to offer. It can go either defensive or offensive, leveraging either its strong defensive synergies or its respectable power to force openings to lay down more Spikes. Maractus even has plenty of healing options in Giga Drain and Synthesis to make sure that it has plenty of opportunities to lay down even more Spikes throughout the match. Unfortunately, Maractus has neither the bulk to avoid being run over by stronger threats like Beheeyem and Stoutland nor the offensive prowess or coverage to be a true offensive threat, so it can struggle to keep up with other Grass-types like Torterra or Vileplume. The last move is a choice of three; Knock Off is recommended for its general utility in getting rid of useful items like Eviolite on targets such as Bronzor, Natu, and Duosion, and Hidden Power Ice adds coverage to counter Flying- and Grass-types like Natu and Torterra. Toxic can also be used for additional chip damage on top of the Spikes, and it notably targets Monferno that would switch in to force out Maractus. The Speed EVs are to outspeed Natu, giving Maractus the ability to remove Natu's Eviolite or finish it off with Hidden Power Ice before it switches out or heals with Roost. Maractus can also run 136 Speed EVs to outspeed neutral nature Marowak, but this digs heavily into Defense. The Spikes that Maractus provides is a huge boon for offensive teammates like Zebstrika and Monferno because they help keep their offensive pressure up. Maractus tends to attract the attention of common Fire-, Ice-, and Flying-types such as Monferno, Sneasel, and Dodrio, so teammates that can switch into those threats such as Frillish and Bronzor make for good partners. Maractus also makes for a good switch-in for Ground- and Water-types like Stunfisk and Golduck, so Pokemon that appreciate having those threats handled such as Zebstrika and Monferno also make for good partners. Pokemon that can threaten common entry hazard removal Pokemon like Tentacool and Natu, such as Zebstrika and Banette, are also excellent additions to its team. As a final note, Maractus pairs up well with Zweilous, since Zweilous is able to absorb the Fire-type attacks thrown at Maractus and then utilize Roar to rack up Spikes damage on the opposing team. This set still focuses on setting Spikes over the course of the game but is able to use its offensive prowess to force out entry hazard control and threaten out certain Ground- and Water-types such as Marowak and Golduck. The Speed EVs are to outspeed maximum Speed neutral nature Marowak with enough offensive investment to OHKO 0 HP Marowak after Stealth Rock with Giga Drain. Seed Bomb is an alternative STAB option for 2HKOing the most popular hazard control option of 0 Defense Tentacool, which is something that the specially offensive variant can only dream of, so the choice of STAB attacks comes down to survivability with Giga Drain or better threatening Tentacool with Seed Bomb. Between the two, Giga Drain is the preferred STAB option for its useful healing and reasonable enough power. Hidden Power Ice is the preferred coverage option for hitting Grass- and Flying-types like Torterra and Natu, but Sucker Punch is the less useful option that can be used alongside Seed Bomb as an unusual priority option. While not mandatory, it is recommended that Hidden Power Ice is paired with Giga Drain and Sucker Punch is paired with Seed Bomb so that the EV spreads allow Maractus to get the most out of its coverage. Water Absorb is still the preferred ability due to the potential healing making up for Maractus's lower defenses, but more aggressive players might want to reach for Storm Drain for some potential Special Attack boosts to make Giga Drain even stronger. Two EV spreads are also listed, one for if Maractus is using Giga Drain and the other for if it is using Seed Bomb. Even with an offensive spread, Maractus still struggles with being walled by most Steel- and Poison-types such as Bronzor and Vileplume, so Pokemon such as Simisear and Beheeyem that can break through those threats make for good partners. Wallbreakers like Simisear also appreciate the Spikes Maractus brings to help break through stubborn walls. Maractus also covers the Water-and Ground-type weaknesses of Simisear and Monferno. Maractus tends to attract Flying- and Ice-types such as Jumpluff, Dodrio, and Sneasel, so Pokemon like Bronzor and Mawile pair well with Maractus to absorb those hits while setting up Stealth Rock. It is important to note that offensive Maractus is not a wallbreaker and primarily serves to threaten certain common threats like Stunfisk and Tentacool, so teammates like Monferno and Golduck that tend to draw in these threats appreciate the synergy offensive Maractus offers the most by helping position Maractus in front of these threats.
Maractus (XY competitive strategy): Maractus is totally outclassed by other suicide leads due to its mediocre Speed and lack of Stealth Rock, Taunt, Toxic Spikes, or Speed Boost. In particular, Quilladin almost totally outperforms it as a Grass-type suicide lead, and Maractus is also outclassed by other leads such as Crustle and Venipede. However, despite being outclassed, it can still function as a passable lead thanks to its access to both Spikes and Sucker Punch. Maractus is normally limited to one layer of Spikes due to its poor Speed, as opposing teams can simply lead with something capable of 2HKOing it, but it has a good matchup against some leads, such as Golem, against which it can lay down multiple layers of Spikes. Maractus can also force teams to play carefully around its Endeavor and Sucker Punch combination, which can sometimes nab surprise KOs. Spikes is what makes Maractus worth using as a lead, as it can lay entry hazards early on to wear down foes and break opposing Focus Sashes and Sturdy Pokemon. Because Bullet Seed is a multi-strike move, Maractus can KO Golem through Sturdy most of the time. Endeavor allows Maractus to cripple foes once it is hit down to its Focus Sash by always leaving them at 1 HP, while Sucker Punch allows it to land a little extra damage with priority and can get KOs on foes weakened by Endeavor. Maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature make Maractus as fast as possible so that it can outspeed other leads, such as Dwebble, and set extra layers of Spikes on as many foes as possible. Maximum Attack investment lets Maractus KO lead Golem most of the time and deal extra damage with Sucker Punch. Water Absorb gives Maractus an immunity to Water and has a usable effect, unlike Storm Drain, which boosts Maractus's unused Special Attack stat. Focus Sash guarantees that Maractus will lay at least one layer of Spikes or be able to use Endeavor versus faster foes such as Rapidash, which would otherwise OHKO Maractus before it set any entry hazards. Maractus should always be used to set Spikes as early as possible, as its lack of strong STAB moves and coverage makes it fairly worthless late-game. Laying Spikes should be the priority over attacking foes, as Maractus doesn't hit too hard and should be used in more of a supportive role. Endeavor should be used when Maractus is at low health and is faster than its foe to do as much damage as possible. However, Maractus should use Sucker Punch versus faster foes to get off a little extra chip damage before being KOed. Even at 1 HP versus slower foes, Maractus should still consider laying another layer of Spikes if it's more beneficial than crippling a single Pokemon. Maractus should be wary of going directly for Spikes against common Taunt users such as Grumpig or Misdreavus, as it can land free damage with Bullet Seed or switch to an appropriate counter. Maractus should be used on hyper offense teams that can keep up offensive pressure and take advantage of Spikes to quickly break through opposing teams. Spinblockers such as Dusknoir and Misdreavus keep Maractus's Spikes up by preventing Rapid Spin users such as Armaldo from removing them. Pokemon with Defiant such as Pawniard and Purugly discourage Defog users from removing Maractus's Spikes, as they can get an Attack boost from Defog. Strong wallbreakers, such as Stoutland, can use the chip damage dealt by Maractus's Spikes to break through their few counters. Setup sweepers and strong cleaners also appreciate the Spikes support to ensure extra KOs versus weakened teams. Stealth Rock users such as Golem and Crustle can stack entry hazards with Maractus to get extra chip damage and wear down teams more quickly. Pokemon with Volt Switch or U-turn, such as Ninjask and Raichu, can use the entry hazards to break down defensive cores quickly by forcing counters to switch into both Spikes and an attack and then switch out again. Phazers such as Whirlwind Grumpig can use Maractus's Spikes to help rack up residual damage on foes. Maractus can run physically, specially, and mixed offensive sets with a number of different items, from Choice Band to Miracle Seed, but they are all outperformed by other offensive Grass-types such as Tangela, Jumpluff, and Leafeon. Knock Off can be run to cripple opposing leads, but Maractus generally prefers setting up Spikes over attacking. Grass Whistle can be used to put foes to sleep and set more layers of Spikes, but it has poor accuracy and forces Maractus to give up Endeavor.
Maractus (SM competitive strategy): Even with access to Spikes, Maractus struggles to find a niche over other Grass-types with Spikes like Roselia and Ferroseed. Both have much greater defensive presences thanks to their secondary typings. Even when used as a lead, Maractus's stats bar its Special Attack are mediocre, most notably its Speed, which means it often can only set up one layer of Spikes before being KOed. Furthermore, Pokemon with Taunt like Qwilfish and Alolan Persian can prevent Maractus from setting up Spikes at all, or they can be removed later in the game by the abundance of entry hazard removers like Skuntank, many of which beat Maractus in a matchup, which essentially negates its one goal. Maractus is meant to set up Spikes at the beginning of the game. Its one niche over other Grass-types and common leads is in Endeavor, which works well alongside Sucker Punch and Focus Sash. However, due to Maractus's low Speed, it is difficult to pull off while also managing to set up Spikes, so it rarely works out. Because of this and various other reasons, you're much better off using other Grass-type Spikes setters like Ferroseed and Roselia.
Maractus (SS competitive strategy): Maractus is an unviable choice in SS ZU because it is entirely outclassed as a defensive Spikes setter by Roselia, which has much better bulk with Eviolite and a better typing for the tier both offensively and defensively. Maractus attempts to support its teammates with Spikes and Knock Off while trying to help ward off special attackers. Unfortunately, it isn't quite capable of taking on the tier's top Pokemon, unlike Roselia, which can with its better bulk and typing, and Eviolite furthering its defensive prowess.
Reshiram (BW competitive strategy): cleaners, such as Darkrai, Mewtwo, and Choice Scarf Palkia, great be able to perform to the best of its ability; Groudon, Dialga, Arceus-Grass, and Ferrothorn can all spread this helpful status reliably. ability to handle threats such as Arceus-Ghost, Mewtwo, and Genesect, as avoid a 2HKO from Choice Specs Reshiram and stall it out. Ho-Oh and Arceus-Rock under sand can also defeat Reshiram handily with conditions their
Reshiram (XY competitive strategy): Reshiram possesses a very nice offensive typing that is backed by good stats and a decent movepool. Combined with its ability, it can hit the entire tier very hard with its STAB moves alone. However, it faces competition from Kyurem-W, which has more spammable STAB moves, is faster, and hits harder. Additionally, sun support is now virtually non-existent thanks to Primal Kyogre. Reshiram is also easily worn down by all forms of entry hazards, limiting it to being an average wallbreaker. Draco Meteor and Blue Flare are Reshiram's strongest STAB moves and deal huge damage to anything that doesn't resist them or is Blissey. Blue Flare also has a handy chance to burn. Roost helps to regain HP lost to recoil, entry hazards, and chip damage. Stone Edge has only one target: Ho-Oh, which otherwise easily walls Reshiram if Stealth Rock is not set up. Tailwind can be used over Stone Edge to have some speed control and to either help Reshiram sweep by itself or help the team when Reshiram is low on health. Maximum Special Attack and Speed EVs produce maximum offensive output. A Timid nature allows Reshiram to Speed tie or outspeed other base 90 Speed Pokemon and outspeed neutral-natured base 95 Speed Pokemon. Life Orb is used to hit hard while being able to switch moves, as locking Reshiram into any move gives a free turn to big threats: Blue Flare is a free switch for Primal Kyogre, Latias, and Latios, and Draco Meteor gives a free switch to Xerneas and Klefki. Flame Plate is a slightly weaker alternative that only boosts Fire-type attacks while causing no recoil and still allowing switching of moves. However, without Life Orb, Reshiram misses out on the OHKO on Ho-Oh. Reshiram should almost never be switched in on a damaging move, even though it's decently bulky, because it'll be taking lot of recoil and entry hazard damage already. Scizor and Ferrothorn provide switches for Reshiram, giving it a turn to fire off a strong attack and dent the opposing team. The use of moves such as Volt Switch and U-turn can provide opportunities for Reshiram to come in safely, such as when the opponent switches to a Pokemon that Reshiram can force out or threaten. Draco Meteor is slightly more spammable than Blue Flare because an opposing Xerneas or Klefki will almost never switch in due to fear of Blue Flare. Because Primal Kyogre can take both attacks rather well, it's more likely to switch in, and a Blue Flare is pretty much a free switch. Tailwind should be used either when Reshiram can clean by itself with the Speed boost or when it's low on health so it can help the team. Latias and Latios are good teammates, as they can handle Primal Groudon and Primal Kyogre while also providing Defog support and appreciate the removal of Steel-types. Support Arceus-Ghost helps Reshiram by burning Extreme Killer Arceus and Swords Dance Arceus-Ground while also providing Defog support. Geomancy Xerneas complements Reshiram by checking Tyranitar and bulky Arceus formes, while Reshiram gets rid of Steel-types and significantly weakens Primal Groudon. Regular Groudon can set up Stealth Rock to keep Ho-Oh in check while being a decent check to Primal Groudon that lack special attacks and Ho-Oh. Bulky Fairy-types can switch in on other Dragon-types for Reshiram, while Reshiram helps them by removing the Steel-types. A Choice Specs may be used to hit slightly harder, and either Dragon Pulse or Focus Blast can be used over Roost, but the inability to switch moves is very easily taken advantage of, as Reshiram's moves have popular switch-ins. A Choice Scarf can be used with a similar set for revenge killing, but it doesn't hit hard enough, and locking Reshiram into a move is easily taken advantage of. Dragon Pulse is a weaker STAB move with no other downside to it, but the lack in power is noticeable. Focus Blast hits Tyranitar and Arceus-Rock very hard, both of which don't take much from Reshiram's other moves. Earth Power is another option Reshiram has to hit incoming Diancie. Toxic threatens bulky Calm Mind Arceus formes that try to set up on Reshiram.
Reshiram (SS competitive strategy): Reshiram possesses a good offensive typing, great offensive stats, and an acceptable Speed tier, making it an extremely potent wallbreaker. It takes advantage of the prevalence of defensive Steel-types to blow holes through foes. However, Reshiram's typing is often a detriment defensively. Reshiram is susceptible to all entry hazards and weak to Stealth Rock, making it extremely easy to chip down. Its neutrality to Water means that other Dragon-types such as Eternatus and Palkia can fit onto teams much more easily. Similarly, Ho-Oh can take on Xerneas's Moonblast much better, leaving Reshiram's defensive capabilities completely overshadowed. All in all, Reshiram's biggest problem is the opportunity cost of running it on a team. Blue Flare is Reshiram's primary attack, threatening almost all foes and breaking through the common defensive Steel-types of the metagame, with its only downside being its 85% accuracy. It can OHKO physically defensive Necrozma-DM and is guaranteed to 2HKO specially defensive Yveltal as well as Xerneas. Draco Meteor is also extremely powerful and hits the foes that resist Blue Flare, such as Eternatus, Tyranitar, and Kyogre. Roost allows Reshiram to recover in front of the Steel-types that it threatens out. Stone Edge OHKOes Ho-Oh with a roll or with prior damage. Maximum Speed with a Naive nature ensures that Reshiram Speed ties with other base 90s, giving it more opportunities to get its strong attacks off. Reshiram fits best on more offensive teams, playing the role of stallbreaker. It appreciates entry hazard support to soften its checks: Spikes from Cloyster or Froslass can put specially defensive Necrozma-DM and Geomancy Xerneas in OHKO range of Blue Flare. It also puts Zekrom in OHKO range of -2 Draco Meteor. Groudon is a fantastic partner for Reshiram, setting up sun to boost its Blue Flare, setting up Stealth Rock, answering Ground- and Rock-type attacks thrown its way, and paralyzing foes so that Reshiram can outspeed them. In return, Reshiram can threaten opposing Groudon and Zygarde with its attacks. Outside of hyper offense, Defog support from Yveltal or Ho-Oh is paramount, as Reshiram is extremely easy to chip down between its weakness to Stealth Rock and Life Orb recoil. Yveltal in particular can use Taunt to stop entry hazards from being set up. Heavy-Duty Boots removes Reshiram's weakness to entry hazards, particularly Stealth Rock. However, Reshiram prefers to maximize its damage with Life Orb. Reshiram can utilize Choice Scarf or Choice Specs to become a revenge killer or an even scarier wallbreaker, but being locked into Blue Flare or Draco Meteor leaves it easily checked by Kyogre and Xerneas, respectively. Toxic is an option to wear down some of Reshiram's checks, such as Tyranitar and Ho-Oh, for both Reshiram and its teammates, but the chance to OHKO Ho-Oh with Stone Edge instead is usually too good to pass up. Fighting-type coverage in Body Press or Focus Blast helps Reshiram take on Blissey and Tyranitar. Body Press 2HKOes both Pokemon after Stealth Rock, while Focus Blast can OHKO Tyranitar with some prior chip damage.
Barbaracle (XY competitive strategy): With access to Shell Smash and respectable offensive stats, Barbaracle is a very potent sweeper in NU. This is furthered by Tough Claws, which gives essentially a Life Orb boost to contact moves such as Razor Shell and Cross Chop. In contrast to Carracosta, which shares Barbaracle's typing and role as a Shell Smash sweeper, Barbaracle has a significantly higher base Speed that allows it to outspeed the majority of Choice Scarf users after a boost, while Carracosta has to rely on Aqua Jet to hit them. However, Carracosta's combination of higher Defense and Solid Rock gives it more opportunities to set up, and its access to Aqua Jet gives Carracosta more early- and mid-game presence than Barbaracle. Barbaracle is also severely troubled by the abundance of Grass-types in NU, which put immense amounts of pressure on it. Shell Smash doubles Barbaracle's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed at the cost of lowering its defenses. Razor Shell is boosted by Tough Claws and is Barbaracle's primary STAB attack, hitting neutral and super effective targets for heavy damage. Return has solid neutral coverage overall, hitting most Pokemon that resist Water for decent damage, and it is also boosted by Tough Claws. Earthquake, despite not being boosted by Tough Claws, OHKOes Garbodor after a boost and avoids Rocky Helmet and Aftermath damage as well as hitting Lanturn hard. Substitute is an alternative to dodge status moves from the likes of Weezing, Mesprit, and Xatu at the cost of a coverage move. Maximum Attack and Speed investment is used to hit as hard and as quickly as possible. An Adamant nature is preferred over Jolly, as even with a neutral Speed nature Barbaracle hits 470 Speed after a Shell Smash, outpacing a significant portion of the metagame after a boost. However, a Jolly nature can be used if outspeeding positive-natured base 95 Speed Choice Scarf users such as Haunter and Jynx is important. Shuca Berry significantly weakens damage taken from Ground-type attacks, allowing Barbaracle to set up on Normal- and Flying-types such as Tauros, Kangaskhan, and Archeops, which carry Earthquake for coverage. Lum Berry can be used to avoid status conditions from the likes of Miltank, Weezing, and Misdreavus. Tough Claws significantly boosts the power of all of Barbaracle's contact moves. Barbaracle will often only get one opportunity in the match to set up, so make sure that you have either removed or significantly weakened its checks and counters first. With a Shuca Berry, Barbaracle can set up on Pokemon that would otherwise severely damage it with Earthquake, such as Archeops and Tauros. Set up on Choice-locked Pokemon such as Pyroar locked into Fire Blast and Scyther locked into Aerial Ace or against weaker defensive Pokemon such as Audino and Mawile. Wallbreakers such as Primeape, Tauros, and Haunter are good teammates, as they can wear down defensive cores for Barbaracle to sweep late-game. Fire- and Ice-types such as Pyroar, Magmortar, Aurorus, and Jynx act as wallbreakers and also threaten Grass-types, which are problematic for Barbaracle. Bulky Water-types are bothersome for Barbaracle, so Grass-types such as Lilligant, Cacturne, and Vileplume make for good teammates to cover them, and Vileplume also checks Grass-types thanks to its secondary Poison typing. Memento support from Jumpluff and Skuntank give Barbaracle more opportunities to set up. Healing Wish support from Mesprit, Lilligant, and Musharna is helpful to potentially give Barbaracle a second chance at sweeping. Razor Shell is Barbaracle's strongest Water-type STAB attack thanks to the Tough Claws boost as well as its most reliable attack in general, dealing considerable damage with near-perfect accuracy. Stone Edge is a secondary STAB attack that has near-perfect neutral coverage beside Razor Shell and is useful for hitting Flying-types very hard; however, Return is another option that gets similar coverage and a Tough Claws boost while being much more dependable because of its perfect accuracy at the cost of being less powerful. Superpower is the preferred move in the third slot, as it's capable of OHKOing offensive Normal-types such as Tauros and Kangaskhan as well as hitting Ferroseed, which resists both of Barbaracle's STAB attacks, super effectively; however, Earthquake is another option that hits Garbodor for super effective damage and does not come with the drawback of lowering Barbaracle's stats. Switcheroo allows Barbaracle to switch items with its target, potentially crippling a defensive Pokemon such as Vileplume, Gourgeist, or Gastrodon, which are common switch-ins to the Shell Smash set, by preventing it from recovering or making it setup bait for a teammate. The given EVs maximize Barbaracle's Speed and Attack to make it as effective an attacker as possible. Choice Scarf makes Barbaracle a fearsome revenge killer, combining its impressive power with the ability to outspeed the entire unboosted tier. An Adamant nature can be used to improve Barbaracle's attacking power; however, it will fail to outpace key threats such as Floatzel and Swellow without a Jolly nature. Tough Claws is easily Barbaracle's best ability, as it significantly boosts the power of its contact moves, particularly Razor Shell and Superpower. Barbaracle works best as a late-game cleaner due to the high Speed afforded by Choice Scarf, so try to conserve it for late in the game when its checks have been sufficiently weakened. Barbaracle should attempt to bluff a Shell Smash set by coming in and threatening out foes that it can reliably KO and outspeed. Be wary of locking Barbaracle into a move that the opponent can take advantage of, such as Razor Shell when they have a Poliwrath, as it can result in a considerable loss of momentum; this also applies to Superpower, which should only be used against Pokemon that will not be KOed by one of Barbaracle's STAB attacks. Barbaracle should attempt to use Switcheroo against defensively oriented teams, as it can cripple them, gain momentum, and free itself up to threaten the opposing team accordingly. Be wary of using Switcheroo against Pokemon with unfavorable items, such as Weezing's and Vileplume's Black Sludge, as getting inflicted with passive damage throughout the match effectively cripples Barbaracle and cuts into its longevity. Because Barbaracle's combination of high Speed and power will inevitably force almost constant switches, Spikes support is crucial to punish the opponent even if they predict correctly. Pokemon such as Garbodor and Ferroseed provide Spikes while having decent type synergy with Barbaracle. Barbaracle will often be locked into a commonly resisted move such as Stone Edge or Earthquake, forcing it to switch out; therefore, pairing it with bulky Pokemon that can pivot repeatedly into attacks, such as Weezing and bulky Scyther, is ideal. The former can also provide Toxic Spikes to take advantage of the many switches Barbaracle forces, while the latter provides phenomenal synergy and can conserve momentum with its powerful U-turn. Offensive Ghost-types such as Rotom and Mismagius make for great partners, as they resist nearly all of Barbaracle's weaknesses and can break through or cripple the physically defensive Pokemon such as Mega Audino and Ferroseed that give it trouble. Grass-types such as Lilligant and Ludicolo can deal with Gastrodon and Poliwrath, which resist Barbaracle's STAB combination, as well as other bulky Water-types. Cacturne in particular can deal with Gastrodon while also providing Spikes support. Mesprit, Xatu, and other Psychic-types can switch into Fighting-type attacks from the likes of Hitmonchan as well as heavily pressuring Poison-types such as Garbodor, Weezing, and Vileplume, which clears the way for Barbaracle to clean. Grass Knot is an option to hit Gastrodon, which would otherwise wall Barbaracle due to Storm Drain, as well as dealing substantial damage to Carracosta. In addition, Cross Chop is another coverage move that hits Ferroseed, but has very little use outside of that. Barbaracle can utilize a Stealth Rock lead set, as it has access to support moves such as Taunt and Endeavor. Although it is generally outperformed at this role by Archeops, Barbaracle's value as a lead comes from its Water-type STAB moves to target common Stealth Rock users such as Rhydon and its neutrality to Water unlike Archeops. Stone Edge hits Grass-types and some Water-types harder than Barbaracle's other main attacks, but it is generally not worth the moveslot, as Return is almost always more reliable thanks to its perfect accuracy and the fact that it is just as strong as a STAB Stone Edge. White Herb can be used to restore Barbarace's defenses after a Shell Smash, which is useful to soften the damage taken from priority attacks.
Barbaracle (SM competitive strategy): Barbaracle has carved itself a niche in the UnderUsed metagame as a potent Shell Smash sweeper due to its access to Liquidation and ability to viably run Rockium Z. Most teams are easily swept due to lack of preparation for Barbaracle, as they usually only have a couple decent checks for it and are more often than not unable to prevent it from gaining a good setup opportunity thanks to its great Defense and strong offensive typing. Barbaracle is also one of the tier's better stallbreakers, thanks to its ability to be a boosting Pokemon that can break past most of stall's typical answers like Quagsire. However, while Barbaracle is generally effective against most playstyles, it tends to struggle against most matchups where the opponent has one or two strong checks to Barbaracle and thus can dissuade it from ever setting up a Shell Smash. Furthermore, Barbaracle is a one-trick pony and requires its teammates to cater to it in order to function successfully in the tier. This reliance on being built around as well as its reliance on Shell Smash in order to become a potent threat makes Barbaracle a rather mediocre option when compared to other setup sweepers with more overall utility like Scizor. Shell Smash allows Barbaracle to act as an effective sweeper, boosting all of Barbaracle's offensive stats at the expense of lowering its defenses. Stone Edge is Barbaracle's main STAB attack, sporting high damage output despite being inaccurate. Liquidation is Barbaracle's second STAB attack, having high damage output as well as perfect accuracy. Grass Knot allows Barbaracle to hit the likes of Swampert, Seismitoad, and Quagsire for super effective damage, preventing them from stopping Barbaracle from sweeping. Earthquake is also an option, as it allows Barbaracle to hit valuable targets, such as Empoleon, Metagross, and Doublade, for super effective damage. Rockium Z is used to give Barbaracle an extremely powerful nuke to break past walls, such as Alomomola and Suicune, without the need for excessive chip damage, and it also allows Barbaracle to hit targets it normally would with Stone Edge without risking the miss chance; such targets include Volcanion and Latias. Tough Claws is the chosen ability, as it boosts the damage of Liquidation and Grass Knot and is more beneficial than other abilities, as Sniper is inconsistent and luck dependent and Pickpocket doesn't work with Barbaracle's Rockium Z. The given EVs and nature allow Barbaracle to outspeed everything up to Choice Scarf Mienshao while also ensuring Barbaracle does as much damage as possible. The first thing to be done when starting a match with Barbaracle is seeing what Barbaracle checks are present and if Barbaracle has any opportunities to set up. If Barbaracle's checks are many and are unable to be removed without at the same time still ensuring Barbaracle is able to set up, Barbaracle can be used as a sacrificial lamb in order to break past certain Pokemon through the use of Continental Crush for its teammates to clean afterwards. Barbaracle should only be sent in whenever an opportunity to set up and sweep is available. When a sweeping opportunity is taken and Barbaracle has already used Shell Smash, it is important to evaluate the use of Continental Crush, as sometimes it may be better to save it for targets that require the extra damage in order to be KOed, such as Suicune and Alomomola. If up against stall teams, typically one would attempt to use Barbaracle to either completely sweep through once anything bulky enough to take a hit, such as Mega Aggron, is weakened to a point whereby Barbaracle can KO it or try to weaken as many Pokemon as possible in order to clean up with another teammate. Pokemon with access to entry hazards make for excellent Barbaracle teammates, as Barbaracle greatly benefits from the chip damage in order to ease a sweep later on. Such Pokemon include Klefki, Nidoking, and Tentacruel. Pokemon that can set up Aurora Veil or dual screens, such as Alolan Sandslash and Klefki, can allow Barbaracle to set up much more easily. Cleaners and other sweepers, such as Mega Sharpedo and Cobalion, can capitalize on Barbaracle's wallbreaking capabilities to sweep past the remaining foes. Choice Scarf Latias is an amazing Barbaracle teammate due to its access to Healing Wish, ensuring Barbaracle can attempt to sweep multiple times in a match. Barbaracle tends to have difficulty being brought into the match freely, making VoltTurn users, such as Magneton, which also traps and removes Scizor, one of Barbaracle's best checks, and Mega Beedrill, which tends to lure in Gligar and Mega Aerodactyl, which Barbaracle can take advantage of to set up, good partners. Memento users, namely Choice Scarf Chandelure, also alleviate this issue. Cross Chop is an option over Earthquake in order to hit most Steel-types harder due to the higher damage and the Tough Claws boost, but it fails to hit Doublade and Metagross super effectively and is also an inaccurate move. Barbaracle has access to a variety of other setup moves like Swords Dance and Bulk Up, but they are all inferior options when compared to Shell Smash.
Barbaracle (SS competitive strategy): Barbaracle is a reliable Shell Smash sweeper due to its bulk and typing allowing it to set up on common Pokemon such as Incineroar, Crobat, and certain Togekiss variants. However, as a Shell Smash user, it faces competition from Cloyster due to its far-greater physical bulk and defensive typing, lending it more setup opportunities than Barbaracle. Grass Knot covers Gastrodon, which otherwise handles both STAB attacks. On the other hand, Protect is an option over Grass Knot because it allows Barbaracle to stop priority moves such as First Impression while also being able to scout Choice-locked Pokemon. Life Orb provides more damage output, allowing it to OHKO bulkless Celebi and Metagross via +2 Stone Edge and Liquidation, respectively. However, the Life Orb recoil coupled with the defensive drops from Shell Smash makes Barbaracle easy to wear down and revenge kill. White Herb can be used over Life Orb because it removes the Defense and Special Defense drops after a Shell Smash, which allows Barbaracle to not take as much damage when setting up. A Jolly nature is used to outspeed Choice Scarf Flygon after a Shell Smash. Barbaracle mainly fits on hyper offense teams, as it appreciates it checks to be quickly run over for an easy sweep or breaks for its teammates to clean up. Barbaracle likes to have dual screens support from the likes of Klefki so that it can get more opportunities to set up. Entry hazard support from Golisopod, Roserade, and the aforementioned Klefki can also be helpful so Barbaracle can wear down Pokemon Milotic and Sturdy Steelix, making it easier to secure an OHKO. Misty Terrain support from Galarian Weezing can be run alongside dual screens support because it negates the effect of status so Barbaracle can safely set up on Pokemon like Togekiss and Milotic. Water-types like Milotic and Suicune can stop Barbaracle's attempt at a sweep, so Pokemon to weaken or set upon them such as Lucario, Shift Gear Toxtricity, and Dragon Dance Regidrago make for great teammates. Pokemon that can threaten and set up on Grass-types like the aforementioned Toxtricity and Regidrago make helpful teammates. Fairy-types like Mimikyu are also helpful teammates, since they are able to use Fighting-types as setup bait.
Alcremie (SS competitive strategy): Calm Mind Alcremie serves as a physical wall that is able to check foes like Sawk, Shiftry, and Gurdurr thanks to its typing while doubling as a threatening setup sweeper. Mystical Fire threatens Steel-types like Klinklang and Alolan Dugtrio, which take little damage from Dazzling Gleam. Alternatively, Aromatherapy allows Alcremie to sponge status and break through walls like Toxic Clefairy while also supporting partners that dislike getting statused, such as Miltank, Tangela, and Coalossal. However, without Mystical Fire, Alcremie is unable to beat Steel-types. Aroma Veil provides a Taunt immunity, allowing Alcremie to set up against foes such as Golbat and Qwilfish lacking Poison Jab. Sweet Veil is an option, giving Alcremie an immunity to sleep-inducing moves used by Tangela and Jynx. Alcremie fits well on balance and bulky offense teams that appreciate its sweeping potential and defensive utility as a Fairy-type. Ground-types like Piloswine, Rhydon, and Stunfisk threaten Poison-types such as Silvally-Poison and Skuntank. Partners such as Cramorant and Altaria deal with Fire-types such as Rapidash and Ninetales, which can break through Alcremie. Teammates such as Rapidash, Qwilfish, and Manectric, which can check Steel-types, also make for great partners. Strong special wallbreakers such as Poliwrath, Thievul, and Exeggutor can heavily weaken special walls, putting them in range of Alcremie's attacks. This can be very important if Alcremie is not running Aromatherapy to disregard Toxic from threats such as Clefairy and Miltank. Double Dance Alcremie is great against stall and balance teams and has the potential to muscle through most teams once Dark-types have been removed. The combination of Calm Mind and Acid Armor bolsters Alcremie's bulk and Stored Power's base power to incredible levels. Stored Power is preferred for its ability to bypass Unaware Pyukumuku. Rest is used over Recover in order to play around Toxic and other status moves. Leftovers provides passive recovery, which is extremely valuable when Alcremie is asleep for two turns. However, Chesto Berry is an alternative that lets Alcremie fully heal once without drawback. Because of Alcremie's inability to hit Dark-types, this set appreciates teammates weakening them. Attackers such as Thievul, Gourgeist-Small, and Shiftry can weaken Dark-types, especially with entry hazard support from setters such as Qwilfish, Piloswine, and Stunfisk. Toxic Spikes Qwilfish put Dark-types on a timer, although Skuntank is immune to them and some Dark-types like Morpeko run Heavy-Duty Boots. Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Poliwrath, and Sawk check Dark- and Steel-types for Alcremie. Leftovers variants of Alcremie value having a sturdy defensive core to counteract its passivity and benefits from partners like Tangela and Altaria. Offensive Steel-types, mainly Alolan Dugtrio and Klinklang, need to be removed before Alcremie can sweep; therefore, teammates such as Rapidash and Sawk are appreciated. Offensive Alcremie is the best choice for an offensive Fairy-type. Mystical Fire nails Steel-types like Alolan Dugtrio and Klinklang. Psychic destroys Poison-types like Silvally-Poison, Qwilfish, and Golbat, while Calm Mind lets Alcremie break through special walls like Articuno and Clefairy. Heavy-Duty Boots makes it easier for Alcremie to utilize its great defensive typing and switch in against foes like Thievul, Sawk, and Gurdurr, while Life Orb makes Alcremie a better wallbreaker. Dark-types such as Shiftry, Silvally-Dark, and Morpeko enjoy Alcremie's ability to take on Fighting- and Dark-types such as Gurdurr and Alolan Persian. Physical wallbreakers such as Thwackey and Choice Band Sawk can force in physical walls and pivot, providing Alcremie with wallbreaking opportunities, while also threatening special walls such as Clefairy, which can handle Alcremie. Ground-types such as Rhydon, Stunfisk, and Piloswine check Fire- and Poison-types such as Rapidash and Silvally-Poison. Partners such as Qwilfish, Rapidash, and Appletun can also wall problematic Fire-types for Alcremie. Alcremie can run a specially defensive set, making good use of its insane special bulk, access to Aromatherapy, and immunity to Taunt; however, this set is usually outclassed by Clefairy, which has Magic Guard and a superior support movepool. Draining Kiss, while far weaker than Dazzling Gleam, makes Alcremie less reliant on Recover. Flame Orb can be used to avoid Toxic without resorting to Rest or Aromatherapy, but the constant chip damage jeopardizes Alcremie's bulk and limits its setup opportunities.
Regieleki (SS competitive strategy): Regieleki's phenomenal Speed tier and access to Rapid Spin allow it to act as a valuable entry hazard remover for offensive teams in AG. In addition, it can outspeed notable fast threats such as Choice Scarf Kyogre, Calyrex-S, and Zacian-C, enabling it to act as a revenge killer on such teams. Wild Charge deals immediate damage to bulky Flying-types such as Ho-Oh and Yveltal, as well as Kyogre, while hitting decently hard generally in conjunction with Transistor, allowing Regieleki to heavily damage Zacian-C. Explosion lets Regieleki KO itself once it has successfully removed entry hazards with Rapid Spin, generating momentum for its offensive teammates to enter safely and set up, while also potentially blocking opposing Defoggers from removing hazards set by Regieleki's teammates. Additionally, it KOes Eternatus and prevents Regieleki from being complete setup bait against the likes of Groudon, Zekrom, and Zygarde-C, bringing in teammates that can set up on these foes besides dealing damage. Assurance OHKOes Calyrex-S, even without prior hazard damage, and nails other Ghost-types like Lunala that spinblock Regieleki. Life Orb with an Adamant nature maximizes Regieleki's damage output, making it a better revenge killer and increasing damage against bulky walls such as Eternatus. Regieleki primarily fits on hyper offense teams, as they greatly appreciate its Rapid Spin support, and its fantastic Speed tier prevents fast threats such as Choice Scarf Kyogre, Zacian-C, and Calyrex-S from wrecking the team. Regieleki particularly struggles against entry hazard setters like Necrozma-DM and Ferrothorn, as their Rocky Helmet and Iron Barbs, respectively, can wear it down, while Wild Charge cannot deal too much damage against them. Its mediocre bulk leaves it very susceptible to their moves in return. Teammates that can pressure these foes such as Life Orb Yveltal, Calyrex-S, and Groudon are thus appreciated. Regieleki struggles against Electric-resistant Pokemon such as Groudon, Zekrom, and Zygarde-C, only having Explosion to meaningfully hit them. Teammates that can enter after Explosion and deal with them such as Xerneas, Calyrex-S, and Life Orb Yveltal are beneficial. Regieleki can run a dual screens set with Light Clay, providing extremely valuable turns to let offensive teammates set up with more ease. It can also use Explosion once it has set them up, bringing in an aforementioned teammate without any risk. However, it faces stiff competiton from Grimmsnarl as a dual screens lead, which has Prankster for a nearly guaranteed Reflect or Light Screen while providing other useful support with Taunt and Thunder Wave.
Eldegoss (SS competitive strategy): Eldegoss is one of the best Rapid Spin users in the tier, thanks to it being able to deal with and status Ghost-types, such as Doublade and Jellicent. Eldegoss is also an excellent defensive pivot, mainly because Regenerator keeps it healthy without losing momentum. It can also check most of the Ground-, Water-, and Rock-types in the tier, such as Sandaconda, Jellicent, and Regirock, with ease because their best option is often just to status Eldegoss in some manner. Eldegoss also offers great support with moves such as Sleep Powder, Charm, Stun Spore, Leech Seed, and Aromatherapy. However, because of Eldegoss's lackluster coverage and Special Attack, it must resort to status against Pokemon that resist Grass such as Perrserker and Weezing. It struggles the most against other Grass-type Pokemon, such as Ferroseed, Whimsicott, and Trevenant, since they're immune to Sleep Powder and Leech Seed. Because pure Grass-types have so many weaknesses and because Eldegoss can't run all the moves it wants at once, Pokemon like Charizard and Doublade really take advantage of it. Giga Drain heals defensive Eldegoss, but it can instead use Grass Knot to be less passive versus common heavy Pokemon, such as Aggron, Gigalith, and Jellicent. Sleep Powder and Leech Seed are both fantastic options to annoy its non-Grass-type switch-ins. Stun Spore is a very niche option but can be very beneficial for slower wallbreakers, such as Perrserker and Arctovish. Charm is mainly used to annoy Doublade, but it can still help with other physical attackers. Heavy-Duty Boots is by far the best item choice for Eldegoss, as it tends to switch in a lot to sponge damage. Eject Button is a risky item choice but can give a free switch for a wallbreaker, and once that's done Eldegoss switches into Poltergeist. However, sometimes a free switch doesn't do anything meaningful, and Eject Button won't activate versus Knock Off. Because Eldegoss lacks the coverage to meaningfully deal with Grass-resistant Pokemon, such as Charizard and Ribombee, Pokemon like Wishiwashi and Gigalith are a big help to switch into them. Eldegoss in return checks some of their switch-ins like Sandaconda and Jellicent while keeping them status free; other Pokemon that appreciate Eldegoss's cleric support are Togedemaru, Silvally-Ghost, and Perrserker, as they all must avoid burns to function at their best. One can opt to use a much more offensive build with Eldegoss, making it less passive and harder to switch in on. Leaf Storm is Eldegoss's strongest move, but one needs to be mindful of its low PP. Grass Knot can be used to avoid this but comes with the downside of its inconsistent Base Power. This Eldegoss variant can actually harm other Grass-types such as Ferroseed, Whimsicott, and even other Eldegoss with Pollen Puff. Synthesis is an option given this set's reduced bulk and ability to keep momentum better, but it's very team and matchup dependent, and Regenerator is usually enough to keep Eldegoss healthy. 36 Speed EVs are to outspeed the common defensive Jellicent. Heavy-Duty Boots keeps this offensive variant as healthy as possible, and it's especially useful versus Toxic Spikes. Pokemon such as Togedemaru, Archeops, and Charizard make for excellent teammates, as they can help lure in Water-, Ground-, and Rock-types such as Sandaconda, Gigalith, and Jellicent for Eldegoss. Eldegoss does well on Spikes-stacking teams, appreciate how they apply pressure with entry hazards, which helps gives it momentum to pivot in and spin. Doublade, Gigalith, Sandslash, and Eldegoss make an excellent base for one of these teams, as they help cover each other's weaknesses.
Dracozolt (SS competitive strategy): In sand, Dracozolt is one of the tier's most threatening wallbreakers thanks to its great Speed and signature move Bolt Beak, which doubles in power when Dracozolt moves first. It easily beats both offensive and defensive staples like Tornadus-T, Tapu Lele, Toxapex, and Corviknight. Whether it is by trapping and weakening Pokemon like Landorus-T, Ferrothorn, and Garchomp with Fire Spin or simply running coverage, Dracozolt can overcome traditional checks to Electric-types. Unfortunately, Dracozolt is reliant on sand, as it is very slow and easy to offensively pressure outside it. It has mediocre bulk and can be worn down quickly by entry hazards, especially with Life Orb. Finally, Dracozolt is reliant on prediction to nail switch-ins to Bolt Beak and utilize limited sand turns, which sometimes makes it very underwhelming. Draco Meteor is a strong secondary STAB move to hit Ground-types like Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Nidoking. Substitute allows Dracozolt to take advantage of the switches it forces, easing prediction, and avoid status moves from Pokemon it can trap with Fire Spin, such as Ferrothorn's Leech Seed and Tangrowth's Sleep Powder. If Dracozolt has a Substitute up, it can still safely attack one time outside of sand. Fire Spin allows Dracozolt to trap passive Pokemon like Ferrothorn and especially Clefable, easing prediction, and wear down some of its checks that lack reliable recovery, like Landorus-T and Ferrothorn. 140 Special Attack EVs let Dracozolt beat defensive Landorus-T. To do this, it must hit Landorus-T on the switch with Draco Meteor, then switch out. Later in the match, the combination of Fire Spin and Draco Meteor will then be able to KO it. 184 Speed EVs allow Dracozolt to outspeed Choice Scarf Landorus-T in sand. The remaining EVs are pooled into Attack to increase Bolt Beak's damage output. A Lonely nature guarantees that Dracozolt survives Clefable's Moonblast from full health and 2HKOes specially defensive Tyranitar with Bolt Beak, and it doesn't weaken Draco Meteor. Leftovers is the preferred item to heal off Substitute damage and weaker attacks. Dracozolt is used exclusively on sand cores. Consequently, Tyranitar or Hippowdon is a necessary teammate. Both of them can also set Stealth Rock for Dracozolt. Excadrill is also common on these sand cores; it can either sweep teams with Swords Dance once Dracozolt has weakened them or cripple shared checks like Tangrowth and Landorus-T with Toxic, making them even easier to trap and eliminate. Dracozolt's ability to trap Clefable and Ferrothorn is appreciated by Pokemon like Tornadus-T and Scizor, and they can give Dracozolt free turns against many of their checks like Corviknight by using U-turn. Skarmory can set Spikes, which is particularly useful for wearing down Dracozolt's checks like Hippowdon, Ferrothorn, and Melmetal as Dracozolt forces them in, and it also checks Excadrill. Dracozolt's poor bulk gives it few opportunities to switch in safely, making Teleport users like Slowbro and Slowking useful. Future Sight from either also stops many of Dracozolt's defensive checks, like Clefable and Landorus-T, from switching into it safely. Landorus-T and Corviknight are helpful teammates to check Pokemon like Excadrill for Dracozolt, and they draw in defensive Pokemon that it beats like Skarmory and bring it in safely with U-turn against them. Landorus-T also cripples Tangrowth and opposing Landorus-T with Toxic. With Life Orb's damage boost, Dracozolt can effectively utilize coverage moves to hit Pokemon that resist its STAB moves. Earthquake hits Excadrill and Electric-types like Tapu Koko and Zeraora, and it OHKOes Heatran, which could otherwise survive a hit and do significant damage back with Earth Power. Fire Blast hits Grass-types like Ferrothorn and the rarer Tangrowth and Tapu Bulu. 184 Speed EVs and 176 Special Attack EVs allow Dracozolt to outspeed Choice Scarf Landorus-T in sand and OHKO SubRoost Kyurem with Draco Meteor. The remaining EVs are placed into Attack to increase Bolt Beak's damage output. A Naughty nature instead of Lonely lets Dracozolt take priority moves from Pokemon like Rillaboom and Weavile slightly better. Either Tyranitar or Hippowdon is required to set sand for Dracozolt. Both can check some offensive threats that Dracozolt struggles against, such as Kyurem behind a Substitute for the former and Sand Rush Excadrill for the latter. Garchomp is another Pokemon that fits on sand cores, and it appreciates Dracozolt wearing down their shared checks like Landorus-T, Clefable, and Tangrowth. Pivots like Dragapult, defensive Landorus-T, and Slowking can draw in Pokemon that Dracozolt can beat, like Mandibuzz, Corviknight, and Blissey, and bring it in safely with U-turn or Teleport to start wallbreaking. Slowking is particularly notable, as Future Sight is useful for pressuring Dracozolt's checks like Landorus-T and Clefable. Corviknight and Skarmory are consistent checks to the majority of Ground-types and Rillaboom, which often trouble sand teams. The former can also use its slow U-turn to bring Dracozolt in safely, while the latter sets Spikes to wear down its checks. Clefable can cripple faster Pokemon like Heatran with Thunder Wave, making Dracozolt not deadweight outside of sand, or support it with Aromatherapy. Fire Blast can be used over Fire Spin on the Substitute set for more immediate damage against Pokemon like Ferrothorn, Excadrill, and Melmetal. However, it requires a lot of prediction to be effective, and these Pokemon are still able to pivot around Dracozolt, making Fire Spin's ability to trap them preferred. Taunt can be used on the Life Orb set to force out passive Pokemon like Ferrothorn, but Dracozolt dislikes having to give up a coverage move for it, and it should spend its sand turns attacking. High Horsepower can replace Earthquake on teams with Rillaboom so Dracozolt is not weakened by Grassy Terrain.
Mandibuzz (XY competitive strategy): Mandibuzz offers a unique set of defensive traits, most notably a strong typing, respectable stats in those areas, and reliable recovery in Roost. This combination allows it to fare well against many top threats like Celebi, Krookodile, Gyarados, and Mega Sceptile. It also has access to some useful utility moves in Defog, Foul Play, U-turn, and Knock Off. These factors combine to make Mandibuzz one of the better defensive pivots the tier has to offer. However, largely due to its reliance on Foul Play to do meaningful damage, Mandibuzz finds itself much worse off against bulky Pokemon like Bulk Up Conkeldurr and Florges. Additionally, status moves can severely cripple its longevity and general defensive uses. Foul Play is Mandibuzz's main Dark-type STAB move, allowing it to reliably check Gyarados and Mega Swampert while dealing solid chunks to physical threats such as Mega Aerodactyl, Krookodile, and Swords Dance Cobalion when needed. Roost keeps Mandibuzz healthy enough to sponge hits from foes like Celebi, Krookodile, Hydreigon, and Gyarados. Defog removes all entry hazards, most notably letting Mandibuzz itself switch more comfortably into Dazzling Gleam Celebi and Hydreigon. U-turn allows Mandibuzz to get teammates such as Nidoqueen, Roserade, and Mega Aerodactyl into favorable positions to fulfill their respective roles. Alternatively, Knock Off can remove the Leftovers of bulky Pokemon like Swampert, Florges, and Empoleon or cripple item-reliant foes like Nidoqueen and Gligar. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment lets Mandibuzz match up with attackers like Celebi, Mega Sceptile, Mega Blastoise, and Hydreigon as well as possible. Leftovers provides Mandibuzz with passive recovery, helping to keep it healthy enough to handle the threats it is meant to. Overcoat most notably lets Mandibuzz counter Roserade, providing it with an immunity to Sleep Powder. Pivot Mandibuzz into Pokemon it is meant to handle such as Celebi, Krookodile, Gyarados, and Roserade. Use these favorable positions to deal damage back with Foul Play, remove entry hazards with Defog, or get off a slow U-turn to get a teammate into a good spot. As it is weak to Stealth Rock, Defog is often most useful in keeping Mandibuzz itself healthy, letting it continually come in against the aforementioned threats. The best course of action following a switch into a full health Celebi as it uses Nasty Plot is often to slow U-turn out into a fast teammate that can easily pick off a weakened Celebi. While it counters any non-Dazzling Gleam variant, Mandibuzz is 2HKOed if they do have it, making U-turn the superior play to the slightly stronger alternative in Foul Play. Generally, burns and poisons should be avoided, as they can weaken its attacks or limit effectiveness defensively, but at times they are necessary to stomach. Examples include switching into Roserade's Sludge Bomb or attempting to get off a slow U-turn after Suicune's Scald. Knock Off is useful in removing the Leftovers of troublesome walls or when in the face of Pokemon like Nidoqueen and Gligar that depend on their items to be effective. If paired with Florges, Mandibuzz can often be the preferred switch-in to special attackers like Hydreigon and Mega Sceptile, as it can easily take their attacks and gain momentum with U-turn, whereas Florges may be forced to use Synthesis following Hydreigon's Flash Cannon or Mega Sceptile's Leaf Storm. Mandibuzz can fit on a variety of playstyles ranging from bulky offense to stall due to its defensive uses and general utility. If carrying U-turn, it is essential that Mandibuzz have a partner such as Pursuit Mega Aerodactyl or U-turn Infernape that can pick off a weakened Celebi, as that is often a common scenario in dealing with it. Poison-types like Nidoqueen and Roserade heavily appreciate the positioning against Fairy-types that Mandibuzz can provide via U-turn. The two can proceed to set entry hazards and throw out their powerful attacks. Florges and Colbur Berry Psychic Slowking share fantastic defensive synergy with Mandibuzz, checking its main bane in Bulk Up Conkeldurr. Additionally, Florges gives cleric support and can take pressure off of Mandibuzz in handling foes like Hydreigon, Mega Sceptile, and Mega Blastoise. Slowking fares well against threats like Cobalion, Entei, and Mega Aerodactyl. In return, Mandibuzz deals with Pokemon like Celebi, Roserade, and Krookodile that can potentially muscle past these partners. Suicune makes for a solid partner, checking Mega Aerodactyl and absorbing status moves aimed at Mandibuzz, while Mandibuzz can handle some of Suicune's most prominent answers in Mega Sceptile, Celebi, and Roserade. Steel-types such as Mega Aggron, Mega Steelix, and Doublade pair nicely with Mandibuzz, covering its main weakness in Fairy and appreciating the easy positioning it provides against them to perform their roles. The latter two can viably run Toxic alongside Mandibuzz to cripple Swampert and Cresselia, which can often be difficult for it to deal with despite their initially poor damage output against it. Toxic lets Mandibuzz cripple Swampert, Cresselia, and Slowking, but it is often difficult to fit over other moves. Teammates can often carry this move to cripple the intended targets and aid Mandibuzz in dealing with them one-on-one. Taunt is an option alongside Toxic to more effectively deal with bulky foes, but it suffers heavily from the presence of threatening Fighting-types and bulky Fairy-type clerics.
Mandibuzz (SS competitive strategy): Mandibuzz's typing, excellent mixed bulk, reliable recovery, and good utility options make it a great defensive Pokemon in UU, checking many offensive threats such as Excadrill, Azelf, Gyarados, and Zarude. It is also a decent Defogger with solid matchups against entry hazard setters such as Excadrill and Jirachi. Mandibuzz's relatively high Speed for a defensive Pokemon lets it get the jump on slower wallbreakers such as Primarina without investing too much into its Speed. However, its reliance on Heavy-Duty Boots leaves it with a crippling weakness to Knock Off from Pokemon that Mandibuzz tries to pivot into such as Scizor and Tangrowth. If it loses its item, Mandibuzz easily gets overwhelmed, as it often has to deal with numerous threats and is forced to use Roost often. Mandibuzz's typing also leaves it weak to common threats such as Nihilego, Thundurus-T, Azumarill, and Primarina. Foul Play allows Mandibuzz to hit Excadrill and Gyarados for big damage and discourage them from using their setup moves in front of it. Knock Off punishes switch-ins like Primarina and Nihilego by removing their items. Defog can also be used due to its good matchup against certain entry hazard setters such as Excadrill and Jirachi, but Mandibuzz can't beat other setters like Nihilego or Hippowdon, and struggles longer term versus Skarmory, especially Toxic variants, so it should only be run if absolutely necessary. Taunt can shut down defensive Pokemon such as Chansey and Celesteela that rely on passive damage to break through Mandibuzz, and prevent Skarmory from setting Spikes up against it as well as Toxic from Hippowdon. Brave Bird lets it hit Conkeldurr, Tapu Bulu, and Keldeo super effectively. U-turn lets Mandibuzz pivot out of unfavorable matchups such as Nihilego and Nidoking and bring in a teammate that can threaten them. Overcoat lets Mandibuzz pivot in on Spore from Amoonguss and ignore damage from Hippowdon's Sand Stream, though it must be wary of Sludge Bomb poisons. 96 Speed EVs let Mandibuzz outspeed Modest Primarina, with the remaining EVs invested in physical bulk to maximize its ability to take on wallbreakers like Zygarde-10% and Dragon Dance Salamence. Mandibuzz is found on bulky offense and balance teams as a solid glue, combining the roles of pivot, mixed wall, and Ghost resist into one teammate. Amoonguss is a great partner that absorbs Knock Off and covers Mandibuzz's matchups against Azumarill and Primarina, while Mandibuzz checks threats such as Salamence. Together they can limit Scizor throughout a game as well. Excadrill can provide Rapid Spin support to free Mandibuzz from running Defog while checking Hatterene and Nihilego. Colbur Berry Slowking and Swampert check threats such as Conkeldurr, Nihilego, and Cobalion, and they appreciate Mandibuzz's ability to check Gyarados and Zarude. In addition, Mandibuzz forms a pivot core with both. Hippowdon and Nihilego appreciate Mandibuzz checking Excadrill and Zarude. Their good special bulk lets them pivot into Thundurus-T and Hydreigon. Frail wallbreakers such as Zygarde-10% and Nidoking struggle to switch in, so they appreciate the slow U-turn Mandibuzz provides. Keldeo and Scizor can remove threats to Mandibuzz like Hippowdon and Nihilego and form momentum cores with it. Toxic punishes switch-ins like Thundurus-T and Hippowdon. Whirlwind phazes out threats Mandibuzz cannot handle like Primarina and Cobalion.
Mandibuzz (SV competitive strategy): Mandibuzz has a solid niche in the UU metagame thanks to a unique and solid defensive typing, great mixed walling capabilities, and access to rare utility options like Defog and Toxic that make it a valuable addition to bulkier builds. Foul Play lets it threaten out Pokemon like Metagross, Excadrill, Scizor, and Belly Drum Azumarill. Defog lets Mandibuzz remove entry hazards for its teammates, especially against threats like Metagross and Rhyperior, although the latter might require more precise positioning than the former; it must be hit with Toxic first to be worn down, allowing Mandibuzz to utilize its natural bulk to tank Stone Edge, freely use Defog, and then use Roost to heal off the damage while not being trapped in a healing cycle due to the inability to progress against Rhyperior. Roost keeps it healthy throughout a match, allowing it to repeatedly come in and check Latios, Excadrill, Ogerpon, and Scizor. Toxic alleviates Mandibuzz's passivity a bit, threatening opposing bulky Pokemon like Slowking and Tornadus-T and setup sweepers like Nasty Plot Hydrapple and Calm Mind Tera Electric Latios. U-turn is an alternative to either Defog or Toxic that allows it to act as a slow pivot to maintain momentum against counters like Cobalion and Tinkaton, but Mandibuzz does not usually fit on the offensive structures that necessitate the need of U-turn to keep it from being a momentum sink. Heavy-Duty Boots keeps away the pesky damage from entry hazards. The given Speed investment allows Mandibuzz to outspeed Azumarill, while the Special Defense investment allows it to survive two Soul Dew-boosted Draco Meteors from Latios. Tera Steel helps Mandibuzz better answer foes like Latios and Greninja while flipping the script against foes like Ogerpon-C and shielding it from opposing Toxic. Tera Fairy lets it counter Dragon-types like Latios much more reliably, especially if it chooses to carry Toxic, and allows Mandibuzz to now gain a Fighting resistance while keeping its Ground neutrality against Excadrill. Mandibuzz best fits on balance and stall builds that enjoy its mixed walling and key utility features. Skeledirge is a great partner, as its typing and ability let it handle annoying Pokemon like Hydrapple and Cobalion somewhat consistently, while also helping against Tera Electric Calm Mind Latios. Toxapex also is a great partner, being a fantastic Knock Off absorber against Tornadus-T and Lokix, while also handling threats like Azumarill and Greninja that Mandibuzz struggles against. Tinkaton can not only act as a secondary check to Latios so that Mandibuzz won't get overwhelmed, but also beat the threatening Ogerpon-C. Rhyperior and Hippowdon can check Hisuian Arcanine, which Mandibuzz struggles against. Excadrill is another Pokemon that can give Mandibuzz trouble, so a check like Hydrapple or Slowking is necessary. Slowking also has the benefit of providing more assurance against Latios. Mandibuzz has a solid niche in the UU metagame thanks to a unique and solid defensive typing, great mixed walling capabilities, and access to rare utility options like Defog and Toxic that make it a valuable addition to bulkier builds. Foul Play lets it threaten out Pokemon like Metagross, Excadrill, Scizor, and Belly Drum Azumarill. Defog lets Mandibuzz remove entry hazards for its teammates, especially against threats like Metagross and Rhyperior, although the latter might require more precise positioning than the former; it must be hit with Toxic first to be worn down, allowing Mandibuzz to utilize its natural bulk to tank Stone Edge, freely use Defog, and then use Roost to heal off the damage while not being trapped in a healing cycle due to the inability to progress against Rhyperior. Roost keeps it healthy throughout a match, allowing it to repeatedly come in and check Latios, Excadrill, Ogerpon, and Scizor. Toxic alleviates Mandibuzz's passivity a bit, threatening opposing bulky Pokemon like Slowking and Tornadus-T and setup sweepers like Nasty Plot Hydrapple and Calm Mind Tera Electric Latios. U-turn is an alternative to either Defog or Toxic that allows it to act as a slow pivot to maintain momentum against counters like Cobalion and Tinkaton, but Mandibuzz does not usually fit on the offensive structures that necessitate the need of U-turn to keep it from being a momentum sink. Heavy-Duty Boots keeps away the pesky damage from entry hazards. The given Speed investment allows Mandibuzz to outspeed Azumarill, while the Special Defense investment allows it to survive two Soul Dew-boosted Draco Meteors from Latios. Tera Steel helps Mandibuzz better answer foes like Latios and Greninja while flipping the script against foes like Ogerpon-C and shielding it from opposing Toxic. Tera Fairy lets it counter Dragon-types like Latios much more reliably, especially if it chooses to carry Toxic, and allows Mandibuzz to now gain a Fighting resistance while keeping its Ground neutrality against Excadrill. Mandibuzz best fits on balance and stall builds that enjoy its mixed walling and key utility features. Skeledirge is a great partner, as its typing and ability let it handle annoying Pokemon like Hydrapple and Cobalion somewhat consistently, while also helping against Tera Electric Calm Mind Latios. Toxapex also is a great partner, being a fantastic Knock Off absorber against Tornadus-T and Lokix, while also handling threats like Azumarill and Greninja that Mandibuzz struggles against. Tinkaton can not only act as a secondary check to Latios so that Mandibuzz won't get overwhelmed, but also beat the threatening Ogerpon-C. Rhyperior and Hippowdon can check Hisuian Arcanine, which Mandibuzz struggles against. Excadrill is another Pokemon that can give Mandibuzz trouble, so a check like Hydrapple or Slowking is necessary. Slowking also has the benefit of providing more assurance against Latios.
Chien Pao (SV competitive strategy): Chien-Pao possesses the coveted-yet-crowded base 135 Speed tier and can even get the jump on its peers with Ice Shard and Sucker Punch, making it a nice revenge killer and late-game cleaner; Ice Shard in particular stands out in a metagame with numerous fast Dragon-types. Its Dark / Ice STAB combination matches up well into defensive staples like Necrozma-DM, Arceus-Ground, and Ting-Lu, and Icicle Crash can also potentially flinch through otherwise solid counterplay like Ho-Oh. However, Chien-Pao is exceedingly frail and entry hazard-weak, making getting it onto the field safely, let alone multiple times, quite difficult. This also means it offers exactly no defensive utility to its team. Due to the low Base Power of its moves, it is also relatively weak by Ubers standards without finding a turn to use Swords Dance, which is hard to find due to its frailty. Chien-Pao is also scared to death of Zacian-C, which outspeeds it and resists both STAB types. Kingambit also provides heavy competition, as it has substantially better bulk, resists Stealth Rock, and boasts an even stronger Sucker Punch late-game, at the cost of much worse Speed. Ultimately, Chien-Pao's Speed, priority, and STAB combination make it a noteworthy cleaner, but it still finds itself more limited compared to metagame staples like Koraidon and Zacian-C. Swords Dance Chien-Pao is a threatening late-game cleaner once Arceus formes that are not weak to Chien-Pao's STAB moves have been chipped sufficiently. Icicle Crash is Chien-Pao's strongest STAB move, provides key coverage against the plethora of Ground-types, and can provide a flinch in a pinch all while dodging Rocky Helmet. Crunch is Chien-Pao's most reliable secondary STAB move, hitting Necrozma-DM, Arceus-Water, and Kyogre, while Sucker Punch is its strongest priority move by far against neutral targets. Ice Shard is notable to revenge kill Koraidon and Miraidon while also not failing against setup moves and can be run over either Dark STAB move. Life Orb is the preferred item to secure the OHKO against defensive Necrozma-DM and 2HKO against Arceus-Water after Swords Dance, and given Chien-Pao’s frailty, the recoil is often insignificant. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Chien-Pao to be played aggressively in the early-to-mid-game to help break down the opposing core itself and pick off weakened targets, while Black Glasses still secures key KOs like Necrozma-DM without recoil. Jolly is the preferred nature to Speed tie Koraidon, Miraidon, and opposing Chien-Pao while outspeeding Arceus, Mewtwo, and +1 Necrozma-DM and Iron Treads, but Adamant is an option, especially on double priority sets that care less about the Speed tier. Chien-Pao thrives best when it is tasked with cleaning up a weakened team. As such, powerful physical wallbreakers like Koraidon and Arceus-Ground that can lure in and weaken their shared checks like Arceus-Fairy are excellent teammates. Chien-Pao also loves entry hazards being up on the opposing side, making teammates like Gliscor and Ting-Lu wonderful partners. Chien-Pao is helpless against Zacian-C, making a strong answer to it like Ho-Oh a great teammate. Additionally, strong opposing priority users like Arceus offset Chien-Pao's biggest advantage, so a reliable answer to it like defensive Arceus-Ground is recommended. Especially if running Life Orb, Chien-Pao struggles to get onto the field without taking tremendous chip damage, making pivoting teammates like Gliscor, Koraidon, and Miraidon valuable partners; Miraidon especially draws in the Ground-types like Ting-Lu and Gliscor that Chien-Pao feasts on. Extreme Killer Arceus is an excellent teammate, as they form a strong priority core together; Arceus also often forces Tera Ghost on opposing setup sweepers, making them weaker to Chien-Pao's Sucker Punch. Glimmora is a useful partner especially on hyper offense teams to provide entry hazard support and clear Stealth Rock with Mortal Spin. Choice Band gives Chien-Pao the best chance to 2HKO walls like Necrozma-DM and revenge kill Miraidon and Koraidon after moderate chip. Icicle Crash is the main STAB option thanks to its flinch chance and better Base Power while also avoiding Rocky Helmet, while Ice Spinner doesn't miss and can reset Miraidon's Electric Terrain. Crunch is its most reliable Dark-type STAB move, hitting Arceus-Water, Kyogre, and Necrozma-DM. Double priority in Sucker Punch and Ice Shard lets it pack both power and coverage, nailing anything that might be faster including Iron Bundle, Miraidon, and even Calyrex-I in Trick Room. Tera Dark and Ice can both be used to power up Chien-Pao's STAB attacks; Tera Ice has a chance to OHKO both Miraidon and Koraidon with Ice Shard, while Tera Dark secures the 2HKO against Ho-Oh and has a high chance to 2HKO Arceus-Water. Choice Band Chien-Pao is a useful revenge killer and wallbreaker for offensive teams. Since it forgoes Heavy-Duty Boots and would love to switch in multiple times to mitigate the effect of Choice-lock, it pairs well with Iron Treads, which can clear entry hazards and even pivot Chien-Pao in. Zacian-C can easily revenge kill Chien-Pao and even grab a Swords Dance if locked into Sucker Punch or Ice Shard, making strong counterplay like Landorus-T and defensive Arceus-Ground or revenge killers like Choice Scarf Koraidon mandatory teammates. Physically offensive teammates like Koraidon and Necrozma-DM appreciate being able to clean teams Chien-Pao has weakened; alternatively, they can punch holes for Chien-Pao to clean up. Extreme Killer Arceus is an excellent teammate, as it forms a powerful priority core with Chien-Pao and can draw out Tera Ghost for it. An all-out attacker set with Heavy-Duty Boots can be used for the maximum amount of coverage and priority while still changing moves in the early- and mid-game, but it generally lacks power compared to the above sets and struggles to even 2HKO defensive staples like Arceus. Sacred Sword provides coverage for Arceus and Kingambit and does non-pitiful damage to Zacian-C, but Chien-Pao struggles to justify it over its primary STAB moves and priority options. Tera Ghost can catch out Extreme Speed Arceus but otherwise is far worse than damage-amplifying Tera types. Focus Sash can be run on hyper offense structures to take a hit but requires significant entry hazard counterplay.
Malamar (XY competitive strategy): Malamar poses a great threat in the NU metagame thanks to the combination of Contrary and Superpower, which allows it to boost its Attack and Defense stat while attacking. Malamar also has great coverage in Fighting / Dark, making it very hard to check for offensive and defensive teams alike. With investment, Malamar is capable of tanking a lot of strong special attacks such as Swellow's Boomburst and Magmortar's Fire Blast. On the downside, while Malamar's defensive typing leaves it with few weaknesses, it provides no resistances and only an immunity to Psychic-type moves, hindering its defensive utility; this is further compounded by Malamar's lack of physical bulk. Additionally, Malamar's Psychic / Dark typing leaves it vulnerable to common Bug-type moves such as Scyther's U-turn, Mesprit's Signal Beam, and Samurott's Megahorn. Superpower is a strong attack that boosts Malamar's Attack and Defense when used and hits Dark-, Steel-, and Normal-types super effectively. Knock Off is a strong STAB move that is able to cripple Pokemon such as Scyther and Weezing by removing their item. Rest provides Malamar with a way to rid itself of status as well as recover HP. Sleep Talk allows Malamar to attack while asleep, preventing it from becoming setup fodder for opposing Pokemon. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment allows Malamar to most efficiently take special attacks. Leftovers gives Malamar a means of passive recovery, allowing it to survive longer throughout battles. Contrary turns stat drops into boosts and vice versa, meaning Superpower hits the foe with 120 Base Power while also boosting both Malamar's Attack and Defense. Malamar's best use is as a mid- or late-game cleaner once its checks and counters, such as Scyther and Weezing, are weakened. Use Superpower on something it hits super effectively or more passive foes such as Vileplume and Rotom-S to potentially start a sweep with the boosts Superpower gives. Use Knock Off early-game to whittle down checks and counters before setting up late-game. Be wary of Bug-type coverage moves such as Signal Beam from Mesprit and Megahorn from Samurott. If Malamar is low on health or inflicted with status, use Rest to heal up. Malamar can be switched into sleep-inducing moves such as Sleep Powder from Vivillon and Lovely Kiss from Jynx to pick up momentum and prevent a teammate from having to go to sleep. Malamar tends to fit best on balanced teams in need of a specially bulky Pokemon and a wincon. Entry hazard support from the likes of Rhydon, Steelix, and Garbodor helps Malamar a great deal considering most of its checks, such as Scyther, are susceptible to hazards. Strong wallbreakers such as Kangaskhan and Samurott are able to weaken the opponent's bulkier Pokemon to pave the way for a late-game sweep from Malamar; additionally, Primeape can lure Scyther and surprise it with Stone Edge and weaken Mega Audino greatly, making it much easier for Malamar to sweep. Steel-types like Steelix and Klinklang are able to take on Musharna and Mega Audino, which are two of Malamar's best checks. Scyther is also a common check to Malamar, so it appreciates Pokemon such as Rhydon and Rotom to check it. A more offensive set with an EV spread of 248 HP / 148 SpD / 112 Spe and a Careful nature running Superpower, Knock Off, Psycho Cut, and either Substitute or Rest can be used, though it is a lot less effective than RestTalk and is easily worn down. The main appeal to using this set is to surprise Weezing with a Psychic-type attack, as Weezing is normally an excellent defensive answer to Malamar. Support moves such as Topsy-Turvy, Destiny Bond, and Taunt can be helpful to take on some of Malamar's checks, though they are very situational and not as effective as Malamar's RestTalk set. Rock Slide can be used to lure and KO Scyther, which is one of Malamar's biggest checks. Choice Scarf can be used for the surprise factor and to use Malamar as a faster late-game cleaner, though it is relatively weak and much easier to take on. A Tanga Berry can be used on the defensive RestTalk set, allowing Malamar to tank a U-turn or Signal Beam and fire off an extra hit, but this generally has less utility than the passive recovery of Leftovers.
Malamar (SM competitive strategy): Malamar is a distinctive setup sweeper that can dismantle passive teams by virtue of its unique ability Contrary in conjunction with Superpower. By utilizing Rest and Sleep Talk, it can switch into and set up against Pokemon such as Blastoise, Vaporeon, and Steelix that rely on status to shut down offensive Pokemon. However, Malamar is weak before boosting and slow, and although it has few weaknesses, its typing doesn't grant it many resistances either, offsetting some of the benefits its defensive utility provides. Additionally, strong wallbreakers such as Whimsicott, Medicham, Pangoro, and Accelgor can overwhelm it before it gets a chance to set up. Malamar also needs a lot of team support to function, and it tends to be quite inconsistent because of the ubiquity of its checks. Therefore, it only fits on teams tailored to it. Superpower acts as an offensive Bulk Up thanks to Contrary. It also hurts Dark-types such as Incineroar, Pangoro, and Sneasel for super effective damage. Knock Off is Malamar's best form of damage against Poison-types like Weezing, Garbodor, and Golbat as well as Fighting-resistant Pokemon such as Slowking, Rotom, and Xatu. Rest enables Malamar to take advantage of certain defensive Pokemon such as Slowking, Weezing, and Vaporeon by healing itself of status conditions that would normally shut down other offensive Pokemon. Sleep Talk prevents Malamar from being passive after it uses Rest, allowing it to potentially continue boosting with Superpower while bypassing the move's low PP. The following EV spread with a Careful nature gives Malamar an easier time setting up against Pokemon like Slowking and Blastoise. Contrary reverses stat drops, allowing Malamar to set up with Superpower and pressure Defog users by gaining an evasion boost. Malamar should be used late-game as a wincon once its checks and counters are gone. However, it can also spam Knock Off early-game to cripple checks so they're less effective at stopping it late-game. Malamar can be brought in against Pokemon like Slowking, Seismitoad, and Weezing and begin setting up. This is because Malamar can heal status conditions such as Scald burns and Toxic poison and continue boosting its stats with Rest and Sleep Talk so it can combat Pokemon like Blastoise, Vaporeon, and Slowking. If Malamar has sustained a lot of damage in battle, use Rest to bring it back to full health so it can consistently check Pokemon like Rotom and Delphox. Malamar fits best on teams that are built specifically around it, since it requires unique support to function consistently. Steelix is an ideal partner for Malamar, as it can threaten the Fairy-, Bug-, and Poison-types that threaten Malamar and pressure physically offensive Pokemon like Sneasel and Aerodactyl, giving Malamar an easier time setting up. In return, Malamar can check special attackers like Slowking and pressure Xatu, allowing Steelix more free rein to set Stealth Rock. Spikes setters such as Garbodor and Ferroseed also pair well with Malamar, since it pressures Defog users thanks to Contrary, which can help keep Spikes on the field. Garbodor can also blanket check Fighting- and Fairy-types as well as U-turn users such as Decidueye and Choice Scarf Togedemaru. Weezing is another Pokemon that works well with Malamar, as it can punish U-turn spam with its Rocky Helmet, and Toxic Spikes wears down checks to Malamar like Whimsicott and Comfey. Malamar can use Z-Happy Hour to give it a boost to all of its stats, potentially making it more immediately threatening. However, it is still outpaced and revenge killed by Choice Scarf users like Passimian and Togedemaru after a boost.
Barraskewda (SV competitive strategy): With one of the fastest natural Speed tiers in the metagame, Barraskewda is an excellent pick for a wallbreaker that can easily pivot out of its checks with Flip Turn, dealing decent chip damage to most Pokemon, and clean up late-game with its stronger attacks. On rain teams, Barraskewda turns into an incredibly powerful threat that is practically impossible to outspeed thanks to Swift Swim. However, Barraskewda suffers from the presence of common Water-resistant Regenerator Pokemon like Slowbro and Amoonguss that can shut it down and render its attempts at wallbreaking useless. Barraskewda is also quite frail and can be easily forced out, which can end up giving strong wallbreakers such as Basculegion-F and Hisuian Lilligant more opportunities to blow holes in Barraskewda's team. Thus, Barraskewda often relies on offensive partners to break through its checks and counters and defensive ones to restrict opposing wallbreakers from taking advantage of it. Flip Turn is one Barraskewda's most important moves, as it gives it the ability to pivot out of unfavorable matchups and deal noticeable damage at the same time, especially if rain is active. Close Combat is essential coverage to threaten common Water-resistant or -immune targets such as Cyclizar, Wo-Chien, Empoleon, and Volcanion. Aqua Jet enables Barraskewda to pick off fast sweepers such as Weak Armor Armarouge and Choice Scarf users such as Gardevoir and Krookodile after they are weakened. Crunch can serve as optional coverage to threaten some of Barraskewda's checks like Slowbro and Basculegion-F. Choice Band provides Barraskewda with much-needed offensive firepower that allows it to act as a more threatening wallbreaker. Heavy-Duty Boots can be used to keep Barraskewda from falling in range of strong priority moves like Bisharp's Sucker Punch, although the loss in power is very noticeable. A Jolly nature allows Barraskewda to outspeed key targets such as Cyclizar and Noivern. An Adamant nature trades off some of its Speed for damage and is preferred on rain teams, as Swift Swim already boosts Barraskewda's Speed to incredible levels. Tera Water boosts the power of Barraskewda's STAB moves, which is often all it needs to clean up a chipped opposition. Tera Fighting is used to power up Close Combat, enabling Barraskewda to deal more damage to Water-immune or -resistant foes like Volcanion and Suicune while also giving it useful resistances to U-turn and Dark-type moves. Tera Dark boosts the power of Crunch, which can allow Barraskewda to pick off Psychic-type Pokemon like Slowbro and Reuniclus after some chip damage and give it resistances to key priority moves like Shadow Sneak from Mimikyu and Sucker Punch from Bisharp. Barraskewda finds itself at home in offense structures that can utilize its Speed and power to create holes that can be taken advantage of by its partners. It pairs well with special wallbreakers like Gengar, Gardevoir, and Armarouge that can capitalize on Flip Turn giving them safe entry points against physically defensive Pokemon like Slowbro, Chesnaught, and Amoonguss. On rain teams, Barraskewda synergizes well with other rain exploiters like Basculegion-F and Kingdra to overwhelm Water-resistant foes like Slowbro, Empoleon, and Noivern with brute force. Other pivots can form VoltTurn cores with Barraskewda that aim to accrue chip damage on the opposing team by safely switching in on each other's defensive checks, with strong options like Magnezone, Galarian Zapdos, and Raikou synergizing particularly well thanks to their ability to threaten defensive Water-types like Slowbro and Empoleon. Barraskewda appreciates the presence of defensive partners such as Hisuian Goodra, Empoleon, and Chesnaught that can keep wallbreakers like Basculegion-F, Volcanion, and Hisuian Lilligant from dealing too much damage after forcing Barraskewda out. Choice Band Barraskewda often relies on entry hazard removal options such as Cyclizar and Talonflame to prevent strong priority moves like Bisharp's Sucker Punch and Choice Band Entei's Extreme Speed from picking it off after some entry hazard chip. Barraskewda may opt for Psychic Fangs as a coverage move instead of Aqua Jet or Crunch to be able to threaten Amoonguss and Chesnaught. Life Orb is an option over Choice Band and Heavy-Duty Boots that takes away Barraskewda's reliance on predictions while still enabling it to deal quite a bit of damage; however, the recoil damage combined with entry hazard and Rocky Helmet chip will wear it down very quickly. Mystic Water is a safer alternative on rain teams that still improves Barraskewda's ability to spam its STAB moves.
Keldeo (BW competitive strategy): Keldeo is one of the most prominent and important Pokemon in the metagame. Its offensive typing is fantastic, having great neutral coverage and letting it beat common Water-type checks like Ferrothorn and Rotom-W with its powerful Secret Sword while also beating common switch-ins to Fighting-type moves like Gliscor and Landorus-T. It can also run a Hidden Power type to get around checks like Dragonite, Jellicent, and Gastrodon. Its typing, in tandem with its decent bulk, lets it check common Pokemon on sand teams like Gliscor, Heatran, and Tyranitar as well as a lot of Pokemon found on hyper offense, like Scizor, Cloyster, and Volcarona. Its Speed tier aids in this, outspeeding prominent offensive threats like Dragonite, Garchomp, Landorus-T, Volcarona, and Thundurus-T, and Speed tying Terrakion. Keldeo can also run a wide variety of sets, including Choice Specs, Choice Scarf, All-Out Attacker, Toxic + Protect, and Calm Mind. These sets have differing counterplay and can fit on both sand and rain teams, making Keldeo a hard-to-predict Pokemon that can punish some of its conditional checks very effectively. However, Keldeo is easily revenge killed by faster Pokemon in Latios, Alakazam, and Starmie. The same is true for Choice Scarf users like Garchomp should Keldeo lack a Choice Scarf itself. It's also vulnerable to passive damage from Spikes and sandstorm if lacking Leftovers, making it easy to wear down. While its different sets can demand specific counterplay, most teams use checks that cover most sets, like Jellicent, Tentacruel, Gastrodon, Latios, and Celebi. Hidden Power Grass hits Gastrodon and Jellicent, which can take Keldeo's Water STAB even under rain. Surf is a less risky Water-type move given its higher PP and accuracy; it 2HKOes Reuniclus and Tyranitar outside of rain and Breloom, Jirachi, and Latios in rain. It also OHKOes Scizor, Magnezone, Gliscor, and offensive Heatran outside of rain and Thundurus-T, Garchomp, and Reuniclus in rain. A Timid nature is necessary for outspeeding Garchomp and Timid Volcarona and Speed tying with Terrakion and opposing Keldeo. Choice Specs Keldeo is best used on rain teams, since Hydro Pump becomes nearly impossible to handle given it can wear down and take out common stops to rain in Ferrothorn, Tyranitar, Tentacruel, and Rotom-W. Politoed is a mandatory partner to bring rain and provides a switch-in to Pokemon like Landorus-T and Gliscor. It can also cripple Keldeo checks like Tentacruel, Amoonguss, and Jellicent with status. Choice Scarf Latios can outspeed and check threats that can take advantage of Keldeo like Alakazam, Rotom-W, Breloom, and boosted Dragonite while benefitting from Keldeo breaking holes in opposing walls and threatening Latios checks in Tyranitar, Jirachi, and Ferrothorn. Tentacruel uses Rapid Spin to improve Keldeo's longevity and spreads status on Keldeo's checks in a similar manner to Politoed. Thundurus-T can sweep late-game with a Substitute + Agility set or wallbreak alongside Keldeo with a Substitute 3 attacks set, both of which take advantage of Grass-types that switch into Keldeo's attacks, like Celebi and Ferrothorn. Ferrothorn can switch into Dragon- and Psychic-types like Latios, Dragonite, and Alakazam while also setting entry hazards and removing Leftovers to let Keldeo more easily break through its checks. Jirachi can act similarly while also pivoting Keldeo in safely with U-turn. Landorus-T can set Stealth Rock, pivot with U-turn, and switch into Electric- and Ground-type moves from Thundurus-T and Garchomp. Mamoswine is able to take out Grass-types like Breloom and Celebi and Keldeo revenge killers like Dragonite, Latios, Choice Scarf Garchomp, and damaged Focus Sash Alakazam with Ice Shard. Hidden Power Ice makes Keldeo able to revenge kill Garchomp, weakened Latios and Breloom, and boosted Pokemon like Dragonite and Salamence. Surf is a reliable move and best for sweeping late-game given its higher PP and accuracy. Scald can be used instead to deter Pokemon like Tentacruel, Politoed, and Rotom-W from switching in with the threat of a burn while still OHKOing Gliscor and defensive Landorus-T outside of rain. Choice Scarf Keldeo works well on rain teams, where it can threaten to sweep with Water-type moves, answer fast threats to rain in Dragonite and Choice Scarf Garchomp, and threaten bulkier stops in Ferrothorn and Tyranitar. Politoed is a mandatory partner to bring rain and provides a switch-in to Pokemon like Landorus-T and Gliscor. It can also cripple checks like Tentacruel, Amoonguss, and Jellicent with status and use Encore to stop bulkier setup sweepers that may take advantage of Keldeo like Reuniclus, Gyarados, and Dragonite. Choice Specs and Calm Mind Latios appreciate Keldeo answering Tyranitar and can check threats like Breloom, Rotom-W, and Celebi so Keldeo can more easily clean late-game. Tentacruel uses Rapid Spin to improve Keldeo's longevity and spreads status on Keldeo's checks in a similar manner to Politoed. Thundurus-T can take advantage of Grass-types Keldeo checks like Celebi, Breloom, and Ferrothorn with a Substitute + 3 attacks set and then wallbreak for easier Keldeo sweeping. Ferrothorn can switch into Dragon- and Psychic-types like Latios, Dragonite, and Alakazam while also setting entry hazards and using Knock Off to remove Leftovers to let Keldeo more easily sweep. Jirachi can act similarly while also pivoting Keldeo in safely with U-turn. Landorus-T can set Stealth Rock, use U-turn, and switch into Electric- and Ground-type moves from Thundurus-T and Garchomp. Choice Band Dragonite can break holes, check Celebi and Breloom, and use Extreme Speed to pick off sweepers that set up on Keldeo like Dragonite, Gyarados, and Calm Mind Latios. This set also works on sand teams thanks to it improving their difficult hyper offense matchup and still working well if rain teams win the weather war. Tyranitar can Pursuit trap many of Keldeo's checks, like Latios, Reuniclus, Jellicent, and Alakazam, if holding a Chople Berry. It can also set Stealth Rock and use Thunder Wave to cripple the Pokemon that try to set up on Keldeo, like Dragonite and Gyarados. Psychic-types like Reuniclus, Latios, and Alakazam can punish Tentacruel and Amoonguss, appreciate appreciate it threatening Tyranitar and Steel-types, and provide more help against offensive teams. Focus Sash Alakazam, in particular, can handle setup sweepers like Dragonite and Gyarados through Encore or hitting them hard with Hidden Power Ice and Psychic. Heatran beats Amoonguss and Celebi, sets Stealth Rock, and spreads status. It can also run Magma Storm to trap Keldeo's checks while appreciating it checking Tyranitar and Ground-types and providing a better matchup against offensive teams. Excadrill can use Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards, which helps Keldeo's longevity immensely, and handle Jirachi and Reuniclus lacking Focus Blast. It benefits from Keldeo beating Ground- and Steel-types like Gliscor, Hippowdon, and Ferrothorn and its good matchup against rain and hyper offense teams. Ferrothorn and Skarmory can get up entry hazards to wear Keldeo's switch-ins down. Ferrothorn switches into Latios and can even use Knock Off to remove Leftovers from the Pokemon that can switch into Keldeo, while Skarmory switches into Ground-types, phases out Dragonite and Gyarados, and prevents Spikes with Taunt. Scald is chosen over Hydro Pump and Surf due to its solid power, reliability, and ability to burn common switch-ins like Latios, Tentacruel, Rotom-W, and Politoed. Hidden Power Ice beats Dragonite and hits Garchomp, Latios, and Breloom hard. Hidden Power Ghost lets Keldeo more easily make progress against teams with Jellicent while also better threatening Celebi, Reuniclus, and Starmie and maintaining a way to hit Latios. Hidden Power Bug hits the same Psychic-types while also hitting Celebi much harder. However, this leaves Keldeo walled by Jellicent as well as Hidden Power Ice targets like Dragonite. Protect allows Keldeo to rack up burn and sand damage on the opponent, scout Choice-locked moves, and, if sand isn't up, recover health with Leftovers. Leftovers lets Keldeo not get worn down by the sand often accompanying this set, making it more able to check threats like Gliscor, Heatran, and Tyranitar. This set works well on sand teams thanks to it giving a better matchup against problematic hyper offense teams, not being worn down by sand while its checks are, and being able to check opposing sand teams with its STAB combination and typing. Tyranitar can set Stealth Rock and Pursuit trap many of Keldeo's checks, like Latios, Reuniclus, Jellicent, and Alakazam, if holding a Chople Berry. Psychic-types like Reuniclus, Latios, and Alakazam can punish Tentacruel and Amoonguss and enjoy Keldeo dealing with Tyranitar and Steel-types. Choice Scarf Latios, in particular, can outspeed and check Pokemon like Breloom, Alakazam, Rotom-W, and Celebi while also being able to cripple bulky Pokemon Keldeo can't beat easily with Trick. Heatran beats Amoonguss and Celebi and can set Stealth Rock and spread status. It can also run Magma Storm to trap Keldeo's checks while appreciating Keldeo checking Tyranitar and Ground-types and providing a better matchup against offensive teams. Excadrill can use Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards, which helps Keldeo's longevity immensely, and handle Jirachi and Reuniclus lacking Focus Blast. It benefits from Keldeo beating Ground- and Steel-types like Gliscor, Hippowdon, and Ferrothorn and its good matchup against sand and hyper offense teams. Ferrothorn and Skarmory can get up entry hazards to wear Keldeo's switch-ins down. Ferrothorn switches into Latios and can even use Knock Off to remove Leftovers from the Pokemon that can switch into Keldeo, while Skarmory switches into Ground-types and prevents Spikes with Taunt. Choice Scarf users like Latios, Garchomp, and Tyranitar provide a better matchup against faster offensive threats and enjoy Keldeo potentially burning bulkier threats with Scald and wearing down bulky threats like Ferrothorn, Gliscor, and Heatran. Grass-types like Celebi and Ferrothorn are better able to answer Water-types like Jellicent, Gastrodon, opposing Keldeo, and Rotom-W while benefitting greatly from Keldeo beating Fire- and Steel-types. Toxic lets Keldeo punish and wear down many of its switch-ins like Latios, Jellicent, and Politoed. It's especially potent alongside the sandstorm that Tyranitar provides. Protect allows Keldeo to rack up Toxic and burn damage, scout Choice-locked moves, and, if sand isn't up, recover health with Leftovers. Scald lets Keldeo potentially cripple switch-ins immune to Toxic like Tentacruel and Amoonguss, and provides it with a spammable STAB attack that can still cripple other Pokemon. Secret Sword gives Keldeo a secondary STAB move and lets it punish switch-ins resistant to Scald and certain Toxic absorbers that Scald isn't effective against, like Ferrothorn and Chansey. Keep Keldeo healthy so it can check the Pokemon it's supposed to like Heatran, Gliscor, and Tyranitar. If you predict a switch to a Pokemon that hates taking a burn, but absorbs Toxic, such as Tentacruel and Amoonguss, use Scald on the switch to fish for a burn. However, if you predict your opponent to switch to a Pokemon that hates taking Toxic, use Toxic as they switch in. Try to keep sand up, as the chip damage it provides is part of what makes this set so hard to deal with in the first place. Get up entry hazards with a hazard setter when given the opportunity so you can further chip down the Pokemon that switch into Keldeo and make switching into Keldeo even harder. Don't use Protect on Pokemon that can take advantage of it, like Spikes or Stealth Rock Ferrothorn and Toxic Spikes or Substitute Tentacruel. Use Protect to scout what move a Pokemon potentially holding a Choice item will lock into as well as accumulate more residual damage alongside Toxic or burn. Tyranitar, especially the Chople Berry variant, is an excellent partner for Keldeo, since it can Pursuit trap many of Keldeo's checks and counters, like Latios, Alakazam, and Reuniclus, while getting up Sandstorm; as the chip damage it provides is a big component of what makes this set work to begin with. Tyranitar can also get Stealth Rock up to punish switch-ins further. Psychic-types like Reuniclus, Latios, and Alakazam can all punish Tentacruel and Amoonguss while appreciating the fact that Keldeo can check Tyranitar and Steel-types and the constant chip damage from sand and the status effects Keldeo can spread. Heatran beats Amoonguss, has good defensive synergy with Keldeo, and can even use Magma Storm to trap Pokemon as well as accrue additional chip in addition to status and sand. It also appreciates Keldeo checking Tyranitar and spreading status to make Pokemon faint to residual damage more quickly. Excadrill can use Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards, which helps Keldeo and its teammates come in much more easily while handling Jirachi and Reuniclus lacking Focus Blast. It benefits from Keldeo beating Ground- and Steel-types like Gliscor, Hippowdon, and Skarmory as well. Ferrothorn and Skarmory can get up Spikes, which punishes switch-ins even further on top of the residual damage that Keldeo generates. Ferrothorn switches into Latios and can even use Knock Off to remove potential Leftovers from the Pokemon that can switch into Keldeo, while Skarmory switches into Ground-types and prevents Spikes from going up on your side of the field with Taunt. Calm Mind allows Keldeo to boost its Special Attack to ridiculous levels, letting it muscle through common checks like Tentacruel and Politoed, more easily than other variants. Hydro Pump is the preferred Water-type STAB move on this set due to its greater power than Scald allowing it to net some notable KOs, specifically against Garchomp and Reuniclus. Secret Sword is a consistent Fighting-type STAB move that allows Keldeo to heavily damage specially defensive Pokemon like Chansey and Ferrothorn that can switch into Hydro Pump. For the last slot, Hidden Power Ghost or Hidden Power Dark is the preferred coverage move of choice due to the ability to hit both Jellicent and Latios, two of Keldeo's most common checks as well as Celebi. Hidden Power Dark has the added benefit of not lowering Keldeo's IVs in exchange for being less effective against fringe targets, namely Toxicroak. If Hydro Pump's poor accuracy is unappealing, Scald can be used instead as a more consistent STAB move that can cripple common answers to Keldeo like Amoonguss and Tentacruel with a burn, but the power decrease is quite noticeable. Substitute can be used over Hidden Power Ghost alongside Toxic Spikes from another teammate, as Substitute turns the tables on traditional checks like Gastrodon and Tentacruel that rely on inflicting Keldeo with status. However, the loss of coverage against Hidden Power Ghost's targets is very noticeable, specifically against Jellicent and Celebi. Alternatively, Hidden Power Grass can be run to hit Gastrodon, Rotom-W, and Jellicent at the same time, but the coverage is sorely missed against Latios and Celebi. Leftovers increases Keldeo's longevity over the course of the match, counteracting damage taken from sand and entry hazards, allowing it to check Pokemon like Tyranitar and Gliscor more consistently. Alternatively, Lum Berry can be used to bluff a Choice Scarf set, making it easier to set up Calm Mind, and provides a buffer against status effects. This set is fairly straightforward, functioning as a wallbreaker that performs particularly well against balance teams. Use rain-boosted Hydro Pump and Secret Sword to wear down the opposing team early-game. Then, once the opposing team has been adequately weakened, send in Keldeo on a Pokemon that it threatens, such as Excadrill or Gliscor, and either use Calm Mind or Substitute on the switch or scout depending on the situation and sweep if possible. It should be noted that Calm Mind and Substitute can be used in a similar fashion early-game to break the opposing team, but they aren't necessarily as efficient as attacking in some of those situations, particularly because Keldeo's HP can be essential for checking key threats like Gliscor and Tyranitar. Keldeo fits well on both rain and sand teams that want an effective wallbreaker to break down defensive Water- and Grass-types. Politoed makes for an excellent partner, as rain boosts Hydro Pump's power significantly and makes it very dangerous to switch into without an immunity. If using Substitute, Toxic Spikes Tentacruel is an amazing partner, as Toxic Spikes can wear down Pokemon like Jellicent and Gastrodon that are problematic for Keldeo to deal with otherwise. Agility Thundurus-T is an effective partner, as it appreciates Keldeo's ability to break down Grass-types like Amoonguss and Ferrothorn that would trouble it otherwise. If opting for a coverage move over Substitute, Keldeo fits particularly well on offensive sand teams due to its ability to punch holes in teams and put pressure on Latios, making Tyranitar less required to check it. Late-game cleaners like Calm Mind Reuniclus and Choice Scarf Garchomp also appreciate Keldeo's ability to punch holes in teams in general to make way for a potential sweep. Expert Belt can be used with Hydro Pump, Secret Sword, Icy Wind, and Hidden Power Grass or Hidden Power Bug to hit most of the metagame hard. However, it gets worn down in sand, it is still walled by some threats depending on what Hidden Power type it drops, and proper team support can similarly pressure Keldeo checks. Other Hidden Power types can be used on the Choice item sets, namely Hidden Power Psychic on Choice Specs to hit Tentacruel, Amoonguss, and Toxicroak and Hidden Power Electric on the Choice Scarf set to revenge kill Gyarados. However, Keldeo and its teammates can already overwhelm Poison-types, while Hidden Power Electric's utility is very situational. Aqua Jet over Protect on the Leftovers attacker set can let Keldeo finish off faster weakened targets, mainly Alakazam and boosted Volcarona, and also break Alakazam's Focus Sash for teammates so they can finish it off. Roar can be used over Protect to let Keldeo force entry hazard damage on many foes and punish the many switches it forces. However, a lot of switch-ins to Roar Keldeo, like Latios, Reuniclus, and Rotom-W, are immune to the Spikes that justify Roar's use in the first place.
Keldeo (XY competitive strategy): Keldeo is one of the most influential Pokemon in the ORAS metagame, being not only a complete powerhouse on its own, but also notorious for its ability to wear down a good majority of its checks through Scald burns, exerting an incredible amount of pressure in most games. Unlike most special attackers, Keldeo isn't walled by Chansey thanks to its signature STAB move in Secret Sword, which allows Keldeo to prey on its low Defense stat, giving it an inherent advantage versus stall. Additionally, good Speed and fantastic Special Attack, coupled with a fearsome STAB combination, ensure that it pulls its weight in just about every matchup. Keldeo also sports solid all-around bulk for an offensive Pokemon and great typing defensively, which allow it to check several threatening Pokemon such as Bisharp, Weavile, Tyranitar, Mega Scizor, and Heatran. All of these traits combined make Keldeo a very low-risk, high-reward Pokemon, capable of fulfilling a variety roles effectively on several types of teams. Due to a limited movepool, though, Keldeo will always be walled by something depending on what coverage it chooses. Some notable examples include Latios, Starmie, Amoonguss, Mega Venusaur, and Mega Latias, and for the latter two in particular, it doesn't matter what coverage Keldeo may have regardless. Furthermore, while Keldeo's Speed tier is good, it still leaves it outpaced by quite a few common Pokemon such as Latios, Starmie, Serperior, Tornadus-T, and Mega Lopunny. Scald is Keldeo's most consistent and safest move to lock into, thanks to its decent Base Power, perfect accuracy, and, more importantly, ability to potentially burn its checks, making them much easier to handle in the long term. Secret Sword has decent neutral coverage with Keldeo's Water-type STAB moves, 2HKOing Pokemon such as Serperior, Ferrothorn, and Volcanion, and is important to have to ensure Keldeo is not stopped by Chansey. Hydro Pump is used for the extra firepower on bulkier targets such as Clefable, Mew, Mega Scizor, and Jirachi. Icy Wind is used in the last slot to 2HKO Latios and Latias on the switch and subsequently knock either out the following turn due to the Speed drop. It also has important coverage on other checks such as Amoonguss, Dragonite, and Mega Altaria. Alternatively, Focus Blast, while less consistent of a STAB attack than Secret Sword, is capable of OHKOing Rotom-W after Stealth Rock, as well as 2HKOing Suicune, Gastrodon, Alomomola, and Assault Vest Tangrowth. Hidden Power Electric is an option to deal heavy damage to the likes of Gyarados, Starmie, and Azumarill, as well as maintaining coverage on other Water-types, though it's quite a bit weaker than Focus Blast for several of them. The given EV spread maximizes Keldeo's offensive potential, ensuring it hits as hard as possible while taking advantage of its good Speed tier, allowing it to outspeed key threats such as Mega Medicham, Mega Gardevoir, and offensive Garchomp. Choice Specs is used to turn Keldeo into a fearsome wallbreaker, at the expense of being able to switch between its moves. Generally, Scald is the safest move to use early-game to fish for burns on whatever checks the opponent may have. Don't hesitate to be aggressive, though, and predict incoming switch-ins with the appropriate STAB or coverage move; otherwise, Keldeo will get forced out more often. This is something that comes into play while Spikes are on Keldeo's side of the field, as repeated switches in will quickly put it in range to being knocked out by the likes of Weavile, Bisharp, and Mega Scizor. Likewise, try to avoid status as well because this causes a similar scenario. Toxic in particular means Keldeo will be likely stalled out or pivoted around until it's knocked out. Keldeo can also be brought in via double switches or VoltTurn support to keep up offensive momentum and give more chances to weaken the opposition. Once the enemy team is weakened enough, use Scald or Secret Sword to power through anything remaining. One particularly important thing to make note of is that while Keldeo is a solid check to Dark-types, you should try to avoid directly switching into them unless absolutely necessary, as Keldeo's wallbreaking prowess is cut into significantly if its Choice Specs gets Knocked Off. This is generally something to keep in mind more versus more balanced-inclined teams, where Keldeo will need the power. Dark-types, particularly those with Pursuit, pair incredibly with Keldeo. Choice Scarf Tyranitar is the most notable, because it outspeeds Latios and Starmie and traps both fairly easily. Support variants of Tyranitar also work, as they provide Stealth Rock support as well and, with a Chople Berry, can check Mega Alakazam. Weavile is a fantastic teammate as well because it handles not only Psychic-types but also common checks to Keldeo such as Serperior, Amoonguss, and Tornadus-T. Bisharp is also a fine option, though it tends to struggle a bit more versus faster threats due to its reliance on Sucker Punch. Keldeo complements them nicely by being able to check Mega Scizor, which can prove to very troublesome for all them. The latter two also appreciate teams being weakened to the point where they can clean with their high speed and powerful priority, respectively. Heatran is a valuable teammate for its ability to handle Serperior, Amoonguss, Tangrowth, Mega Venusaur, and non-Surf Latios in one slot. Additionally, it helps wear down bulky Water-types such as Slowbro, Rotom-W, and Alomomola with Toxic, making it easier for Keldeo to muscle through them, as well as provide Stealth Rock support, enabling Keldeo to achieve certain OHKOs or 2HKOs. It also gives Keldeo some extra leeway when facing Mega Scizor. In return, Keldeo helps deal with Ground-types for Heatran. Rotom-W acts as pivot towards a few of Keldeo's checks such as Tornadus, Azumarill, and Slowbro, gaining momentum off all of them with Volt Switch, thus letting Keldeo enter the field safely to get off an attack. Rotom-W also alleviates some pressure from the likes of Heatran, Bisharp, and Weavile. Latios complements Keldeo nicely, being able to handle Amoonguss, Mega Venusaur, and various passive bulky Water-types while Keldeo deals with problematic Dark-types like Tyranitar and Weavile as well as Heatran. Stored Power Mega Latias also pairs well for similar reasons, but it particularly appreciates the removal of Dark-types and the offensive pressure Keldeo applies to Clefable. Calm Mind Clefable is also a nice sweeper to pair alongside Keldeo, as it handles Latios, Electric-types, and Mega Alakazam, using all of them as setup fodder and paralyzing any potential threats while Keldeo facilitates Clefable's sweep team by eliminating key threats such as Heatran and Mega Scizor. Mega Gardevoir and Keldeo form a fearsome wallbreaking duo that dismantles many balanced teams, being able to break past the likes of Amoonguss, Slowbro, and Clefable. Electric-types such as Thundurus, Zapdos, and Mega Manectric help Keldeo better deal with bulky Water-types, barring Gastrodon, and additionally help check the likes of Talonflame and Tornadus-T, both of which outspeed and OHKO Keldeo. Tornadus-T checks many problematic Pokemon for Keldeo such as Amoonguss, Serperior, Latios, and Alakazam while being able to gain momentum versus potential Heatran, Skarmory, and Jirachi with U-turn, which Keldeo can capitalize on. Substitute shields Keldeo from status, letting it prey on passive Pokemon that cannot break it such as Suicune, Alomomola, and standard Heatran, as well as keeping it from being revenge killed by faster Pokemon. It also scouts what the opponent's initial switch-in may be. Calm Mind lets Keldeo become increasingly threatening, giving its attacks more firepower and making its Substitutes harder to break with special attacks. Scald is used over any other Water-type STAB due to its consistent power, ability to potentially burn checks, perfect accuracy, and high PP. Secret Sword complements Scald nicely through its coverage and ensures this set isn't walled by Chansey in particular. The given EV spread maximizes Keldeo's offensive potential, ensuring that it still hits for a decent amount without any Calm Mind boosts. Maximum HP EVs over Special Attack are also an option to allow Keldeo's Substitute to not be broken by Amoonguss's Giga Drain while at +2. Just note that doing so means Keldeo will miss out on a significant amount of power, notably against the likes of Garchomp, Ferrothorn, and Clefable. A Timid nature is very important, letting Keldeo outspeed key threats such as offensive Garchomp, Mega Medicham, and Mega Charizard X. Leftovers is crucial for this set to work, helping Keldeo set up more Substitutes and alleviating chip damage like Stealth Rock or sandstorm damage. This set has a better matchup versus more balanced-inclined teams, so as such it should be played a bit more conservatively in order to ensure Keldeo can outlast the opposition and sweep. Keldeo should not be brought directly into Pokemon such as Heatran, Suicune, or Alomomola, as it risks getting crippled by burn, poison, or Knock Off in the case of the last, which ruins its chances of repeatedly setting up Substitute and Calm Mind. Use Substitute sparingly, as doing so too often weakens Keldeo to the point where it no longer is able to sweep and is easily picked off. Don't attempt to set up with Calm Mind while Keldeo's checks are still healthy; instead try to burn them as they switch in with Scald, increasing Keldeo's chances of breaking past them in the later stages of the match. Another thing to note is that you can use Keldeo behind a Substitute to bait a Pokemon such as Latios or Starmie to use Psyshock and subsequently bring in a Pursuit user in to trap them. Just keep in mind that the opponent can double switch into a Pokemon that can handle the Pursuit trapper, causing a loss in momentum. Pursuit support is a must, as without it, Keldeo has a very difficult time dealing with Latios, Latias, Starmie, and Slowking. Choice Band Tyranitar is a decent option, as it has the raw power to break through Mega Latias and Slowking. Choice Scarf also works to more reliably trap Starmie, but having Tyranitar simultaneously act as a breaker benefits Keldeo more, as this set is quite passive until it gets a couple Calm Mind boost under its belt. Mega Metagross also works well, as with the right coverage, it can weaken a good majority of Keldeo's checks and, if needed, can provide Pursuit support as well. It also helps deal with Clefable, Mega Diancie, and Mega Altaria. Lures to Amoonguss and Mega Venusaur are also very important, as Keldeo has a much easier time sweeping through the team once they're heavily weakened or eliminated. Such examples include Lansat Berry Natural Gift Breloom, Stored Power Clefable, and maximum Attack Mega Diancie. Tornadus-T is also a fine option as a more direct means of threatening Keldeo's checks. Tornadus-T can also gain switch initiative with U-turn off Heatran, giving Keldeo a free opportunity to set up a Substitute depending on the variant. Heatran deals with Amoonguss, Tangrowth, Mega Venusaur, and non-Surf Latios, as well as cripple bulky Water-types that tend to switch into it such as Rotom-W, Alomomola, and Gastrodon, making it easier for Keldeo to break through the opposition. Talonflame is notable for its ability to break past Mega Venusaur, Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Clefable. It also wears down Water-type switch-ins with Will-O-Wisp. In return, Keldeo threatens various Ground-types such as Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Hippowdon. Keldeo also preys on bulky Water-types that don't mind status from Talonflame as much, most notably Suicune, which Keldeo can boost on and eventually break past with Secret Sword. Maximum Attack Mega Diancie applies pressure to Clefable and aids Keldeo in dealing with Flying-types such as Tornadus and Talonflame. Spikes help this Keldeo set a lot in the long term; Ferrothorn is the best option for this, as it deals with some problematic foes such as Azumarill, Latios, and Starmie, being able to set up Spikes easily on all of them. Keldeo in return threatens Heatran and sets up on non-Psychic Mew. Other breakers, such as Gengar, Excadrill, and Garchomp also aid Keldeo in dealing with some of its checks. Taunt is the focal point of this set, preventing some of Keldeo's checks such as Slowbro, Clefable, and Gastrodon from recovering or inflicting status. Scald is Keldeo's most useful move, allowing it to potentially spread burns. Secret Sword hits special walls such as Chansey, Heatran, and Assault Vest Tangrowth. Hydro Pump with Mystic Water provides immediate damage on targets such as Clefable, Tornadus-T, and Zapdos. Alternatively, Focus Blast with Black Belt can be used for damage on Volcanion, Gastrodon, and Rotom-W. This EV spread optimizes Keldeo's offensive capabilities, allowing it to hit as hard as possible while making the most of its great Speed tier. Mystic Water is preferred, as it empowers Keldeo's most spammable move: Scald. However, Black Belt with Focus Blast is also viable if the team needs it. Taunt Keldeo is best used as a hit-and-run attacker. Use Scald to weaken foes with potential burns and switch out. Use Taunt on a predicted recovery or status move. Be sure to avoid using Taunt on an offensive move such as Moonblast from Clefable. Once Keldeo's checks have been weakened by keeping them low with Taunt and possible entry hazards or burn, it can grab a KO or two. Keep Keldeo's health intact, as it can take on strong hits from full health from Pokemon such as Mega Tyranitar, Bisharp, Mega Gyarados, and Mega Scizor even after a boost. Taunt Keldeo thrives on teams with Spikes, as it can use Taunt to keep them on the field and prevent Defog. It is also great on offense, as it can use its Speed tier and Taunt to prevent entry hazards from going up and keep defensive pivots at lower HP for its teammates. Another reason Keldeo is good on offense is because it can provide a solid check to many threats such as Mega Gyarados and Bisharp with no defensive investment. Pokemon that provide consistent hazard removal, such as Zapdos and Excadrill, are fundamental, as Keldeo without Leftovers can be worn down quickly. Offensive Calm Mind is an option that can work, given that Keldeo benefits from an extra coverage move, but generally Choice Specs is better due to the immediate boost it gives, and the standard Calm Mind set really appreciates the extra longevity that Leftovers provides, in addition to the shield against status with Substitute. Expert Belt can be used to bluff Choice sets and catch certain counters off guard that think Keldeo is locked into a move. A RestTalk set using either Life Orb or Rocky Helmet lets Keldeo act as more reliable check to Mega Scizor, Bisharp, and Weavile due to being much harder to wear down. Endeavor can be a nice last-resort option on Keldeo's Choice Scarf set to break down an unsuspecting counter when low on HP. Endeavor can also be used in tandem with Substitute or a Focus Sash to force Keldeo down to low HP more reliably, thus taking the most advantage of it. Hidden Power Flying hits primarily Mega Venusaur and still maintains coverage on Amoonguss, but otherwise there are better coverage options. A Choice Scarf set can also be used with a Timid Nature and maximum speed EVs allowing Keldeo to outspeed +1 Mega Charizard X and Volcarona.
Keldeo (SM competitive strategy): Keldeo's solid Special Attack and Speed stat allow it to function as a solid balance breaker in the OU tier. A Water / Fighting typing in conjunction with solid bulk for an offensive Pokemon allows Keldeo to check threatening Water-, Fire-, Steel-, and Dark-type Pokemon such as Ash-Greninja, Heatran, Mega Scizor, Tyranitar, and Weavile. Keldeo's STAB Secret Sword also allows it to bypass traditional checks to special attacking Water-types such as Chansey and Ferrothorn. Unfortunately, not all shines for Keldeo, as numerous Pokemon such as Toxapex, Amoonguss, and Tapu Fini are all hard counters to most Keldeo sets. Keldeo also lacks any powerful coverage options and is forced to rely on weaker moves such as Hidden Power and Icy Wind. Calm Mind in conjunction with Substitute allows Keldeo to set up repeatedly on passive foes like Chansey and Celesteela, meaning it can easily break through bulkier teams. It also stops them from draining Keldeo's health with Toxic and Leech Seed. Keldeo can break past Toxapex with burn and hazards long-term, making Substitute a better choice overall compared to Taunt, which aims to break past Toxapex immediately by setting up on it and blowing it back with the combination of Waterium Z and Hydro Pump. Scald is Keldeo's most spammable move and is used instead of Hydro Pump for its reliability and higher PP on Substitute sets, as well as its burn chance. This allows Keldeo to annoy common cores such as Heatran \+ Tapu Bulu. Secret Sword allows Keldeo to beat Chansey and pressure Assault Vest variants of Tangrowth and Magearna while letting it beat other Pokemon that resist or are immune to Scald such as Ferrothorn, Ash-Greninja, Kyurem-B, and Gastrodon. Leftovers heals chip damage from defensive foes that have been Taunted such as Scald from Toxapex and Heavy Slam from Celesteela, allowing Keldeo to set up more Calm Mind boosts and beat bulky teams with a bit more ease. It also provides Keldeo with longevity so that it can switch into the likes of Heatran and Ash-Greninja more safely. Against more offensive teams, Keldeo can be switched into resisted attacks from foes that it forces out such as Heatran, Ash-Greninja, and Mega Tyranitar. Scald should be spammed early-game to fish for burns on the likes of Tapu Bulu, Mega Latios, and Mega Latias. Keldeo should only attempt to set up once its checks have been weakened or removed. Taunt should be used before setting up against Pokemon that can use Toxic such as Heatran, Toxapex, and Chansey, as a poison status can prevent Keldeo from beating bulky teams effectively. Keldeo can be used to beat a lot of stall teams on its own, but it should first be brought in via an aggressive switch, as most Pokemon used on this playstyle will be able to poison or burn Keldeo or Knock Off its Leftovers before it can start setting up. Keldeo also has to be wary of physically defensive Tangrowth, Unaware Clefable, and Heart Swap Magearna on these teams, as they can tank its attacks and force it out with their super effective STAB moves. Keldeo struggles to beat Mega Latios and Mega Latias, so Pursuit trappers that are able to remove them such as Tyranitar and Weavile make useful partners. Entry hazards, especially Spikes, make Keldeo's job a lot easier. Hazard setters like Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Mega Tyranitar are able to keep up hazards for most of the game. Powerful wallbreakers like Mega Mawile, Mega Medicham, and Rockium Z Garchomp form strong offensive cores with Keldeo. The latter two can also force in and weaken Fairy-types such as Clefable and Tapu Fini that give Keldeo a hard time, while the former can take advantage of bulky Grass-types that Keldeo forces in. Keldeo can act as a check to Ash-Greninja and Heatran, but it gets worn down quickly, so other checks to these Pokemon such as Toxapex and Tapu Bulu, or Garchomp and Mega Latias, respectively, are needed. Bulky Grass-types like Tapu Bulu and Tangrowth can take even a boosted attack from Keldeo and force it out, so a reliable switch-in to these Pokemon such as Tornadus-T or Mega Scizor is a useful partner. Bulky Steel-types such as Celesteela and defensive variants of Magearna are able to take on Fairy-types like Clefable and Tapu Bulu that give Keldeo a hard time. They also provide a secondary soft check to Ash-Greninja. A Calm Mind + 3 Attack set with Hyper Beam and Normalium Z allows Keldeo to not only boost its Special Attack but to blow through traditional counters such as Toxapex and Tapu Fini with a powerful Breakneck Blitz as well. This set has only one attempt to get off its Z-Move, though, and it is very weak without a boost. Choice Scarf can be used to pressure normally faster Pokemon such as Ash-Greninja and Volcarona, but is very mediocre at accomplishing anything else, because of the popularity of bulky Grass-types and Toxapex. Toxic, while undesirable to be Choice locked into, can be useful for chipping away at Pokemon such as Tangrowth and Slowbro that take little damage from any of Keldeo's attacks but despise status ailments.
Keldeo (SS competitive strategy): Keldeo's Hydro Pump is one of the most dangerous attacks in all of SS UU; any team not capable of stomaching it borders on unviable, and most teams will need to stack multiple Water-resistant Pokemon just to ensure they're safe against it. That, combined with Secret Sword to slice open Pokemon that withstand Hydro Pump like Zarude, Chansey, and Rotom-W, makes Keldeo one of the most dangerous wallbreakers in the tier. Its STAB moves give it plenty of coverage already, but Icy Wind further OHKOes Salamence and Noivern, which could otherwise handle it, and Air Slash 2HKOes every Grass-type in the tier. Keldeo can also utilize a Calm Mind set to act as a late-game cleaner on offensive teams. Keldeo's good Speed tier also lets it outspeed and threaten an OHKO on Pokemon like Zarude, Thundurus-T, and Nihilego, helping further separate it from other wallbreakers in the tier. This is further augmented by its resistance to common priority moves like Scizor's Bullet Punch and Mamoswine's Ice Shard. Keldeo does have some large issues, like generally struggling to break through Primarina, Slowking, Amoonguss, and Tangrowth without support—the latter three further exploit its Choice Specs to scout its attack through Regenerator—but its upside still makes it a top choice for a wallbreaker. Keldeo is also quite prediction reliant and can end up as setup fodder for the likes of Gyarados and Salamence if it's not careful. Finally, Keldeo's Speed tier, while good, can leave it easily revenge killed by the likes of Noivern, Crobat, Azelf, and Raikou. Hydro Pump rinses the likes of Scizor, Hippowdon, Nihilego, and Thundurus-T. Even frailer resistant Pokemon such as Zarude and opposing Keldeo can't handle it more than once. Secret Sword smashes Chansey, Hydreigon, and Celesteela while chunking Tentacruel and offensive Primarina. Scald is useful against frailer offensive teams, where the extra power from Hydro Pump is unnecessary, letting Keldeo cleave through them without risk of missing. Scald also lets it fish for burns on checks like Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Slowking, making them worse checks to Keldeo in the long run. Icy Wind destroys Salamence and Noivern, two Pokemon that could otherwise switch into Keldeo decently. It also hits Amoonguss and non-Assault Vest Tangrowth quite hard. Air Slash can KO Amoonguss from higher ranges than Icy Wind and 2HKOes Assault Vest Tangrowth with Stealth Rock up, but otherwise provides worse coverage. Keldeo's amazing wallbreaking good defensive utility let it fit on all kinds of offensive and balanced teams. Scizor is a phenomenal teammate that can switch into Grass-types that bother Keldeo like Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Zarude. It can bring Keldeo in safely on the likes of Skarmory and Rotom-H to launch a free Hydro Pump. If running Swords Dance, Scizor can also sweep late-game after Keldeo has successfully broken down the opponent's team. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Nihilego, Hippowdon, Nidoqueen, and Excadrill makes it much more difficult for Pokemon like Slowking and Tangrowth to repeatedly switch into Keldeo. The former two can also check Salamence and Noivern for Keldeo, while the latter three can serve as decent checks to Raikou. Nidoqueen can also pressure Tangrowth and Primarina quite well. Fast pivots such as Noivern and Crobat can outspeed and threaten Pokemon that scare Keldeo out such as Azelf, Raikou, and Zygarde-10%, which is much appreciated. Both can also bring Keldeo in on targets that it freely preys upon, with Noivern baiting in Hippowdon and Nihilego and Crobat baiting in Scizor and Skarmory. Electric-types like Raikou, Rotom-W, and Thundurus-T form good cores with Keldeo, as they can break down the likes of Slowking and Primarina for it. They can also check Togekiss, which can punish Keldeo locked into Secret Sword quite hard. Answers to Slowking, and thus the combination of Future Sight + Teleport, are mandatory when using Keldeo. Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Zarude can switch into Slowking safely and prevent it from using Teleport for free, breaking the FuturePort chain. Grass-types like Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Zarude can aid in Keldeo's eternal fight against bulky Water-types while also being able to check the likes of Gyarados and Primarina. Calm Mind turns Keldeo into a scary late-game cleaner that hits Thundurus-T and Amoonguss harder and becomes difficult to revenge kill with the likes of Noivern and Choice Scarf Hydreigon. Scald threatens switch-ins like Tangrowth, Amoonguss, and Slowking with a burn while providing strong neutral damage against Skarmory and Scizor. Secret Sword breaks through Chansey, Zarude, Rotom-W, and Hydreigon. Air Slash hits Grass-types like Amoonguss and Tangrowth hard and allows Keldeo to possibly flinch down checks like Salamence and Slowking. Icy Wind can be used over Air Slash to OHKO on Salamence and still hit the aforementioned Grass-types hard after a Calm Mind boost, but it is weak otherwise and keeps Keldeo from meaningfully damaging Slowking. Leftovers gives Keldeo passive recovery to have more setup chances against the likes of Scizor and Mandibuzz and is also useful for offsetting Stealth Rock and sand damage. Life Orb is an option for increased wallbreaking power, able to OHKO Chansey with Secret Sword and Amoonguss with Air Slash after Stealth Rock with a boost, but causes Keldeo to get worn down quickly. Life Orb is solely used on hyper offense teams, as longevity is less needed. Calm Mind Keldeo best fits on bulky offense and balance teams as a strong late-game sweeper and is also valued on hyper offense teams for its good matchup against opposing offense. Entry hazard support is essential in softening up bulky Grass-types for Keldeo; Hippowdon, Skarmory, and Nidoqueen make excellent teammates as a result. Hippowdon also can bait Tangrowth and Slowking into taking Toxic and wear them down with sand damage. Meanwhile, Nidoqueen directly pressures Primarina for Keldeo. Pivots like Thundurus-T and Choice Scarf Diggersby pressure Slowking and Primarina throughout a game to keep them from switching into Keldeo without any care. They also wear down Amoonguss and Tangrowth with their repeated pivoting moves. Teammates such as Crobat, Noivern, and the aforementioned Diggersby can keep faster threats to Keldeo like Azelf and Starmie in line. Swords Dance Scizor, particularly Safety Goggles variants, takes advantage of Amoonguss and Tangrowth incredibly well, and can lure in and remove Salamence's item with Knock Off, allowing Keldeo to overwhelm it more easily with Air Slash. On hyper offense teams, Autotomize Celesteela and Nasty Plot Azelf take on Tangrowth and Amoonguss and overwhelm Primarina and Slowking for Keldeo, as they will often be the opposing team's main line of defense against these threats. Keldeo can run a pivot set with Leftovers and a moveset consisting of Scald, Secret Sword, Toxic, and Flip Turn. This makes it much better at wearing down Pokemon like Salamence, Slowking, Primarina, and Tangrowth, and it lets Keldeo pivot out on the likes of Amoonguss. Its damage output is mediocre, though, and Keldeo's Speed tier isn't amazingly suited to being a team's fast Pokemon that keeps other fast Pokemon in check, so it must be paired with a teammate like Noivern or Choice Scarf Diggersby. Substitute can be used over a coverage move on Keldeo's Calm Mind set to set up on threats like Amoonguss, but the presence of Assault Vest Tangrowth as well as the additional value Air Slash provides makes it not worth it most of the time. Choice Scarf sets with Flip Turn are a fine option if the ability to outspeed extremely fast Pokemon like boosted Salamence and Choice Scarf Zarude is absolutely necessary for a team to function, but Keldeo's unboosted damage output is somewhat disappointing and Flip Turn hits like a wet noodle off Keldeo's meager Attack stat, leaving it generally outclassed by other fast pivots like Noivern and Choice Scarf Hydreigon.
Arctozolt (SV competitive strategy): A Naughty nature lets Arctozolt OHKO Physically Defensive Toxapex with Bolt Beak after Stealth Rock damage and should be in tandem with Freeze-Dry to fully threaten Water teams as it deals with Swampert. On the other hand, a Naive nature lets Arctozolt outspeed Zeraora and Choice Scarf Excadrill under Snow, making Stomping Tantrum a better choice if using the aforementioned nature.
Meltan (SS competitive strategy): Meltan has terrible stats across the board and an extremely lackluster movepool. While Meltan can trap Klinklang and remove it, it fails at doing anything else, meaning it is not worth using over any other Klinklang counter such as Palossand, Qwilfish, and Rapidash. These Pokemon can be useful even when the opponent doesn't have Klinklang, and they fulfill more roles. This set attempts to trap Klinklang with Magnet Pull and PP stall it with Acid Armor. However, Meltan can't do anything else than that and is completely useless if the opponent doesn't have Klinklang. There are better Klinklang checks such as Alolan Persian and Stunfisk that can also perform other roles.
Druddigon (BW competitive strategy): common Pokemon, such as Aggron, Kabutops, and Entei, hard without having to Aggron, Kabutops, and Omastar. Sucker Punch offers Druddigon a useful still outpace Pokemon such as Poliwrath, Clefable, and Lanturn should it Earthquake for the ability to hit Ferroseed, Durant, and Escavalier
Druddigon (XY competitive strategy): Druddigon boasts an incredible Attack stat with above average defenses, which can make it effective as either an offensive or defensive Pokemon. Its wide movepool provides coverage against threats such as Fairy-types, but it needs support to make effective use of this. Furthermore, access to support moves such as Stealth Rock, Glare, and Roar lets it stand out from the crowd. However, a low Speed stat with only Sucker Punch to compensate makes it vulnerable to being revenge killed easily. It also doesn't have the best matchup versus common entry hazard removers such as Flygon. A lack of reliable recovery hinders Druddigon's longevity. The presence of Fairy-types such as Granbull and Diancie can also hinder Druddigon's ability to freely use its STAB moves. With offensive Ice-types like Sneasel, Mega Glalie, and Abomasnow being common, it can be hard to use Druddigon without being pressured easily. Glare is the best status move Druddigon receives, paralyzing opposing Pokemon to cut their Speed and allowing Druddigon and other teammates to have a better chance against them during the battle. It also has the perk of paralyzing Ground-types. Stealth Rock allows Druddigon to cripple the opposing team's Pokemon by making them take chip damage and breaking potential Focus Sashes and Sturdy. Dragon Tail is Druddigon's main STAB move, which inflicts decent damage and phazes the foe, potentially racking up good damage if coupled with entry hazards. Alternatively, if Dragon Tail's low damage and negative priority annoy you, Dragon Claw can be used. Fire Punch is used to hit Steel-types that would otherwise tank Dragon Tail such as Escavalier and Registeel. Maximum HP and Defense with an Impish nature allows Druddigon to tank physical hits rather well and spread chip damage via Rough Skin more effectively. Maximum Defense notably avoids an OHKO from Hitmonlee, Medicham, and +2 Fletchinder after Stealth Rock damage. Alternatively, you can use a specially defensive spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD, which allows Druddigon to take special attacks better and take advantage of its Fire and Electric resistances against Pokemon like Delphox and Jolteon. Rocky Helmet is useful to get more chip damage against physical attackers when coupled with Rough Skin. Leftovers gives Druddigon passive recovery and can work better with a specially defensive spread. Rough Skin is the choice of ability to allow Druddigon to get off some useful chip damage thanks to its defensive EV spread. Use Druddigon as a lead to get Stealth Rock up early; if against a threatening Pokemon, you may have to switch multiple times to get it up. Also be cautious when leading, as the opponent may predict you and possibly force a switch out. Always switch out if Druddigon is in KO range against Fairy- or Ice-type Pokemon. Spread paralysis to slow down the opposing Pokemon while also phazing them out with Dragon Tail. Keep Druddigon healthy to have a good switch-in to physical attackers, primarily to resisted attacks. Don't play recklessly with this set, but identity certain Pokemon that may be threatening and use that knowledge to your advantage with Glare. Druddigon should be preserved until the opposing entry hazard remover has been taken care of, so it can freely set up Stealth Rock. Spikes support is always useful to further cripple the opponent's team and can be effective with Dragon Tail, so Pokemon such as Mega Glalie, Qwilfish, Accelgor, and Garbodor are always recommended. This set is very helpful on bulky offensive and balanced teams, as these teams carry slow powerhouses and the support from paralysis is very useful for them. Wish and cleric support is always useful to help out with Druddigon's lack of recovery and remove status; Alomomola, Diancie, and Aromatisse are good options. Hard-hitting Pokemon are recommended to take advantage of the paralysis Druddigon spreads over the opposing team; Pokemon such as Hoopa, Hitmonlee, Escavalier, and Rhyperior are good examples. Pokemon that can handle Fairy-types are very useful to prevent them from threatening Druddigon; some examples are Venusaur, Magneton, and Escavalier. Hoopa is a great spinblocker, preventing Pokemon such as Blastoise and Hitmontop from removing your entry hazards. Outrage or Dragon Claw is Druddigon's main STAB move; Outrage is used for more power but unfortunately comes with a confusion effect, and the lock-in can make Druddigon easier to handle for the opponent, while Dragon Claw has no drawbacks but is much weaker. Sucker Punch is used for priority and can help revenge kill fast, weakened Pokemon as well as hit Psychic-types like Delphox and Hoopa super effectively. Fire Punch is used as coverage against Steel-types that can wall Druddigon like Registeel and Escavalier. Gunk Shot is used for coverage against Fairy-types like Aromatisse and Granbull; it can also hit Grass-type Pokemon like Virizion harder. You can use Iron Tail instead, which still handles Fairy-types, notably OHKOing Diancie, but can also 2HKO Rhyperior. 252 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature maximize Druddigon's Attack stat and allow it to hit as hard as possible. 32 Speed EVs are used to outspeed base 50 Speed Pokemon like Registeel and Diancie as well as maximum Speed Mega Camerupt. The rest of the EVs are dumped in HP to give Druddigon some bulk. Life Orb is used to boost Druddigon's already hard-hitting attacks, and Druddigon doesn't incur any recoil on its coverage moves thanks to Sheer Force. Sheer Force is used to give Druddigon's attacks some more power at the cost of their side effects. Thanks to the power boosts from Sheer Force and Life Orb, Druddigon should be used as a wallbreaker that can scare the opponent and limit their choice of plays. Use certain situations to your advantage to allow Druddigon to come into the battlefield; some of those are Choice-locked Pokemon, safe switches into certain Pokemon like Blastoise, and aggressive double switches if you have to. Use Sucker Punch against weakened Pokemon to potentially OHKO them and against faster Pokemon to get off some damage. Druddigon should avoid Ice-type Pokemon, as the most used ones are able to OHKO or significantly damage it. Do not lock Druddigon into Outrage early-game, as it can be easily revenge killed. Druddigon should be very cautious against Scald users such as Slowking and Seismitoad, as a potential burn severely cuts Druddigon's Attack stat, though it may be fine if they are in KO range. Thanks to Druddigon's bulk, it is able to tank a Fairy-type attack from defensive Fairy-type Pokemon and can strike back with a Gunk Shot or Iron Tail. Druddigon is best paired up with Escavalier, which resists all of its weaknesses in Ice, Dragon, and Fairy, while Druddigon resists Escavalier's lone weakness to Fire. Escavalier can handle Fairy-types and use Knock Off to cripple bulky walls such as Alomomola, Jellicent, and Eviolite users, which allows Druddigon to threaten them; this creates good defensive and offensive synergy between these two. Wish users such as Alomomola and Aromatisse are great for supporting Druddigon due to its lack of recovery. Great Trick Room users such as Diancie and Slowking can allow Druddigon to outspeed and pressure most faster Pokemon. Entry hazard removers such as Blastoise and Flygon can allow Druddigon to safely switch in without having to take damage. Blastoise can lure in Grass- and Electric-types, which can allow Druddigon to come in and deal with them. Volt Switch and U-turn users are good for allowing Druddigon to come in safely and possibly check or counter the opposing foe. Sweepers really appreciate Druddigon's wallbreaking potential for weakening bulkier Pokemon that would otherwise be troublesome, so Virizion, Sneasel, Aerodactyl, and Jolteon are good partners. Flygon can make a great double Dragon core, as Flygon can keep up momentum with U-turn and send Druddigon onto the battle field, while Druddigon can take care of Fairy- and Grass-types. Druddigon is able to use many alternative coverage moves. On the Life Orb set, Aqua Tail can be used to handle Rhyperior and Mega Camerupt more effectively. Crunch provides more coverage against Psychic- and Ghost-types, but it comes at the cost of losing Sucker Punch's priority. Thunder Punch is a more effective way of dealing with bulky Water-types such as Alomomola and Blastoise as well as certain Eviolite users, mainly Golbat and Togetic. Although it comes at the cost of coverage, Substitute can be used on Life Orb and support sets to offer protection from status and damage, which can give Druddigon a free opportunity to attack. If your team already has a Stealth Rock setter, Druddigon's support set can run RestTalk to make up for its lack of recovery. However, Sleep Talk doesn't need to be run if your team has a cleric such as Aromatisse or Diancie.
Druddigon (SM competitive strategy): Druddigon is a special utility Pokemon due its ability to get up Stealth Rock up versus Xatu because of Mold Breaker. Its mono-Dragon typing allows it to resist Water-, Electric-, Grass-, and Fire-type moves, which, when combined with its great bulk, can help it take care of the bigger threats in the tier, such as Magmortar, Incineroar, and Heliolisk. While slow, Druddigon is faster than a number of other Stealth Rock setters such as Steelix and can use Taunt on them to shut them down. Druddigon also benefits from a massive Attack stat, letting it run a more offensive set to function as both a utility Pokemon and a solid wallbreaker. However, Druddigon's poor Speed tier, which means it is outrun by a lot of the tier, along with lack of reliable recovery makes it easy to wear down and takes a big toll out of Druddigon, especially when it's not running Leftovers. This mediocre longevity also means that it is forced to rely on teammates like Vaporeon and Audino to remain healthy with Wish support. Even Druddigon's mono-Dragon typing leaves it susceptible to frequent Ice- and Fairy-type moves, which allows top-tier threats such as Sneasel, Mega Glalie, Comfey, and Whimsicott to easily wear it down or KO it. Stealth Rock is the basic utility Druddigon needs to wear down opposing Pokemon that come in, and it wears down Ice-types effectively, which Druddigon has a weakness to. Mold Breaker also allows Druddigon to set it up against Xatu, which makes up much of its niche. Toxic is run to wear down Pokemon and rack up more damage over time, which helps in the long run against Pokemon such as Piloswine, Comfey, and Xatu. Glare is able to incapacitate fast Pokemon such as Sneasel and Sceptile and Choice Scarf users such as Delphox and Passimian without fail. Earthquake is mainly for Steel-types such as Silvally-Steel, allowing Druddigon to punish its Defog, and Electric-types, which cannot be paralyzed by Glare. Earthquake is also useful due to Mold Breaker allowing it to hit Rotom and Vikavolt and its ability to weaken most Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon and Steelix. Protect with Leftovers makes Druddigon a much more sustainable Pokemon, allowing to get recovery it may need in the long run. It also allows Druddigon to scout Choice item users, such as Passimian and Heliolisk. Dragon Tail is used to phaze other Pokemon to rack up damage with Stealth Rock. This move also forces out potential setup Pokemon such as Nasty Plot Slowking and Swords Dance Incineroar, which makes Druddigon less passive then other entry hazard setters. It can also run Taunt over Glare to prevent opposing Stealth Rock from being set up by Pokemon such as Steelix or setup from slower Pokemon like Slowking, but this doesn't end up always being reliable due to Druddigon's lack of Speed. Maximum HP and Special Defense EVs with a Careful nature let Druddigon check Pokemon such as Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Magmortar effectively. Alternatively, Maximum HP and Defense EVs with an Impish nature allow Druddigon to maximize its physical bulk to better take on physical attackers such as Passimian, Incineroar, and Cinccino. Leftovers gives Druddigon the longevity it needs, since it doesn't have reliable recovery, giving several opportunities to switch into Pokemon such as Delphox, Magmortar, and Sceptile. Rocky Helmet is able to rack up chip damage onto Pokemon like Incineroar, Passimian, and potential spinners. Mold Breaker is to ensure that Druddigon can set up Stealth Rock against Xatu and potentially cripple it. Druddigon should be used early-game to set up Stealth Rock as its primary goal. Stealth Rock can always be set up quickly unless a Taunt user is on the field, as Druddigon is unbothered by Xatu's Magic Bounce. It's in your best interest to start spreading status to fast, frail Pokemon, such as Comfey and Sceptile, after getting the chance of getting Stealth Rock up to get any necessary chip needed for future turns. It is also used to check Pokemon it answers by virtue of its defensive typing and special attackers such as Slowking, Delphox, and defensive Incineroar, and it can take advantage of these Pokemon to set up Stealth Rock. Dragon Tail prevents setup from threats such as Swords Dance Incineroar, Calm Mind Delphox, and Swords Dance Decidueye while also being able to get important chip damage on them. This can also be used to get chip damage on wallbreakers such as Alolan Exeggutor switching in on a predicted Stealth Rock. Taunt gives Druddigon the option to shut down other slower Stealth Rock such as Steelix or Palossand, while also being able to get up its own Stealth Rock and potentially crippling it with status. Druddigon can also pressure entry hazard removers such as Silvally-Steel and Rotom and even cripple them with Glare or Toxic. It can also pressure spinners with chip damage from Rocky Helmet and status and really force the opponent to think twice before using Rapid Spin. Scald burns can basically render Druddigon useless, so it's important to be wary of that. Generally, you want to have something to cover Druddigon's weaknesses. Fire-types like Incineroar, Delphox, and Magmortar cover all of Druddigon's relevant weaknesses, and in return Druddigon even covers their weakness to Water-type moves. Another option would be pairing Druddigon with a cleric such as Vaporeon, with the two of them covering each other's weaknesses, or Mega Audino, which is a much bulkier Pokemon with Regenerator before it Mega Evolves, and both of these Pokemon also have access to Heal Bell, which gets rid of being weakened by status and getting worn down so easily. Adding a Spikes setter such as Garbodor or Accelgor can be another option, since Xatu easily gets worn down by Druddigon, and Spikes also synergize with Dragon Tail well. You can also pair Druddigon with a slow wallbreaker, since it is able to cripple faster Pokemon with Glare, with Pokemon such as Dhelmise, Guzzlord, and even Clawitzer having a nice pairing with this Pokemon. Silvally-Steel has great synergy with Druddigon, as they both cover each other's weaknesses while Silvally-Steel also has a pivot option to get Druddigon back in. Reliable Fairy-type checks such as Garbodor and Golbat are nice options, as they serve as a safe switch-in most of the time. Setup sweepers and breakers such as Mismagius, Sceptile, and Delphox also appreciate Stealth Rock always being on the field, weakening foes like Incineroar and Vaporeon, as well as other defensive answers to breakers. Mold Breaker Stealth Rock bypasses Xatu's Magic Bounce. Devastating Drake has great power and is Druddigon's main tool for OHKOing Pokemon such as Assault Vest Slowking, Dhelmise, Vikavolt, and specially defensive Garbodor; it also still deals severe damage to bulkier Pokemon such as Blastoise and Golbat. Outrage is still plenty strong in its own right, though it should be used sparingly after expending the Z-Move. Earthquake provides perfect neutral coverage alongside Outrage as well as a low commitment attack to throw out. It also smacks entry hazard setters such as Steelix, Rhydon, and Regirock for solid damage and hits other targets such as Rotom, Incineroar, and Weezing. Taunt can stop Stealth Rock from opposing Rhydon, Steelix, Regirock, and Palossand as well as status inflicting, boosting, or healing attempts from walls such as Weezing, Scrafty, and Vaporeon. Glare generally cripples most Pokemon and can slow down and potentially trip up faster entry hazard removers such as Golbat, Blastoise, and Whimsicott with full paralysis. Maximum Attack investment with an Adamant nature maximizes power, allowing Devastating Drake to OHKO neutral targets like Assault Vest Slowking, Dhelmise, Vikavolt, and specially defensive Garbodor. Maximum Speed EVs let Druddigon Speed tie with opposing offensive Druddigon while outrunning the likes of Alolan Exeggutor, Weezing, bulky Garbodor, and Rhydon. Mold Breaker allows Druddigon to set up Stealth Rock against Xatu and lets Earthquake hit Levitate users. Druddigon is a powerful Stealth Rock user that is also difficult to OHKO, providing a strong immediate offensive advantage. Use Devastating Drake to OHKO bulky Pokemon such as Slowking, Dhelmise, and Vikavolt or heavily dent the likes of Vaporeon, Blastoise, Scrafty, and Golbat. It could also just be used to wipe out nearly any opposing offensive Pokemon, as very few can hope to survive this attack. Taunt and Glare are primarily used in situations involving entry hazards, preventing opposing Stealth Rock from being set up or your own Stealth Rock from being cleared, though they can be used for other purposes, such as crippling walls or offensive Pokemon. Longevity is less of a priority; Druddigon should focus on setting up Stealth Rock and then wallbreaking or crippling as much as it can, though it can occasionally put its bulk and resistances to use by checking certain Pokemon and threatening them with Devastating Drake, a super effective Earthquake, or Glare. Dragonium Z Druddigon makes for a natural fit on offensive teams due to the powerful offensive momentum it generates while also offering decent bulk to fall back on if need be. Partners that can check or revenge kill Pokemon that threaten Druddigon are particularly appealing teammates. Incineroar can check Sneasel, Mega Glalie, and Comfey, while its Dark typing allows it to prevent Defog from Whimsicott. However, keep in mind Incineroar would not have access to a Z-Move to aid its wallbreaking. Sigilyph, Vivillon, and Comfey can take out powerful Fighting-types such as Medicham and Pangoro, which are some of the few Pokemon able to OHKO Druddigon with a neutral hit. Ghost-types such as Rotom and Mismagius can spinblock to preserve Druddigon's Stealth Rock while also being able to handle Golbat, Blastoise, and Dhelmise. Druddigon is unlikely to beat bulkier Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon, Steelix, and Regirock one-on-one, though it could Taunt them to give them less leeway. Pokemon that can take out those Stealth Rock users, such as Sceptile, Samurott, Pangoro, Alolan Exeggutor, and Dhelmise, can help to pick up the slack. Slower wallbreakers such as Incineroar, Pangoro, Medicham, and Samurott appreciate Glare support, whereas offensive Pokemon such as Heliolisk, Choice Scarf Passimian, Sceptile, and Mega Glalie can take advantage of Druddigon's wallbreaking capabilities opening up sweeping opportunities for them. Rough Skin paired with Rocky Helmet allows Druddigon to heavily chip physical Pokemon such as Passimian and Incineroar. Generally, though, this makes Druddigon more vulnerable to Xatu, thus losing its niche. Roseli Berry can also be run to take a Fairy-type attack as well as hit something hard with Iron Head or Gunk Shot in return, but this is for the most part a waste of a moveslot and item slot for a one-time attack.
Druddigon (SS competitive strategy): Druddigon makes an effective pivot with its Dragon typing and ability in Rough Skin, which is used in conjunction with Rocky Helmet to punish U-turn and Flip Turn users like Togedemaru and Basculin. Heavy Defense investment lets it switch into notable Pokemon such as Centiskorch and Togedemaru. Druddigon also has a great supportive movepool with access to Stealth Rock and Glare. However, Druddigon is weak to common Fairy- and Ice-type attacks from Pokemon like Ribombee and Froslass, as well as lacking any reliable recovery options. Dragon Tail can be used to phaze Pokemon and rack up damage with Stealth Rock against Defoggers such as Charizard or setup sweepers such as Calm Mind Uxie. Otherwise, Dragon Claw makes a decent alternative. Glare is used to spread paralysis, mainly targeting Whimsicott and Ribombee that may try to switch into Druddigon. Earthquake provides good coverage with Dragon Tail, hitting Steel-types like Aggron and Togedemaru super effectively. Endure can be used as a way to accumulate an extra turn of Rocky Helmet and Rough Skin damage onto a foe, which can help check opposing Pokemon such as Triple Axel Sneasel in a pinch. Leftovers can be used as an alternative to Rocky Helmet to provide Druddigon with more longevity. Silvally-Fairy and other fast wallbreakers pair well with Druddigon, as Druddigon can punish fast Pokemon like Togedemaru that attempt to revenge kill them. Aggron and Charizard help to cover Fairy-types like Aromatisse and Ribombee that attempt to take advantage of Druddigon. Togedemaru is another Fairy-resistant Pokemon that can provide Wish support, which helps Druddigon stay healthy throughout a game.
Scolipede (BW competitive strategy): that allows it to outspeed Pokemon such as Mew, Roserade, and Shaymin. as Tornadus, Zapdos, and Crobat hard, although one should note that more easily. Dark-types such as Houndoom, Krookodile, and Weavile all
Scolipede (XY competitive strategy): Scolipede secures a niche in Ubers by virtue of its support movepool and ability; Speed Boost allows it to outspeed every unboosted threat in Ubers at +1. Scolipede has a great movepool for a lead, with access to Spikes and Toxic Spikes. Pin Missile allows Scolipede to potentially OHKO Deoxys-S and Darkrai, and Endeavor allows it to cripple opposing leads. While Scolipede can be highly effective in some matchups, Mega Diancie and Mega Sableye completely shut it down by virtue of Magic Bounce, and Taunt users can prevent it from setting up entry hazards. Pin Missile is used over Megahorn in order to break Focus Sashes on Deoxys-S, Deoxys-A, and Darkrai. Toxic Spikes is usually preferred over Spikes, as other Spikes users such as Klefki do this better, though both can be run on the same set. Protect allows Scolipede to gain a free Speed boost so that it can outspeed Darkrai, Deoxys-S, and Deoxys-A while avoiding a Dark Void or Taunt. Earthquake can be used to 2HKO Mega Diancie, Mega Gengar, and Klefki, and to deal a decent amount of damage to Primal Groudon. Toxic cripples Defog users such as Giratina-O, support Arceus formes, Latios, and Latias, as well as bulky Pokemon that give hyper offense teams trouble, such as Tyranitar and Ho-Oh. Maximum Attack allows Scolipede to OHKO Deoxys-S with Pin Missile as long as it hits three times and Darkrai if it hits four times. Maximum Speed investment is used so that Scolipede can outspeed Latios and Latias. Alternatively, a spread of 56 HP / 252 Atk / 200 Spe with a Jolly nature allows Scolipede to outspeed Adamant maximum Speed Mega Salamence while adding a little bit of extra bulk. Scolipede should only be used on hyper offense teams, as it lacks the defensive utility necessary for other archetypes. Scolipede should be used as a lead unless your opponent has an anti-lead such as Mega Gengar, Mega Sableye, Mega Diancie, or Giratina-O, in which case you should lead with another Pokemon such as Primal Kyogre or Xerneas. If your opponent leads with Darkrai, using Protect turn one is recommended to block Dark Void and allow Scolipede to outspeed Darkrai next turn. If your opponent leads with Deoxys-S or Deoxys-A, using Pin Missile on the first turn limits their chances to set up entry hazards. When Scolipede has been brought down to its Focus Sash, using Endeavor brings the opponent's Pokemon down to 1 HP, allowing other team members to easily revenge kill it. Scolipede is only viable on hyper offense teams, so Pokemon commonly found on hyper offense such as Mega Salamence, Xerneas, and Arceus work well. Darkrai in particular shuts down Defog users via Dark Void and Taunt, making it difficult to remove Scolipede's entry hazards, but Darkrai lacks offensive synergy, as it is checked by Mega Sableye and Mega Diancie. Mewtwo, along with its Mega Evolutions, provides a fast Taunt and enjoys having foes worn down with poison damage, but Mewtwo lacks defensive synergy with Scolipede. Pokemon such as Primal Kyogre and Xerneas pair well with Scolipede, as they can check Mega Diancie and Mega Sableye. Faster Pokemon such as Mega Mewtwo Y are able to outspeed and OHKO Mega Gengar, but they lack the ability to trap it. Shaymin-S as well as Substitute users such as Xerneas appreciate opposing Pokemon being worn down by poison. Mixed Xerneas can beat Mega Sableye, as well as Ho-Oh and Blissey with Rock Slide and Close Combat, respectively. If Protect isn't used, a Sleep Talk user such as Choice Scarf Zekrom pairs nicely with Scolipede to beat Darkrai leads. Baton Pass can be used to gain momentum against Mega Sableye and Mega Diancie switch-ins, but fitting it on a moveset is difficult. Passing a Speed boost to Pokemon such as Primal Groudon and Xerneas allows them to easily beat Mega Sableye and Mega Diancie. Poison Jab allows Scolipede to 2HKO offensive Xerneas, while a single Speed boost allows Scolipede to outspeed +2 Xerneas. Poison Jab also has a 30% chance to poison the foe, which cripples Mega Sableye and Mega Diancie. Rock Slide can deal heavy damage to Ho-Oh if it tries to switch in, but the move fails to OHKO. Superpower allows Scolipede to OHKO Tyranitar, but it has little to no utility outside of that. Defensive Yveltal and Greninja can Taunt Scolipede, limiting it to one layer of entry hazards. Foul Play from defensive Yveltal can 2HKO Scolipede, and Yveltal can proceed to KO with Sucker Punch if Scolipede uses Endeavor. Offensive Yveltal can bring Scolipede down to 1 HP and KO Scolipede if it tries to attack.
Scolipede (SM competitive strategy): Scolipede can fulfill the role of a cleaner and wallbreaker in one slot due to its access to Speed Boost and Swords Dance to threaten offensive and defensive teams. Functioning in these roles is enabled by decent Attack, good Speed, and a sufficient movepool, so Scolipede can utilize strong attacks and coverage moves such as Megahorn, Earthquake, and Aqua Tail. However, Scolipede's below average defenses mean Scolipede will require entry hazard removal to set up properly. Even if Scolipede manages to set up, it will often be in range of priority moves from Ash-Greninja, Mega Scizor, and Mega Mawile, for example, meaning its capabilities cannot be fully unleashed in practice. With Swords Dance, Scolipede is able to punch holes into defensive teams or sweep. Megahorn is Scolipede's strongest attack; at +2, it is capable of OHKOing Pokemon such as Garchomp and Tapu Bulu. Aqua Tail pairs well with Megahorn, netting massive damage against Celesteela, Zapdos, and Mega Scizor when powered up by Waterium Z. Hydro Vortex, after Scolipede uses Swords Dance, also OHKOes defensive Landorus-T, one of the most common Pokemon in the tier. Earthquake rounds off Scolipede's coverage, defeating Heatran, Mega Mawile, and, more importantly, Toxapex. Spikes can be used in this slot as well to pressure switch-ins, but it is best used when Scolipede is on hyper offense teams because it will usually want to maximize its coverage. Waterium Z grants Scolipede a 175-Base Power Hydro Vortex so Scolipede can break defensive Landorus-T and take out a weakened Mega Scizor. Life Orb seems like an appealing option, but the recoil and lack of power makes it inferior. A Jolly nature and maximum Speed investment are required for Scolipede to outpace the faster Choice Scarf users in the tier such as Keldeo and Latios after a Speed Boost. The remaining EVs are invested in Attack so Scolipede can hit as hard as possible. Scolipede's typing allows it to get a free Swords Dance against Tapu Fini and most Grass-types such as Tapu Bulu and Tangrowth, so utilize these opportunities right away. Otherwise, Scolipede will be forced to take damage in order to set up. If this is the case, prioritize removing entry hazards so Scolipede can set up in front of Mega Scizor and defensive Landorus-T and stay out of the KO range of most priority. If Scolipede cannot sweep, recklessly use Swords Dance and do massive damage to a check or counter shared by a teammate with a boosted Hydro Vortex. If Spikes is used on Scolipede, set up hazards and play aggressively to weaken defensive hazard removers such as Zapdos, Skarmory, and Mega Scizor with Hydro Vortex. Stealth Rock will cause Scolipede issues, so an entry hazard remover is recommended. Mew, Mega Scizor, Latios, and Tapu Fini are solid teammates, especially since Scolipede can preserve their health by absorbing Toxic Spikes. Scolipede will have limited setup opportunities outside of against bulky Grass-types and the aforementioned Tapu Fini, so VoltTurn users that can get Scolipede free switches on these Pokemon are nice. Tapu Koko, Ash-Greninja, and Mega Manectric are prime teammates. Scolipede can support other physical sweepers because it breaks or wears down a lot of common answers to physical attackers such as Landorus-T. Swords Dance Mega Mawile and Dragon Dance Mega Charizard X are solid teammates because of this. Greninja, while a special attacker, is a fine team option, as Scolipede forces in and wears down Celesteela and Ferrothorn, common checks to Ash-Greninja, and gives Protean Greninja the option to forego Hidden Power Fire. Finally, Scolipede can be used on rain teams, as the rain boost to Hydro Vortex and +2 Attack creates a lot of OHKOes on Pokemon such as Zapdos, Celesteela, and Clefable. Savage Spin-Out is extremely powerful after a Swords Dance boost, OHKOing Pokemon such as Ferrothorn and even some resistant to the move such as Keldeo after Stealth Rock. However, the prevalence of Landorus-T and Celesteela make Hydro Vortex superior. Scolipede can be used as a suicide lead, stacking Spikes and Toxic Spikes and taking a Pokemon down with it using Endeavor.
Scolipede (SS competitive strategy): Scolipede is able to get Spikes up easily for hyper offense teams with its Speed and can keep them up with its coverage and Endeavor. Poison Jab notably hits Hatterene hard while also hitting neutral targets like Azelf, Hydreigon, and Thundurus-T for solid damage. Earthquake dissuades Cobalion from setting up on Scolipede and nails Rapid Spin users like Tentacruel and Excadrill. Endeavor is useful against bulkier Pokemon such as Chansey, as well as Defog users like Salamence. Speed Boost stops lead Excadrill from spinning away Spikes and outspeeding Scolipede afterwards. It also lets Scolipede set multiple layers of Spikes against Choice Scarf users like Diggersby and Hydreigon. Focus Sash ensures Scolipede can get at least one layer of Spikes and can bring foes down to low HP with Endeavor. Scolipede is only used on hyper offense and pairs nicely with Stealth Rock setters like Taunt Krookodile and Meteor Beam Necrozma, forming a double entry hazard-stacking core to enable sweepers like Gyarados and Salamence. Krookodile and Necrozma can pressure entry hazard removers like Salamence and Dhelmise better than Scolipede can. Sweepers like Salamence, Scizor, and Azelf all appreciate entry hazards to muscle past foes such as Primarina and Chansey. While Scolipede can keep up some offensive pressure, it is still setup bait for Pokemon like Scizor, Celesteela, and Salamence, making checks to them such as Gyarados, Nihilego, and Azumarill respectively solid partners. Taunt Gyarados, Polteageist, and Thundurus-T can all set up on Skarmory, who may try to set up Spikes against Scolipede since it cannot threaten it.
Grafaiai (SV competitive strategy): Grafaiai's naturally high Speed and access to multiple useful abilities let it solidify its spot as both a powerful Swords Dance Terrain sweeper and utility-offering offensive pivot. On Terrain teams, Grafaiai finds ample opportunities to set up thanks to Grassy Seed boosting its Defense, Grassy Terrain weakening Earthquake, and its high Speed, which allows it to invest heavily into its HP. On the other hand, pivot sets excel at disruption thanks to Grafaiai's Prankster Encore, messing with setup sweepers like Flygon and walls like Bronzong alike, and Poison Touch, spreading status onto many defensive staples like Gastrodon, Incineroar, and Diancie. However, Dark-type walls and setup sweepers such as Alolan Muk, Incineroar, and Tera Dark Drednaw can completely ignore Grafaiai's Prankster Encore. Not only that, but Poison Touch pivot sets struggle to get past poison-immune Pokemon like Copperajah, Overqwil, and Immunity Gligar. Grafaiai also struggles to muscle past Ground-types like Swampert, needing to use Acrobatics if it wishes to deal decent damage, but in doing so, it is either vulnerable to being walled by Bronzong or other Steel-types, depending on the coverage move it drops. Additionally, it's quite frail, which is exacerbated on pivot sets, since it can't safely switch into most attackers that it would like to check otherwise, such as Chandelure and Decidueye. Knock Off targets Ghost-types that Gunk Shot fails to hurt like Chandelure and Basculegion-M while hitting both Galarian Slowbro and Bronzong super effectively. Low Kick allows Grafaiai to handle Steel-types like Duraludon and Copperajah. Acrobatics can be run over either Knock Off or Low Kick for a strong and risk-free coverage move that hits Toxicroak super effectively as well as Ground-types such as Swampert and Flygon more powerfully than any other coverage move at Grafaiai's disposal. The first EV spread ensures Grafaiai outspeeds +1 Speed Cinccino, Scream Tail, Flygon, and Munkidori. Alternatively, the second EV spread lets Grafaiai outpace Agility-boosted Flamigo, Unburden Hitmonlee, and Swift Swim Basculegion-M as well as Overqwil. Tera Dark boosts the power of Knock Off and grants Grafaiai an immunity to Psychic-type attacks from Munkidori, Bronzong, and Uxie, giving it a free turn to attack or set up versus them. Similarly, Tera Flying powers up Acrobatics while making Grafaiai immune to Ground-type attacks from Flygon and Gastrodon so that it can set up against or simply attack them. In order to activate Grafaiai's Grassy Seed, it requires Thwackey to set up Grassy Terrain, which also helps Grafaiai with setting up by weakening Earthquake and providing passive recovery. Additionally, Grafaiai benefits heavily from Thwackey, since Thwackey can beat pesky defensive Water- and Ground-types that Grafaiai can have trouble getting past like Vaporeon, Swampert, and Gligar. Due to Ground-types being difficult for Grafaiai to break through by itself, it appreciates teammates that can weaken them, such as Cinccino, Arcanine, and Paldean Tauros-F. What's more, the latter two as well as Oricorio-F and Chandelure can also handle Steel-types like Bronzong and Copperajah for Grafaiai. Torterra is an exceptional teammate for Grafaiai, since it beats bulky Poison-, Steel-, and Ground-types that Grafaiai struggles with KOing, such as Overqwil, Klefki, and Swampert. In return, Grafaiai deals with Grass-types like Decidueye as well as Tsareena, and it deals great damage to, if not outright KOes, the Ground-immune Steel-types—Bronzong and Orthworm—with Swords Dance-boosted Knock Off and Low Kick, respectively. Diancie and Oricorio-P can work alongside Grafaiai to overwhelm shared Steel-type checks like Bronzong and Copperajah. On top of that, they complement it very well; both of them, especially Oricorio-P due to Taunt, are great at breaking through bulkier Pokemon like Gastrodon and Amoonguss as well as more defensive teams, whereas Grafaiai excels at cleaning and sweeping offensive structures. Additionally, Diancie provides Stealth Rock. Knock Off smacks Ghost-types attempting to switch into Gunk Shot such as Basculegion-M and Chandelure. Additionally, it hits Bronzong super effectively while removing important items like Amoonguss's Rocky Helmet, Milotic's Leftovers, and Gligar's Eviolite. Parting Shot and Encore are best used alongside Prankster so that Grafaiai can disrupt both setup sweepers and walls alike, though Encore can be run on Poison Touch sets that plan to capitalize on and punish walls as well as slower setup sweepers by poisoning them. Poison Touch complements U-turn quite well, spreading poison as Grafaiai switches out. Switcheroo is run solely with Choice Scarf, letting Grafaiai cripple walls and setup sweepers by locking them into status moves. Tera Dark gives Grafaiai STAB-boosted Knock Off and an immunity to Psychic-type attacks. Grafaiai often finds itself drawing in and walled by poison-immune Pokemon like Alolan Muk, Copperajah, and Immunity Gligar. Because of this, wallbreakers that can capitalize on these walls like Flygon, Chandelure, and Paldean Tauros-W are recommended. When these poison-immune Pokemon are cleared, Grafaiai can easily spread poison to walls like Diancie, Avalugg, Gastrodon, and Milotic. This can open up powerful Pokemon that are usually held back by these defensive staples like Incineroar, Flygon, Kilowattrel, and Inteleon. Walls like Vaporeon, Incineroar, and Bronzong enjoy Grafaiai's access to Prankster Encore, since it can lock setup sweepers such as Toxicroak and Trick Room Diancie as well as Substitute Basculegion-M into status moves, mitigating how effectively they can take advantage of these walls. Fast Psychic- and Ground-types like Munkidori, Booster Energy Scream Tail, and Choice Scarf Flygon easily force out Grafaiai, so partners like Bronzong, Copperajah, and Gligar are appreciated. On Terrain sweeper sets, Grafaiai can run Tera Blast Grass to clear sturdy Ground- and Water-types for teammates like Diancie, Hitmonlee, and Oricorio-F. However, Tera Blast being a wasted moveslot if Grafaiai doesn't Terastallize makes it unappealing overall, and it requires Grafaiai to drop other important coverage. On Prankster pivot sets, Toxic can be run to cripple walls and setup sweepers, though Grafaiai can simply run Poison Touch and spread poison with its attacks, not needing need to waste a moveslot. Taunt could also be used to stop those same Pokemon from healing or setting up, but Encore and Switcheroo often find more use through the course of a game. Additionally, Copycat is usable due to it letting Grafaiai attack frail but fast foes with priority Gunk Shot and Knock Off, but it's difficult to fit with Encore, Parting Shot, and U-turn being more generally useful. Poison Jab is a usable alternative over Gunk Shot due to its reliable accuracy, but its lower power and contact effect make it undesirable.
Stonjourner (SS competitive strategy): Stonjourner's terrible Special Defense and lackluster Speed tier make it a poor choice for SS ZU. Use Lycanroc-N instead, which boasts more reliable STAB moves thanks to No Guard, a better Speed tier, and excellent priority in Sucker Punch. Stonjourner aims to make progress against teams with its excellent coverage boosted further by Choice Band. However, its middling Speed and atrocious Special Defense mean it often finds very few opportunities to make progress. Use Lycanroc-N instead, which has better Speed, priority in Sucker Punch, and superior Fighting-type coverage with Close Combat.
Alomomola (XY competitive strategy): Alomomola is one of the best mixed walls in the tier because of its extremely high HP, high Defense, and amazing typing. It has access to Regenerator and Wish, which enable it to heal itself and its teammates upon switching out. It also has access to Scald and Knock Off, which make it able to check common threats such as Sneasel, Delphox, Flygon, Glalie, and Houndoom. However, due to its horrible offensive presence, it becomes a setup fodder for many sweepers and entry hazard setters. It also faces competition from Jellicent, which has better offensive presence as well as access to Taunt and Recover, but Jellicent lacks Regenerator and Wish and is weak to Knock Off. Wish lets Alomomola heal itself as well as its teammates fairly easily. Protect is used to safely heal Alomomola with Wish, rack up Toxic damage, scout Choice-locked Pokemon, and gain an extra turn of recovery from Leftovers. Although Scald is extremely weak due to Alomomola's base 40 Special Attack, it has a 30% chance to burn the foe, crippling physical attackers such as Escavalier, Rhyperior, and Virizion on the switch. It can also burn common switch-ins such as Venusaur, which doesn't like the residual burn damage. Toxic puts any Pokemon that's not immune to it on a timer and stops them from setting up freely, as well as allowing Alomomola to win stall wars easily. Knock Off can also be used as a utility move to remove Choice items and break the Substitute of Substitute + Calm Mind Meloetta, which otherwise sets up on Alomomola. The EVs increase Alomomola's overall bulk and give an extra turn of recovery from Leftovers. A spread of 104 HP / 252 Def / 152 SpD with Bold nature can be used to check physical threats such as Life Orb Druddigon and Choice Band Flygon better. Leftovers gives Alomomola residual recovery, which is great when combined with Wish and Protect. Regenerator is used to recover HP while switching out and passing Wish; letting Alomomola focus less on healing itself throughout the match. An Impish nature is used alongside Knock Off to break Substitute + Calm Mind Meloetta's Substitute. A Bold nature increases Alomomola's physical bulk, making it able to deal with heavy hitters such as Swords Dance Samurott better. Alomomola should be used as a mixed wall, switching into any move it's not weak to, as well as providing Wish support for itself and for its teammates that lack reliable recovery. Alomomola should focus on wearing down its foes by burning or poisoning the foe, depending on whether they're physically or specially oriented, as it has poor offensive prowess. The combination of Alomomola's great bulk and Regenerator gives it the opportunity to switch into a lot of attackers, scout their set, and then switch out relatively harmlessly. Remember that Alomomola usually kills momentum, so it should not be used on an offensive team; it is suited better on balanced or stall teams. Pokemon that can take Electric- and Grass-type attacks are great teammates for Alomomola, such as Venusaur, Roselia, and Virizion. Roselia can use common Alomomola switch-ins as Spikes fodder, while Virizion can use them as setup fodder. Escavalier, Druddigon, Flygon, Houndoom, and Scrafty can also defeat the Pokemon that trouble Alomomola while providing offensive pressure with their sheer power and good bulk. These Pokemon also appreciate Wish support from Alomomola, as they get worn down easily. Clerics such as Aromatisse, Togetic, and Granbull are good partners to Alomomola, as they can remove status that can wear down Alomomola. Bronzong or Registeel can make a great defensive core with Alomomola, as they can counter a good portion of Grass- and Electric-types while Alomomola takes Fire- and Ground-type attacks for them and provides Wish support. Waterfall can be used over Scald for more power to check Houndoom and Delphox much more easily, but Scald's 30% chance to burn foes is more valuable. Mirror Coat can be used to punish special attackers that try to KO Alomomola, but its other moves are too valuable to be replaced. Magic Coat can be used to avoid status ailments, Taunt, and entry hazards, as well as gain residual recovery from Leftovers because Alomomola can use it repeatedly. Healing Wish can be used on offensive teams to recover win conditions while not losing momentum as well as act as a defensive pivot. Refresh can be used to cure Alomomola from status ailments, which otherwise reduces Alomomola's longevity. Tickle can be used to stop setup sweepers such as Dragon Dance Scrafty and Bulk Up Gurdurr by PP stalling them.
Alomomola (SM competitive strategy): Alomomola has a great defensive typing, a huge HP stat, and a solid Defense stat, which allow it to blanket check a huge portion of the physically based metagame, including huge threats such as Infernape, Mega Sharpedo, and Cobalion. Its access to Wish provides great team utility and gives it a means of reliable recovery at the same time. Regenerator allows Alomomola to easily pivot in and out of the physical attackers it checks throughout a match. These traits allow it to fit comfortably on stall and balanced teams as a premier Wish passer that can blanket check many Pokemon. However, Alomomola is a pretty passive Pokemon because of its low offensive stats, meaning it can be turned into setup fodder by Pokemon that it cannot threaten, like Celebi, and Substitute users, such as Gengar and Kyurem. Its low Special Defense stat also means that it can be taken advantage of by special attackers such as Primarina and Hydreigon. While it only has two weaknesses, Pokemon that threaten Alomomola such as Rotom-H and Amoonguss see high usage. Alomomola is also very susceptible to Toxic Spikes and other entry hazards, which require removal if Alomomola wants to avoid the 2HKO from most of the attackers it checks. While very bulky, Alomomola is not bulky enough to take on extremely powerful wallbreakers such as Swords Dance Terrakion and Crawdaunt, which are big threats to balance and stall teams. Wish heals not only Alomomola but also its teammates. Protect ensures that Alomomola receives its Wish and lets it scout for common Choice item users such as Hydreigon. Toxic allows Alomomola to stall out the attackers it checks with Wish and Protect. Scald is the primary option in the fourth slot, as it can burn physical attackers such as Scizor and Cobalion. Knock Off is also an option in either the Toxic or Scald slot to remove items such as Amoonguss's Black Sludge and Klefki's Leftovers. The given EV spread with a Bold nature is the best possible spread Alomomola can use, as it maximizes Alomomola's overall bulk. If Alomomola is only running Knock Off, then Impish is the preferred nature. Regenerator is by far the best ability Alomomola can use, giving it one-third of its health back every time it switches in and out, allowing it to pivot in and out of the attackers it checks. Leftovers is used to give Alomomola more passive recovery and helps with potential status ailments such as Toxic poison and burns. Rocky Helmet is an option as well to wear down physical attackers and U-turn users because Alomomola can still get passive recovery from Regenerator, but it leaves Alomomola significantly more vulnerable to residual damage. Alomomola completely walls physical attackers such as Mega Sharpedo and Choice Band Scizor, so it's best to switch into them and start spreading Toxic poison as much as possible. Don't switch Alomomola into Pokemon such as Crawdaunt and Terrakion until their set has been scouted, as these Pokemon possess the ability to OHKO or heavily damage Alomomola at +2 with potential Z-Moves. Make sure to clear all entry hazards before pivoting Alomomola into a physical attacker, since, with multiple layers of Spikes and Stealth Rock up, it is often 2HKOed. Make sure that Alomomola cannot be 2HKOed by what it is switching into, especially when using Rocky Helmet. Alomomola should also focus on keeping its team healthy with its huge Wishes, so whenever a Pokemon is low on health, try to heal it back up. Against non-setup sweepers, Alomomola can be used as a scout to reveal potential Choice item users because of Regenerator, as it can pivot in and out of them without fearing being worn down. Be careful using Scald if the enemy team has a Mega Altaria, as a Scald burn could power up Facade and allow Mega Altaria to break through your team more easily. It should be noted that Alomomola fits best on stall and balance teams. Blissey is one of Alomomola's best partners because it blanket checks most special attackers in UU, while Alomomola blanket checks most physical attackers. The two form a rock-solid defensive core that is very hard to break. Clerics are also nice to have on a team with Alomomola, since Toxic puts it on an uncomfortable timer and can prevent it from walling Pokemon late-game. Mega Altaria and Blissey can fill this role well on stall teams. Quagsire is another good partner for Alomomola because, with Unaware, it is able to check setup sweepers such as Swords Dance Terrakion, Swords Dance Cobalion, and certain Crawdaunt sets, and Alomomola helps out by being able to pass a Wish to Quagsire so it avoids the 2HKO from said Pokemon, although this does stack a Grass-type weakness. Entry hazard removers such as Latias, Moltres, and Tentacruel are almost mandatory because Alomomola detests Toxic Spikes and any other entry hazard that can wear it down. Grass-type checks are nice because Grass-types take advantage of Alomomola pretty well. Togekiss checks Amoonguss, while Latias can check Celebi and Amoonguss as well. Electric-type checks such as the aforementioned Quagsire and Latias are also appreciated. Healing Wish is a valid option on any bulky offensive team, as it can heal up Pokemon such as Mega Beedrill and Mega Manectric.
Alomomola (SS competitive strategy): Alomomola is a great asset on stall teams due to its amazing HP stat, letting it safely pass a lot of HP to its teammates with Wish. This capability is extremely valuable for Pokemon like Mega Sableye and Chansey, which can be pressured by repeated attacks during the game. Furthermore, Alomomola's good bulk, typing, and Regenerator let it either pivot or check dangerous physical attackers such as Weavile, Mega Scizor, and Mega Swampert, as well as letting it act as a solid midground against powerful threats like Garchomp and Hydreigon. However, Alomomola faces competition from Toxapex, Quagsire, and Gastrodon as a bulky Water-type, since they provide much more utility with Toxic Spikes, Unaware, and an electric immunity, respectively. Scald lets Alomomola cripple physical attackers like Mega Medicham, Kartana, and Rillaboom. Knock Off punishes multiple Alomomola switch-ins such as Clefable, Toxapex, and Tapu Koko by removing their items. Wish lets Alomomola safely heal itself or its teammates, while Protect lets Alomomola scout moves from Choice-locked Pokemon like Tapu Lele, Ash-Greninja, and Magnezone. Toxic can cripple setup sweepers that try to take advantage of Alomomola's passivity such as Tapu Lele, Mega Latias, and Hydreigon. Rocky Helmet is used to punish physical attackers like Mega Lopunny, Mega Swampert, and Mega Scizor. Due to Alomomola's great HP stat, an EV spread of 40 HP / 216 Def / 252 SpD allows Alomomola to deal with Hydreigon, Heatran, and Ash-Greninja a little better. Alomomola only fits on stall teams, where its Wish support is highly valuable for its teammates. As such, Clefable, Chansey, and Mega Sableye are good partners, since they appreciate Alomomola providing reliable recovery when they are under pressure. Electric-types like Tapu Koko and Magnezone often force Alomomola out, so Volt Switch blockers like Shedinja and Gliscor can prevent them from generating momentum. Chansey can handle most of the special attackers that threaten Alomomola, like Tapu Koko, Hydreigon, and Mega Charizard Y, and appreciates Alomomola's Wish support relieving the pressure that Chansey suffers during the course of battle. Skarmory and Corviknight are fantastic teammates because they can deal with problematic Grass-types like Rillaboom and Kartana. In return, Alomomola can check Mega Charizard X and Victini for them. Corviknight can also provide Defog support, reducing Alomomola's tendency to be worn down by entry hazards. Mega Sableye can deny entry hazards from common setters like Ferrothorn and Toxapex, letting Alomomola pivot more safely. Powerful wallbreakers such as Tapu Lele and Mega Mawile heavily threaten Alomomola, so Pokemon that check them like Chansey and the aforementioned Skarmory are appreciated. Chansey and Clefable can also provide cleric support for Alomomola, bypassing its status weakness. Leftovers can provide passive recovery to better check Garchomp and Landorus-T, but without Rocky Helmet, Alomomola can't punish U-turn from Mega Scizor and Mega Lopunny. Using both Scald and Knock Off is an option to annoy offensive teams, but lacking Toxic means that Alomomola can't cripple common setup sweepers like Hydreigon and Mega Latias, making it even more passive.
Alomomola (SV competitive strategy): Alomomola's gargantuan HP stat, good defensive typing, a slow Flip Turn, and Regenerator make it one of the best defensive pivots available that can reliably pass Wishes to its teammates. On top of reliably gaining recovery from Wish, Protect has many more applications for Alomomola; it allows Alomomola to scout Choice item users like Walking Wake and Gholdengo, scout for potential double switches by the opponent, and potentially stall out an additional turn of burn damage from Scald. Scald immediately threatens Great Tusk and Landorus-T; bolsters Alomomola's defensive presence by crippling physical attackers such as Kingambit, Zamazenta, and Dragonite; punish foes like Rillaboom and Ogerpon from switching in; and cut down the longevity of switch-ins like Galarian Slowking and opposing Alomomola. Tickle is an alternative option that allows Alomomola to neutralize Dragon Dance Dragonite and Kyurem without relying on Scald's as well as Curse Dondozo thanks to Tickle's higher PP. The Defense drop provided by Tickle may also allow one of Alomomola's teammates to beat foes that Alomomola itself may not, such as Calm Mind Clefable and Swords Dance Gliscor. Tera Ghost gives it an immunity to Fighting-type moves from Zamazenta, letting it reliably deal with IronPress variants; it can additionally be used to spinblock against Great Tusk and Iron Treads. Tera Steel gives Alomomola a generally solid defensive typing to aid against Rillaboom, Tyranitar, and Choice Band Dragapult. Heavy-Duty Boots allows it to function as a pivot effectively without getting worn down by entry hazards, but on teams with strong entry hazard removal, other items can be considered. Rocky Helmet enhances Alomomola's role as a physical wall by punishing foes like Zamazenta, Kingambit, and Great Tusk. Red Card is an alternative that allows Alomomola to act as a one-time phazer against setup sweepers like Zamazenta, Kingambit, Dragonite, and Iron Moth. Covert Cloak is an option on teams weak to Garganacl, as this allows Alomomola to switch into its Salt Cure safely. A Relaxed nature with 0 Speed IVs ensures that Alomomola is as slow as possible to bring in its teammates safely, with maximum Defense investment letting it check foes like Great Tusk, Zamazenta, and Cinderace more reliably. Alomomola performs best on balance and stall teams due to the sheer value of Wish for teammates that lack reliable recovery. Potent defensive Pokemon such as Ting-Lu, Heatran, and Great Tusk heavily appreciate Alomomola's gargantuan Wish to heal them reliably, as these walls often struggle to recover themselves after chip damage. Similarly, on stall, the likes of Dondozo and Clodsire appreciate Alomomola's Wish help them better deal with chip damage while also letting them preserve Rest and Recover PP, respectively. Additionally, they appreciate Alomomola's effectiveness as a pivot, as it can let them switch in without taking any damage thanks to its relatively low Speed. Special walls such as Blissey, Clodsire, and Skeledirge can cover Alomomola's weaker Special Defense, handling the likes of Iron Valiant and Heatran. Other Pokemon with Regenerator such as Galarian Slowking and Tornadus-T can form potent Regenerator cores, making them difficult to wear down in the face of entry hazards. All of these Pokemon also appreciate Alomomola's capability to take Knock Off rather well. Alomomola is deathly afraid of Ogerpon-W because of Water Absorb. It can easily set up on and decimate Alomomola even after it Terastallizes. Thus, checks to Ogerpon-W such as Rillaboom and Zamazenta make for excellent partners. The former two also appreciate Alomomola's Wish supporting their otherwise shaky longevity. Amoonguss's access to Toxic lets Alomomola have an easier time chipping down and stalling out foes with Flip Turn and Wish, respectively. Offensive Pokemon such as Dragapult, Meowscarada, and Landorus-T appreciate Alomomola's slow pivoting and ability to pass large Wishes to assist with their longevity. Alomomola can use Assault Vest to improve its poor Special Defense, becoming a specially defensive pivot at the expense of Wish. Alomomola can soak up most moves from special attackers like Dragapult, Darkrai, and Iron Moth and pivot out with Flip Turn to the appropriate teammate, particularly frail offensive ones, with Regenerator recovering most of the damage taken. Scald is Alomomola's best move if it wants to stay in, fishing for burns that help pressure defensive switch-ins like Galarian Slowking, Ting-Lu, and Clodsire; cripple opposing physical attackers like Dragonite, Zamazenta, and Kingambit; and punishing would-be switch-ins like Meowscarada and Rillaboom. Mirror Coat makes use of its huge special bulk to retaliate against the plethora of attackers it can take hits from, like Dragapult, Iron Moth, and even Raging Bolt. Play Rough immediately dents Pokemon like Kyurem, Raging Bolt, Hydrapple, and Dark-type special attackers like Darkrai that do not fear Mirror Coat at all. Body Slam allows Alomomola to spread paralysis, particularly against foes that don't mind its Scald burn, like Deoxys-S, Clefable, and Ogerpon-W, especially as the latter might switch in attempting to block its Flip Turn. Aqua Jet lets it pick off severely weakened fast foes like Darkrai, Iron Valiant, and Ceruledge. A Sassy nature completes the build to be as slow as possible, as it notably Speed ties opposing Alomomola as well as underspeed Hydrapple, Ting-Lu, and Clefable, allowing for Alomomola's teammates to enter safely. Tera Fairy is the primary option to help against rampaging Dragon- and Dark-types like Dragapult and Hisuian Samurott while additionally boosting the damage from Play Rough to the point of securing a 2HKO against Hisuian Samurott and Iron Valiant. It also helps against Raging Bolt and Hydrapple, two special attackers that can boost past the threat of Mirror Coat and thus pose a major threat to Alomomola. Tera Normal leverages the lack of weaknesses to the tier's common special attackers and their coverage moves as well as letting it pivot into Gholdengo and Nasty Plot Pecharunt more reliably while also boosting the power of Body Slam. Tera Steel is an option that improves matchups against Calm Mind Iron Valiant and Grass-types like Rillaboom, Meowscarada, and Ogerpon and lets it resist Stealth Rock. Alomomola can afford to run a mixed defensive EVs spread of 20 HP / 236 Def / 252 SpD to better handle mixed attackers like Iron Valiant and Dragapult, with the additional 20 HP EVs allowing Alomomola to survive Tera Ice Choice Specs Kyurem's Freeze-Dry after Stealth Rock. Assault Vest Alomomola fits best on bulky offense teams that appreciate its ability to tank hits and pivot but do not require the sustained healing from Wish. Strong and fast attackers like Darkrai, Dragapult, and Deoxys-S appreciate Alomomola's ability to provide them with a safe entrance after a slow Flip Turn while at the same time being able to switch in on potential revenge killers like Choice Scarf Landorus-T, Weavile, and Dragonite. Offensive pivots like Landorus-T, Lokix, Raging Bolt, and Cinderace can form a VoltTurn core with Alomomola and appreciate it tanking hits and pivoting on Darkrai and Walking Wake. Physical walls like Pecharunt, Zamazenta, and Skarmory can benefit from Alomomola handling special attackers like Iron Moth and Dragapult, allowing them to wall or set up on remaining physical threats that can threaten Alomomola such as Rillaboom and Ogerpon-W, the latter of which can even prevent Alomomola from pivoting around freely. Ground-type teammates like Ting-Lu, Gliscor, and Iron Treads are a must to handle foes like Raging Bolt and Zapdos; besides the threat of setup from Calm Mind Raging Bolt, they can also pivot out with Volt Switch, doing big damage and avoiding the answer of Mirror Coat by pivoting to a Dark-type like Kingambit or Ting-Lu. Alomomola is vulnerable to Toxic Spikes, so Poison-types like Iron Moth and the aforementioned Pecharunt can be a good fit. Similarly, Spikes and Stealth Rock can also wear down Alomomola due to the lack of Heavy-Duty Boots, preventing its ability to survive and pivot for longer and ruining the surprise of the Assault Vest. To handle this, teammates like Great Tusk, Corviknight, and Hatterene can help to remove and prevent hazards. Corviknight can also help as a check to Grass-types like Hydrapple and Rillaboom.
Cursola (SS competitive strategy): Cursola is listed as unviable due to its mediocre physical bulk and slow Speed stat making it greatly outclassed by the likes of Jynx, Thievul, and Exeggutor, since they either have better overall bulk or Speed. The best Pokemon in the tier, Miltank, is immune to its STAB move, giving it trouble consistently using it safely, and very common foes resists its coverage moves. Cursola is a decent wallbreaker with its insanely high base 145 Special Attack stat and typing that hits a majority of the tier neutrally. Its main issue is its poor Speed, which makes it easy to take advantage of. Its competitors, Thievul, Jynx, and Exeggutor, are immediately threatening with their better Speed stats and access to boosting moves. They also don't struggle to hit Miltank with their powerful STAB moves.
Darmanitan (XY competitive strategy): Darmanitan is almost the definition of a hard-hitting Fire-type, sporting an impressive base 140 Attack alongside a Sheer Force-boosted STAB Flare Blitz. To augment its sheer power, it has a solid base 95 Speed, putting it above many Pokemon in UU. Its ability Sheer Force is also useful, boosting the power of not only Flare Blitz, but also useful coverage moves such as Rock Slide. Darmanitan also has some great options for coverage, including Superpower and Earthquake. Sadly, Darmanitan has subpar bulk and no access to recovery moves. As if that weren't enough, its best STAB move, Flare Blitz, further limits its bulk due to its heavy recoil effect. Flare Blitz is Darmanitan's most powerful STAB move, hitting most Pokemon in the tier for heavy damage, especially when boosted by Sheer Force. Rock Slide is a valuable coverage move that is also boosted by Sheer Force, primarily hitting other Fire-types and Mega Aerodactyl. U-turn is useful for gaining momentum, giving a free switch for whatever Pokemon the opponent sends in. Earthquake is recommended in the last slot for hitting Poison-, Steel-, Fire-, and Electric-types super effectively, but Superpower can be used, as it hits Normal- and Dark-types super effectively while retaining coverage against Rhyperior, but it misses out on coverage against Poison- and Electric-types such as Nidoqueen and Mega Ampharos, respectively. The given Attack and Speed EVs maximize Darmanitan's cleaning and revenge killing capabilities. The remaining 4 EVs are invested in Special Defense to give Porygon-Z and Porygon2 an Attack boost from Download instead of a Special Attack boost. Sheer Force increases the power of Darmanitan's moves that have secondary effects, including Flare Blitz and Rock Slide. Choice Scarf is used alongside a Jolly nature in order to outspeed threats such as Mega Beedrill, Mega Sceptile, and Mega Aerodactyl. Darmanitan is best used as a revenge killer and late-game cleaner. In the early-game, Darmanitan should be spamming U-turn to wear down its counters and gain momentum to clean more easily in the late-game. You should try to avoid locking Darmanitan into Flare Blitz if the opponent has a Choice Scarf Hydreigon, as it will be able to come in and retaliate with a powerful STAB Draco Meteor. Also, try to avoid using Flare Blitz too much, as the recoil will quickly wear Darmanitan down. A spinner or Defogger makes for a good partner for Darmanitan, as it is weak to Stealth Rock, which will quickly wear it down in conjunction with Flare Blitz recoil. Tentacruel and Mega Blastoise make for good partners, as Darmanitan can beat Grass-types for them and Mega Blastoise and Tentacruel can take on Fire-types; Blastoise can also beat Ground-types, which makes Darmanitan's job easier. Pokemon such as Nidoqueen and Forretress can provide Stealth Rock support to help Darmanitan clean in the late-game more easily. Pokemon that can take on Rhyperior and bulky Water-types make for good teammates, as they otherwise wall Darmanitan. Grass-types such as Shaymin and Roserade make for good teammates in this right, and they can absorb status thanks to Natural Cure. Roserade can provide entry hazard support in the form of Toxic Spikes and Spikes. Finally, Pokemon that can handle faster Choice Scarf users such as Hydreigon and Mienshao are appreciated. Fairy-types such as Aromatisse and Florges can handle them well. Flare Blitz is Darmanitan's most powerful STAB move that is further boosted by Sheer Force. Rock Slide gets excellent coverage alongside Flare Blitz, notably hitting other Fire-types super effectively, and it receives the boost from Sheer Force. U-turn is used to give a free switch to a teammate if the foe switches out, therefore gaining momentum, or to switch out of a foe Darmanitan can't beat. Earthquake is useful to hit Rhyperior and Steel-, Fire-, Poison-, and Electric-types, especially Mega Ampharos, super effectively. Superpower, however, can be used, as it also hits Rhyperior and Steel-types, as well as Normal- and Dark-types such as Snorlax and Umbreon, respectively. Though it has higher Base Power, remember that Superpower also lowers Darmanitan's Attack and Defense. 252 Attack and Speed EVs alongside a Jolly nature maximize Darmanitan's wallbreaking power and Speed. The remaining 4 EVs are placed in Special Defense to force an Attack boost on Porygon-Z and Porygon2 instead of a more threatening Special Attack boost. Sheer Force increases the power of moves with secondary effects by 30%, boosting Flare Blitz and Rock Slide. A Jolly nature is chosen over an Adamant nature to outspeed Pokemon such as Roserade, Krookodile, and Entei. The item choice is up to personal preference: Life Orb allows Darmanitan to switch moves at the cost of a little power and recoil from moves not boosted by Sheer Force (U-turn, Earthquake, and Superpower), but Choice Band grants more power and no recoil at the cost of not being able to switch moves. Darmanitan can try to bluff the Choice Scarf set to lure in a Pokemon and KO it with a boosted move, but you must be careful to reveal the item at the right time. Try to bring Darmanitan in off of a U-turn, Volt Switch, or fainted teammate, as Darmanitan is used as a revenge killer and likes to save its HP for when it's using Flare Blitz. Be wary of the amount of recoil Darmanitan takes when using Flare Blitz, as the damage will quickly wear it down, especially if you failed to keep Stealth Rock and other entry hazards off of the field. A spinner or Defogger is helpful to clear the field of entry hazards so Darmanitan won't be worn down as easily, especially because its most powerful STAB move has recoil. Tentacruel and Blastoise are good in this role, as they can clear entry hazards and break down Ground-, Rock-, and Fire-types, which are a nuisance to Darmanitan. Crobat also makes for a good partner in that it can clear entry hazards with Defog and form a U-turn core with Darmanitan. Grass-types such as Roserade and Shaymin make for good partners for their ability to take on bulky Water-types and Rhyperior. Pokemon such as Hydreigon appreciate the wallbreaking power Darmanitan brings, especially against Fairy-types such as Florges and Aromatisse. That said, Florges and Aromatisse make for good partners due to their ability to take on Hydreigon, one of Darmanitan's best offensive checks. Fire Punch is an option over Flare Blitz to avoid taking recoil damage, but it is much weaker than Flare Blitz and takes away much of Darmanitan's wallbreaking power. Zen Headbutt is an option to hit Fighting- and Poison-types hard without taking recoil damage, but it actually deals less damage than a STAB Flare Blitz and has redundant coverage. It is, however, boosted by Sheer Force. A Belly Drum set with Substitute and Salac Berry can be used to try to sweep, but it requires far too much support to be used effectively.
Darmanitan (SM competitive strategy): While Darmanitan possesses a remarkable Attack stat that is further boosted by its ability Sheer Force, it struggles to perform the role of a wallbreaker reliably. Darmanitan is susceptible to being revenge killed, as it is easily worn down through the combination of its weakness to Stealth Rock and recoil damage from Flare Blitz, a move it is overreliant on due to lacking a secondary STAB move to spam. This lack of a dual typing also gives Darmanitan a lot of competition with Infernape, which doesn't have a Stealth Rock weakness, has access to boosting moves in Nasty Plot and Swords Dance, boasts a higher Speed stat, and has access to priority moves like Vacuum Wave and a wider movepool to break past common checks in Mega Altaria, Primarina, and Suicune. Darmanitan is further hindered by its base 95 Speed tier, which, while respectable, leaves it outpaced and revenge killed by a lot of common threats like Hydreigon and Terrakion. Furthermore, very lackluster defenses go with its mono-Fire typing leave Darmanitan unable to take even resisted hits such as a Bullet Punch from Choice Band Scizor, which can 2HKO it after Stealth Rock damage; this leaves it unable to take advantage of the defensive capabilities of its typing at all, meaning it struggles to compete with Infernape in this regard, which is able to deal with threats like Bisharp and the aforementioned Scizor much better. Darmanitan should attempt to wallbreak by switching in safely via a slow pivoting move, off a predicted double switch, or after a partner Pokemon fainting due to its susceptibility to being worn down too quickly if forced to take a hit. This provides Darmanitan with optimal opportunities to wallbreak because almost everything in the tier is unable to switch into a Choice Band- and Sheer Force boosted Flare Blitz well. While this is the case, Darmanitan is unable to reliably break past Pokemon like Mega Slowbro, Suicune, and defensive Mega Altaria due to its lack of coverage options, unlike Infernape, which can run a multitude of different sets with coverage options like Grass Knot and Gunk Shot. Infernape also outclasses Darmanitan as a Choice Band user, as it has a better Speed tier with a secondary STAB option in Close Combat and, as previously mentioned, coverage like Gunk Shot to break past some of their shared Fire-type checks. Furthermore, Choice Band Infernape's Fighting typing removes the weakness to Stealth Rock that greatly hinders Darmanitan. Darmanitan also fails to compete against other noticeable wallbreakers in the tier such as Crawdaunt and Terrakion when it comes to utilizing a Choice Band, as the former has access to priority and the latter has a greater Speed tier, with both also having a better offensive typing.
Darmanitan (SS competitive strategy): Darmanitan is a great wallbreaker and revenge killer on sun teams, with its sun-boosted Flare Blitz being extremely difficult to switch into. Under sun, even the sturdiest of Water-types like Slowking and RestTalk Primarina cannot switch in without risking a 2HKO. Its coverage moves also hit most Fire-resistant Pokemon for good damage, with Rock Slide hitting Moltres and Rotom-H, while Earthquake OHKOes Nihilego and lets Darmanitan revenge kill Tentacruel. Both coverage moves also don't have recoil damage. Darmanitan can be difficult to revenge kill, as it resists Scizor's Bullet Punch and many faster threats are unable to switch in safely. However, its poor bulk and Stealth Rock weakness severely limit its entry points, and it is still forced out by revenge killers such as Lycanroc-D, Azumarill, and Choice Scarf Hydreigon once they are in. Flare Blitz, its main STAB attack, has substantial recoil damage that racks up over time, which reduces Darmanitan's overall longevity. It also struggles to break past Fire-resistant Pokemon with recovery if it lacks sun support, like Primarina and Salamence. Darmanitan faces competition as a Choice Scarf user with Diggersby, which has better longevity due to its Stealth Rock resistance and lack of recoil damage. With a Sheer Force boost and STAB, Flare Blitz hits most Pokemon very hard, OHKOing threats such as Scizor, Azelf, Amoonguss, and Celesteela. U-turn allows Darmanitan to take advantage of the switches it forces and pivot out on Pokemon that aren't 2HKOed by Flare Blitz, like Primarina and Slowking. Rock Slide hits Flying-types such as Salamence and Moltres, and Earthquake OHKOes Nihilego while also hitting Cobalion, Zygarde-10%, and Excadrill without incurring recoil. Choice Scarf ensures that Darmanitan can outspeed Pokemon such as Azelf, Zygarde-10%, and Crobat. Darmanitan best fits on sun teams, which appreciate its revenge killing while strengthening its nuclear Flare Blitz. Torkoal is the cornerstone of sun teams, providing Stealth Rock, Rapid Spin, and sun. Venusaur sets up on foes that threaten Darmanitan, such as Keldeo and Primarina lacking Psychic. In exchange, Darmanitan can break through Celesteela and trade with Noivern, as well as pivoting out of bad matchups like Primarina and Keldeo to give Venusaur setup opportunities. Defensive Celesteela checks Hydreigon and Excadrill, while Darmanitan breaks through Celesteela checks like Chansey. Hatterene checks Dragon-types such as Salamence and Hydreigon, provides Magic Bounce support, and can heal Darmanitan's chip damage from Stealth Rock with Healing Wish. Swampert and Chansey are great pivots that can bring in Darmanitan safely against Excadrill and Krookodile, with Swampert checking Rotom-W and Chansey checking Hydreigon. Skarmory can provide Spikes support, which is valuable in providing chip damage for Darmanitan. It also handles many physical attackers that threaten Darmanitan, such as Diggersby and Hippowdon, well. Trick is an option to debilitate defensive Pokemon such as Hippowdon, Chansey, and Primarina. However, it sacrifices the Speed boost from Choice Scarf, so it should only be used when Choice Scarf is no longer necessary, and has to replace a coverage move. Choice Band can further increase Darmanitan's power, but it becomes more vulnerable to revenge killers like Nihilego and Cobalion, and the additional power is mostly unnecessary. Heavy-Duty Boots grants Darmanitan more longevity, letting it fit on different team archetypes, but the loss of Speed and inability to avoid recoil from being forced into using Flare Blitz prevents it from fulfilling an offensive pivot role that well compared to other options like Azelf.
Arctovish (SS competitive strategy): Slush Rush Arctovish uses its Fishious Rend and boosted Speed to plow through defensive and offensive threats alike. Fishious Rend's incredible power puts immense pressure on any Pokemon that does not resist it, OHKOing frailer Pokemon such as Raikou and 2HKOing bulkier Pokemon such as Registeel and Galarian Weezing. Freeze-Dry hits Water-types, OHKOing Gastrodon after Stealth Rock and Seismitoad from full health, 2HKOing Jellicent after some chip damage, and activating Golisopod's Emergency Exit. Icicle Crash 2HKOes Grass-types such as Celebi and Vileplume, as well as OHKOing Roserade. Substitute allows Arctovish to take advantage of forced switches and allows for easier prediction. Protect is an option to beat First Impression Golisopod and scout faster Choice-locked Pokemon such as Gardevoir and Flygon. The given EV spread allows Arctovish to OHKO Gastrodon and Seismitoad with Freeze-Dry after Stealth Rock and outspeed up to Choice Scarf Rotom-C under hail. A Choice Band set is a fine alternative, dishing out immense power with Fishious Rend. However, its inability to OHKO Seismitoad and Gastrodon and the availability of Water-immune Pokemon make it significantly more prediction reliant. Slush Rush Arctovish requires a hail-setting teammate. Vanilluxe can wallbreak independently and thus is best suited to semi-hail, while dedicated hail teams use a combination of Abomasnow and Aurorus to support its sweepers. Alolan Sandslash synergizes with Arctovish, as one can weaken or beat their checks to open the other up for a sweep. Because Arctovish is weak to Stealth Rock, it appreciates entry hazard control from Pokemon such as Xatu, Dhelmise, Starmie, Crobat, and Flygon. Flygon can check the Fire-type Pokemon such as Chandelure that threaten hail teams and bring Arctovish in safely with U-turn. Similarly, Starmie can pivot into Water-types and Teleport out while keeping hazard setters like Registeel, Bronzong, and Steelix at bay. Because Gardevoir can copy Slush Rush with Trace and counter-sweep hail teams, sturdy answers such as Metagross and Registeel are required on semi-hail. Because Arctovish is unable to break through some bulky Water-types such as Milotic and Suicune, Grass- and Electric-type teammates are important. On semi-hail, Pokemon like Roserade, Nasty Plot Celebi, and Calm Mind Raikou are highly valuable. Roserade can support Arctovish with Spikes, while Raikou and Celebi pair very well with Arctovish offensively. On full hail, Pokemon like Toxicroak or Heliolisk can deal with Water-types. Lastly, checks to Steel-types like Registeel and Cosmic Power Metagross are important, so Pokemon like Xatu and Doublade are good choices.
Dubwool (SS competitive strategy): Dubwool is listed as unviable due to its shallow movepool and lackluster defensive typing. Cofagrigus does a better job as a Defense-boosting Body Press user with better a defensive typing and Shadow Ball to hit Ghost-types. Dubwool attempts to work as a late-game sweeper with Cotton Guard and Body Press. However, it struggles with Body Press being its only move in a tier with popular Ghost-types like Rotom, Froslass, and Gourgeist. Cofagrigus does a much better job in this role with its STAB Shadow Ball, as Dubwool cannot function until its team removes Ghost-types for it and is less immediately threatening.
Accelgor (XY competitive strategy): Accelgor's access to Spikes along with its incredible base 145 Speed makes it an effective suicide lead for hyper offense teams. In addition to Spikes, Accelgor also has access to useful moves such as Final Gambit, which lets it prevent entry hazard removal for a turn to keep momentum on your team's side, and Encore, which heavily discourages foes from trying to set up against Accelgor. Its offensive movepool is decent as well, with useful coverage options such as Focus Blast, Giga Drain, and Sludge Bomb, which gives it good late-game cleaning potential alongside its high Speed. In fact, with a Timid nature, Accelgor naturally outspeeds base 80 Speed Choice Scarf users, notably Medicham, as well as anything slower. However, Accelgor faces stiff competition for a teamslot from other Spikes setters such as Omastar, Mega Glalie, and Qwilfish. In addition to this, Accelgor is quite frail, especially physically, leaving it vulnerable to being revenge killed by strong priority moves and fast Choice Scarf users. Accelgor's high Speed makes it an effective Spikes lead for hyper offense teams. With Spikes set up, the opponent's grounded Pokemon take extra damage upon switching in, making it easier for Accelgor's teammates to break through walls and eventually sweep. Final Gambit is quite important to ensure Spikes stays set up on the other side of the field; its main use is preventing opposing Rapid Spin and Defog users from clearing entry hazards for one turn, after which an appropriate teammate can switch in and threaten the opponent's entry hazard remover. If Accelgor has high HP left, it will take out a large chunk of the foe's HP as well. Encore is useful for locking the foe into support moves and discouraging setup sweepers from setting up on Accelgor, as well as giving Accelgor opportunities to set additional layers of Spikes. It can also provide Accelgor's teammates with an opportunity to set up. Bug Buzz is Accelgor's strongest STAB move, giving it a way of dishing out damage without always resorting to Final Gambit, which is especially important if Accelgor is Taunted by a foe. Energy Ball is an option over Encore, as this allows Accelgor to heavily damage or KO Rhyperior, which might try to anti-lead against Accelgor. This can help clear the path for teammates such as Houndoom and Tauros. With maximum Speed investment and a Timid nature, Accelgor naturally outspeeds the entire unboosted metagame. Full investment in HP maximizes Final Gambit's potential damage output. An alternate spread of 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe can be used to increase the damage output of Bug Buzz instead. Focus Sash allows Accelgor to survive any one hit, allowing it to set up two layers of Spikes against foes that attack it outright. Unburden doubles Accelgor's Speed after Focus Sash activates, allowing it to set up two layers of Spikes even against opposing Choice Scarf users. Accelgor is best used as a lead for hyper offense teams. Be cautious of opposing priority users, such as Hitmonlee and Mega Glalie, as well as Rock Blast users, such as Rhyperior, as these Pokemon can limit Accelgor to a single layer of Spikes. If your opponent brings in a Rapid Spin user to try to remove Spikes, either switch to a teammate that can spinblock or use Final Gambit. If Accelgor is up against a Defog user and Spikes has already been set up, use Final Gambit. This blocks entry hazard removal for a turn, allowing you to bring in a teammate to threaten the foe out and keep entry hazards set up. Final Gambit can also take a serious chunk out of the foe's health if Accelgor is still at high HP, allowing Accelgor to heavily damage or KO a foe that is particularly threatening to your team. Ghost-type Pokemon, mostly Jellicent and Mega Banette, are good teammates because they block Rapid Spin, making it easier to keep Accelgor's Spikes set up on the opponent's side of the field. Mega Banette also has priority Taunt, which can prevent Defog, although it should be kept in mind that it has to have already Mega Evolved for that to happen. A fast Stealth Rock user such as Archeops or Uxie can be useful on entry hazard-stacking offense teams. Strong wallbreakers, including Houndoom, Hitmonlee, Emboar, and Choice Specs Meloetta, can all put huge offensive pressure on the opponent and greatly benefit from the entry hazard support that Accelgor provides. Powerful Volt Switch users such as Choice Specs Rotom-C can help to wear down the opponent's team; entry hazard damage combined with Volt Switch can quickly wear down the foe, not to mention Rotom-C can also demolish Ground-types with Leaf Storm. U-turn users also pair well with Accelgor to keep momentum for your team and leave the opponent at a disadvantage, causing the opponent's team to be worn down by Spikes. Bug Buzz is Accelgor's strongest STAB attack, hitting Pokemon such as Sneasel for massive damage. Hidden Power Ground 2HKOes Qwilfish and Garbodor without any prior damage if Accelgor is running a Modest nature; it also OHKOes Magneton. Focus Blast might initially appear redundant in terms of coverage, but it's still useful because it hits Registeel much harder than Hidden Power Ground does. It also gives Accelgor a way to pressure specially defensive Normal-types. Giga Drain provides great coverage against Rhyperior, Gastrodon, and Seismitoad and can also 2HKO specially defensive Alomomola if Accelgor runs a Modest nature. Energy Ball is another option here, allowing Accelgor to OHKO Rhyperior after Stealth Rock, as long as Rhyperior doesn't have a Careful nature. It also ensures that Accelgor 2HKOes specially defensive Alomomola even when running a Timid nature. Spikes is a great option to capitalize on forced switches, helping to wear down your opponent's team. Sludge Bomb 2HKOes Aromatisse, which can otherwise wall Accelgor completely. Maximum Special Attack and Speed investment maximizes Accelgor's offensive capabilities. Life Orb increases Accelgor's damage output even further. A Timid nature allows Accelgor to outspeed Timid Jolteon and Choice Scarf Medicham. A Modest nature can be used instead to give Accelgor's attacks even more power, allowing it to 2HKO specially defensive Alomomola with Giga Drain. Though it's situational, Sticky Hold is the chosen ability, as it prevents Trick or Switcheroo users from taking Accelgor's item. Accelgor can be used at several points during the game. Its high Speed and good coverage allow it to act as a potent revenge killer as needed. Accelgor should not be directly switched into attacks, as its poor bulk means it struggles to take even resisted hits. Accelgor can potentially be used to clean late-game, but keep in mind that its frailty leaves it fairly easy to revenge kill with Choice Scarf or priority users. If running Spikes, it can punish the opponent's switches quite well, providing more residual damage on the opposing team. Teammates that can remove entry hazards are appreciated, as Accelgor can be worn down quickly due to its frailty, weakness to Stealth Rock, and Life Orb recoil. Hitmonlee and Kabutops work well in this regard, as they can provide Rapid Spin support and help break past special walls for Accelgor. Wallbreakers such as Hitmonlee, Emboar, and Choice Specs Meloetta make for good teammates, as they can break past the special walls that Accelgor struggles with. If running Spikes, a spinblocker such as Mega Banette or Spiritomb can pair up nicely with Accelgor to help ensure entry hazards stay set up. Flying-types such as Golbat and Braviary are quite threatening to Accelgor, as it lacks super effective coverage against them and they threaten to KO Accelgor with Brave Bird. Strong Electric- or Rock-types such as Jolteon, Magneton, and Kabutops can all serve as great offensive Pokemon to deal with Flying-types. Hidden Power Fire can be used on the offensive set to hit Escavalier much harder while retaining decent coverage against most other Steel-types. Yawn is a decent support option that can be used to force switches. Knock Off is a good utility move to remove items from Accelgor's switch-ins, but it doesn't have the room for the move, not to mention Accelgor's Attack stat is weak. U-turn is an option for Accelgor to pivot out of its checks, but the lead set is better off using Final Gambit and the offensive set doesn't enjoy giving up valuable coverage.
Accelgor (SM competitive strategy): Accelgor is an adept Spikes setter, cleaner, and revenge killer thanks to its good offenses and status as the fastest unboosted Pokemon in NU, allowing it to outspeed prominent threats like Choice Scarf Passimian, Heliolisk, and Sceptile. It is also quite versatile; Choice Specs offers raw power but requires a good amount of prediction, while Fightinium Z sets offer a good amount of utility by setting Spikes and can keep themselves healthy with Recover. However, Accelgor heavily struggles against Poison-type Pokemon such as Garbodor, Golbat, and Weezing. While it excels offensively, its defensive presence is lacking despite its access to Recover due to its bad defensive typing and vulnerability to all entry hazards. As an offensive Spikes setter, Accelgor is overshadowed by Garbodor, which is an easier Pokemon to use thanks to its better defenses and defensive typing. Bug Buzz is Accelgor's strongest STAB move, which hurts Pokemon such as Slowking, Sneasel, and Sceptile for super effective damage and 2HKOes Xatu and Sigilyph. Focus Blast allows Accelgor to punish certain switch-ins such as Incineroar, Steelix, Rhydon, and Aerodactyl. Energy Ball is used mainly to deal more damage to Pokemon like Vaporeon, Seismitoad, and Palossand. Spikes heightens Accelgor's offensive presence with chip damage, and it can set Spikes easily thanks to its combined speed and power forcing switches. With maximum Special Attack and Speed investment and Choice Specs, Accelgor is decently powerful and becomes the fastest unboosted Pokemon in NU, allowing it to outspeed Choice Scarf Passimian as well as power through threats like Xatu and Druddigon. Sticky Hold ensures it will never lose its Choice Specs to Knock Off or Trick. Accelgor can be used as a lead thanks to its ability to threaten out Passimian leads and begin setting Spikes or fire off a powerful attack. Due to its paltry defenses, Accelgor should never be brought in against a direct attack. Instead, bring Accelgor in by a pivot, if a teammate has been knocked out, or with an aggressive double switch. If you predict that the opponent will bring in a Pokemon that can take Bug Buzz like Garbodor, Rhydon, Steelix, or Palossand, it is best to either go for one of Accelgor's coverage moves or continue setting Spikes. Keep Accelgor as healthy as possible so it can potentially clean late-game once its checks are removed. Spinners such as Blastoise and Dhelmise pair well with Accelgor, since they can clear entry hazards without removing the Spikes it sets. Xatu in particular is an excellent partner, since it can beat Steelix one-on-one and still provides excellent hazard control. Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon, Druddigon, and Steelix can form a hazard stacking core with Accelgor. Rhydon can also help deal with bulky Flying-types like Golbat and Substitute Braviary and Fire-types such as Incineroar, Delphox, and Magmortar if Accelgor has locked itself into the wrong move. Pivots like Passimian, Togedemaru, and Incineroar can help bring Accelgor into battle safely. Passimian can also check Rock-types, while Togedemaru can check Golbat and Substitute Braviary. Psychic-types like Sigilyph, Delphox, and Slowking can help Accelgor deal with Poison-types. Delphox can even help provide Wish support for Accelgor, and Sigilyph appreciates the Spikes support given it forces many switches itself. Slowking provides Future Sight support, which prevents Poison-types from pivoting in against Accelgor or else they risk getting hit hard. Accelgor is a good Spikes setter thanks to its amazing speed and good offenses that often allow it to force switches against Pokemon it outspeeds and threatens such as Choice Scarf Passimian, Sceptile, and Heliolisk. Bug Buzz threatens Pokemon such as Alolan Exeggutor, Sneasel, and Slowking while 2HKOing Xatu after Stealth Rock and dealing decent damage to Dhelmise and Decidueye. Focus Blast powered up by Fightinium Z allows Accelgor to punish Steel- and Rock-type switch-ins such as Steelix, Rhydon, and Aerodactyl. Recover is mainly used to heal Accelgor on forced switches and scout for what move Choice Scarf Passimian goes for. A Timid nature with maximum Speed investment makes Accelgor the fastest unboosted Pokemon in NU, allowing it to outspeed the most ubiquitous Choice Scarf user, Passimian, as well as other fast Pokemon like Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Aerodactyl. Fightinium Z allows Accelgor to bypass Focus Blast's shaky accuracy and severely dent Pokemon such as Incineroar, Steelix, and Aerodactyl with All-Out Pummeling, as well as reducing the damage taken by Knock Off. Hydration heals Accelgor from status conditions in the rain, which can help improve its matchups against rain teams. Accelgor can be used as a lead because it often forces switches and from there begin setting Spikes or fire off a powerful attack. It can also wallbreak at any point in the game or even clean late-game if its checks and counters are gone. Because of Accelgor's less-than-stellar defenses and defensive typing, bring it in by a pivot, if a teammate has been knocked out, or with an aggressive double switch. Make sure that entry hazards are cleared, since Accelgor will be constantly switching in and out of battle. Use Recover when you predict the foe will switch out their Pokemon or to scout for what move Passimian locks itself into. Try to save Accelgor's Z-Move for a Pokemon it can lure into battle and remove that normally can take Bug Buzz, such as Magmortar, Braviary, or Steelix. A Rapid Spin user such as Blastoise or Dhelmise is recommended when using Accelgor, since they not only clear entry hazards for it but also don't clear its Spikes. Blastoise can also help keep Fire-types in check for Accelgor. Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon, Druddigon, and Steelix can form a hazard stacking core. Rhydon can also help deal with bulky Flying-types like Golbat and Substitute Braviary and Fire-types such as Incineroar, Delphox, and Magmortar if Accelgor has locked itself into the wrong move. Setup sweepers like Comfey, Sigilyph, and Incineroar appreciate Accelgor's Spikes chipping certain Pokemon to make their time sweeping easier. Incineroar also appreciates Accelgor threatening Rhydon and keeping faster foes in check. Comfey also likes Accelgor removing Steelix and Incineroar so it can sweep later on. Other offensive Pokemon such as Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Braviary appreciate Accelgor's ability to lure in and beat Pokemon that wall their STAB moves, such as Rhydon, Incineroar, and Steelix. A bulkier set utilizing maximum HP and Final Gambit + Fightinium Z can be used to heavily dent certain Pokemon that counter Accelgor such as Golbat, Garbodor, and Weezing, making it a solid choice as a lure for teams relying on Comfey as a wincon. Hidden Power Psychic could be used on the Choice Specs set to lure in and take out Poison-types if Accelgor's team already has another Spiker like Garbodor.
Accelgor (SS competitive strategy): Bug Buzz triggers Throat Spray, not only giving it a +1 boost to its Special Attack, but also outspeeding every Pokemon in the metagame thanks to Unburden. This allows it to operate as a lethal late-game cleaner. Focus Blast targets Klinklang and Piloswine, OHKOing the former without a boost and the latter after Stealth Rock or a boost. Sludge Bomb breaks through Clefairy and Alcremie while crippling switch-ins, such as Altaria and Articuno. Giga Drain threatens walls like Rhydon, Palossand, and Qwilfish, 2HKOing all of them while providing recovery. The given EV spread allows Accelgor to outpace Alolan Persian before activating Unburden. Accelgor appreciates having bulky Flying-types like Articuno, Altaria, and Golbat removed before attempting to sweep, as they can wall it without too much trouble. Pokemon like Rotom, Klinklang, and Lycanroc-N can switch in and pressure the aforementioned defensive Pokemon. Choice Scarf Pokemon like Sawk and Manectric outspeed and OHKO Accelgor before it can activate Unburden, so Pokemon that can switch into them, such as Palossand, Tangela, and Rhydon, can help stomach their blows while simultaneously providing early- to mid-game utility. Accelgor cannot OHKO Fire-types like Rapidash and Ninetales even when boosted, so it appreciates Knock Off support from users like Sawk, Thwackey, and Tangela to weaken them into KO range; they also help against the aforementioned Flying-types. Boasting the fastest Speed tier and a strong utility movepool, Accelgor is a potent Spikes lead. Final Gambit can be used to block and heavily weaken Defog and Rapid Spin users like Altaria, Cramorant, and Coalossal at the cost of sacrificing Accelgor. Encore can discourage sweepers like Gurdurr, Silvally-Poison, and Rapidash from setting up in front of it. Yawn discourages other leads like Froslass and opposing Accelgor from setting up their own entry hazards. Infestation traps passive Pokemon like Stunfisk and Clefairy trying to provide utility early-game; it can then lock these Pokemon into their status moves with Encore and set up multiple layers of Spikes reliably. Focus Sash allows Accelgor to be nearly guaranteed to set up a layer of Spikes, while Unburden allows Accelgor to outspeed the entire metagame after being hit with Knock Off or losing its Focus Sash. Sticky Hold is an alternative that prevents it from getting hit by Trick. Accelgor is best suited as the lead slot on offense and hyper offense builds, where offensive Pokemon can capitalize on the entry hazards it sets. Setup sweepers such as Klinklang, Swords Dance Silvally formes, and Galarian Rapidash can pressure foes into either switching to a check or risking a trade with a Defogger like Altaria or Articuno. Pawniard can switch into most Defoggers and threaten them with a Defiant boost from Defog. Ghost-types like Froslass and Gourgeist-S can serve as emergency Rapid Spin blockers against foes like Cryogonal and Kabutops, though they should be aware of super effective coverage options and being pivoted on. Choice Specs turns Accelgor into a threatening wallbreaker, outspeeding the whole unboosted tier. However, its STAB move is commonly resisted by a large portion of the tier, making it heavily reliant on predictions. In addition, it struggles to enter the field safely due to its susceptibility to hazards and frailty, making Accelgor hard to justify over more relevant special wallbreakers like Jynx, Rotom, and Thievul. A Heavy-Duty Boots set with Spikes and either Knock Off or U-turn are options on a utility set; however, Accelgor loses against most Defog users since it is frail and its coverage moves are inadequate to deal with them.
Polteageist (SS competitive strategy): Polteageist is an excellent Shell Smash sweeper due to its useful offensive typing and good stats, and the combination of Cursed Body and Strength Sap allows it to stall out, disable, and break through the majority of its checks such as Obstagoon and Snorlax. Polteageist is a great pick on hyper offense, where it can be supported properly and form wallbreaking cores with Pokemon like Lucario. However, Polteageist's shallow offensive movepool means it must pick whether it gets walled by either Dark-types or Normal-types, and it cannot hope to outlast Pokemon like Umbreon. It also relies on fishing for Cursed Body to get past its checks, and status effects can limit its longevity to the point where it isn't feasible to do so. Polteageist stalls out most physical attackers with Strength Sap and can disable their moves with Cursed Body. Giga Drain allows Polteageist to beat Obstagoon after a Strength Sap, prevents Milotic from using Haze, and provides useful recovery. Alternatively, Stored Power beats Normal-type Pokemon such as Porygon2 and Snorlax and gives a stronger neutral hit, although it makes Polteageist much more vulnerable to Dark-types, particularly Obstagoon. White Herb eases setting up and crucially lowers Knock Off damage after it's been used. The EV spread outspeeds Choice Scarf Flygon after boosting and allows Polteageist to take a Knock Off from Obstagoon at -1. Pokemon commonly found on hyper offense such as Mimikyu, Necrozma, and Lucario complement Polteageist well, either helping break down its checks like Porygon2 or taking advantage of it weakening its checks itself like Swords Dance Incineroar to clean. Fighting-types like Lucario and Cobalion can deal with Normal- and Dark-types like Umbreon and Snorlax. Offensive support can greatly facilitate a Polteageist sweep. For example, Indeedee's Psychic Terrain can block priority and strengthen Polteageist's Stored Power. Alternatively, Misty Terrain from Galarian Weezing neutralizes Pokemon like Toxic Incineroar, Klefki, and Noivern. Spikes from Froslass or Focus Sash Heracross can help to weaken checks like Obstagoon. Polteageist can run Stored Power + Giga Drain to hit both Dark- and Normal-types on the same set, although it doesn't really have the space for it. Weak Armor and Focus Sash might appear enticing, but losing out on Cursed Body and White Herb makes it less effective at outlasting its checks.
Polteageist (SV competitive strategy): Polteageist makes use of Shell Smash, Terastallization, and its coverage options to carve a small niche in the tier as a setup sweeper on a highly niche playstyle: Psychic Terrain hyper offense. A single Shell Smash and a potential Weak Armor boost not only allow Polteageist to outspeed essentially the entire metagame but also crank up Stored Power to remarkable levels under the Terrain to threaten most foes, including bulky neutral targets like Gliscor; Garganacl; Tornadus-T; and even Blissey, which Polteageist beats one-on-one if it only carries Seismic Toss. Tera Fighting lets Polteageist cover otherwise problematic Dark-types like Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, Darkrai, and Ting-Lu with Tera Blast, and the defensive typing grants it setup opportunities and prevents revenge killing attempts from them, particularly with Sucker Punch. Focus Sash compensates for its pitiful bulk to gain the one free turn of boosting that it desperately needs. The power from a Modest nature is preferred, but Timid can be used to let +2 Polteageist outspeed foes like Deoxys-S and +1 Iron Treads and Walking Wake. Polteageist is exclusively used on hyper offense teams, specifically Psychic Terrain variants. As such, Indeedee-M is a must-have partner due to Psychic Surge, as the Terrain boosts Stored Power further and crucially protects Polteageist from being picked off by priority moves from foes like Kingambit, Ceruledge, and Raging Bolt once Focus Sash is consumed. Indeedee-M's Healing Wish also provides extra opportunities to set up. Offensive Psychic-types like Iron Crown and Deoxys-S take advantage of the Terrain themselves to keep up the pressure against the opposition, even overwhelming shared checks like Ting-Lu, Hoopa-U, and Assault Vest Hisuian Samurott for Polteageist. Iron Crown has the added benefit of checking Booster Energy Iron Valiant, which can otherwise still outspeed and threaten a boosted Polteageist. Other offensive Pokemon like Dragonite, Hisuian Samurott, and Zamazenta provide the team with a much-needed defensive backbone against opposing offense on top of being big threats themselves; Dragonite can check Rillaboom, Booster Energy Iron Moth, and Terastallized Ogerpon—which can easily revenge kill a boosted Polteageist, with Rillaboom also capable of messing with the team's Terrain; Hisuian Samurott checks Darkrai and Ghost-types like Gholdengo and Dragapult while also providing valuable entry hazards; and Zamazenta checks and threatens Dark-types and Tera Dark users like Kingambit, Blissey, and Clodsire that can prove problematic. Similarly, the nicher Hawlucha is a Fighting-type alternative that can take advantage of the Psychic Terrain itself with Psychic Seed + Unburden, giving the team an even better matchup against offensive teams. Strong and even multiple forms of hazard control are necessary to preserve Poltegeist's Focus Sash, with the likes of Iron Treads, Great Tusk, Cinderace, and Hatterene being fit for the job. Polteageist can also be used as a niche option on dual screens hyper offense teams, as it takes advantage of Reflect + Light Screen from common setters like Deoxys-S and can still be easily paired with common threats on said structure, like the aforementioned Zamazenta and Dragonite.
Volcarona (BW competitive strategy): Volcarona is one of BW OU's definitive sweepers. Its typing has problematic weaknesses but is an excellent offensive combination with credible defensive merit, resisting Grass, Steel, and most notably Fighting against Breloom and Scizor. Flame Body is a good defensive perk, making up for Volcarona's low natural physical bulk by potentially neutralizing dangerous attackers like Tyranitar and Scizor. Its solid coverage options include Psychic and Giga Drain, which blow away checks such as Tentacruel, Jellicent, Keldeo, Terrakion, and Gastrodon. In addition, its solid Speed tier lets it outspeed serious threats such as Landorus-T, Excadrill, Kyurem-B, and Modest Thundurus-T. Quiver Dance, not only fixing its power, increases its special bulk to take powerful hits like Choice Scarf Keldeo's Hydro Pump outside of rain. Despite these incredible boons, Volcarona can't just be slapped on any team. Despite its resistances and Flame Body, its physical fraility is a concern that can prevent it from outright sweeping, and its 4x Stealth Rock weakness mandates Rapid Spin support. Because of this, Volcarona fits best on offensive teams that can provide this support and easily beat whatever its coverage fails to hit. Though +1 Volcarona's Speed is impressive, it is still outpaced by notable Choice Scarf users like Latios, Garchomp, and Keldeo and is hit hard by Dragonite's Extreme Speed. Fire Blast hits important benchmarks such as OHKOing Thundurus-T, Gliscor, and most Landorus-T at +1, along with having favorable rolls against specially defensive Excadrill unboosted and opposing Volcarona at +1. However, if you are more confident that Volcarona will acquire multiple boosts and prefer reliability and PP over sheer power, Flamethrower is a suitable alternative. Bug Buzz in tandem with Bug Plate hits Pokemon resistant to Flamethrower such as Slowking, Garchomp, Latios, Tyranitar, Rotom-W, and Politoed. In addition, the boosted move decimates Latios and Latias as well as other Dragon- and Ground-types such as Garchomp, Hippowdon, and Kyurem-B. Psychic is mostly used to dish out huge damage to Tentacruel and OHKO Keldeo. Giga Drain is an option to easily OHKO Gastrodon and 2HKO Jellicent with a boost, provide longevity, and retain a strong—albeit not quite fatal—hit on Keldeo and Terrakion. Giga Drain can also be used over Bug Buzz and paired with another coverage move if Volcarona's team is extremely confident against Tyranitar. Finally, if your team can handle Water-types effectively, Hidden Power can be a devastating surprise to an otherwise solid check. Hidden Power Ground devastates Heatran-reliant teams even without a boost. It also preserves Volcarona's ability to hit Terrakion and Tentacruel to an extent. Alternatively, Hidden Power Ice is Volcarona's best weapon against Dragonite, Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Garchomp. The given EV spread maximizes Volcarona's damage output and allows it to outspeed Landorus-T, and consequently outspeed Choice Scarf Landorus-T at +1. The rest of the EVs are dumped into Volcarona's HP, allowing it to survive key hits such as Fusion Bolt from Life Orb Kyurem-B and Low Sweep from Life Orb Breloom twice. Volcarona can run more or less Speed if desired. For example, 160 Speed EVs beat Excadrill, 216 catch Jolly Kyurem-B, and maximum Speed lets Volcarona ties with opposing Volcarona and other base 100s such as Mew. Flame Body potentially incapacitates revenge killers such as Dragonite, Scizor, and Kyurem-B. Insect Plate is the preferred item, as enables Bug Buzz to always OHKO Slowking after Stealth Rock and KO Pokemon like Tyranitar, Garchomp, and Politoed with less prior damage. Mind Plate makes +1 Psychic OHKO Tentacruel after Stealth Rock a majority of the time, eliminating one of Volcarona's best checks, assuming Protect is played around. In a game where it is likely to clean up at the end, Volcarona should switch in indirectly via pivots or double switches, and only once its checks have been severely weakened or removed. If a sweep is highly unlikely, Volcarona can still be useful to check Steel-types, and Flame Body should not be discounted as a last-ditch effort to burn an out-of-control sweeper like Dragonite. Volcarona should stay away from Stealth Rock at all costs; unless it runs Giga Drain, it loses half of its HP permanently and usually forfeits the ability to set up safely. Volcarona should set up primarily against Pokemon it forces out, such as Ferrothorn, offensive Excadrill, Breloom, Jirachi, unboosted Reuniclus, Keldeo locked into non-Water-type moves, Choice Scarf Latios locked into Dragon Pulse, and Celebi. However, Volcarona should also consider attacking them outright—many of them can have moves that hinder Volcarona while using Quiver Dance. Winning this mind game and eliminating a setup opportunity may make it more difficult for Volcarona to sweep regardless, but it can dispose of a crucial threat for a teammate such as Dragonite or Starmie to capitalize on. A Rapid Spin user is necessary. Starmie can form a wonderful offensive core with Volcarona, providing Rapid Spin while pressuring Terrakion, Keldeo, Dragonite, and Heatran. In return, Volcarona mauls most of the Pokemon that trouble Starmie, such as Latios, Ferrothorn, Scizor, and Celebi, and they weaken Tyranitar and Tentacruel for one another. Despite its vulnerability to chip damage, Volcarona can find itself right at home on a sand team. It has excellent synergy with Excadrill, which provides extremely reliable Rapid Spin support and can stomach Stone Edge and Draco Meteor from Terrakion and Latios. Tyranitar checks and traps Volcarona checks such as Tornadus, Heatran, and Choice Scarf Latios, while Volcarona deals with the Steel-types, namely Jirachi and Skarmory, that plague Tyranitar. In addition, both Tyranitar and Excadrill appreciate Volcarona's ability to lure in and remove Politoed and Ground-types such as Garchomp and Landorus-T. Chief among helpful Stealth Rock setters is Landorus-T, which can take on Terrakion, Garchomp, and Dragonite and provide general Intimidate support to help Volcarona set up against physical attackers. Landorus-T can also pivot Volcarona in with U-turn. Rotom-W can do the same while taking advantage of Jellicent and Heatran and luring in Ferrothorn. Sun from Ninetales is another way to support Volcarona, boosting Fire Blast's power to nuclear levels and weakening Water-type assailants. Hidden Power Rock is a seemingly plausible option that has good odds to KO Dragonite and Gyarados after Quiver Dance and Stealth Rock. Hurricane is an option that destroys Keldeo and has solid neutral coverage. Lum Berry can be used for setting up on Toxic or Thunder Wave from Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Jellicent, Gliscor, and Jirachi. Passho Berry is another option, helping Volcarona more easily stomach hits from Water-types such as Politoed, Rotom-W, and most importantly Keldeo. Volcarona can also utilize Rest and Chesto Berry with a more defensive spread. Although this forgoes a good deal of power, it increases Volcarona's longevity and allows it to resist status, giving it many more boosting opportunities. Life Orb Volcarona is an enticing prospect due to its utterly ruthless strength after a boost, but there are a few key factors holding it back. For one, it forces Volcarona to take far more chip damage than it is comfortable with in many cases, especially in tandem with sand, potential Toxic, and Stealth Rock, which can prematurely end its sweep even when it's played carefully. If one chooses to run Life Orb Volcarona, sun support is paramount; +1 Life Orb Volcarona can then 2HKO even the bulkiest special walls with Fire Blast, in particular Chansey and Tentacruel.
Volcarona (XY competitive strategy): Quiver Dance Volcarona is one of the most dangerous sweepers in ORAS OU. Its STAB moves, Giga Drain, and Hidden Power make it very difficult to switch into, its boosted attacks OHKO most Pokemon, and it outspeeds everything but a few Choice Scarf users after boosting, meaning it is more often checked than countered. Although it seems that Volcarona can sweep through a majority of teams on paper, in reality, its Stealth Rock weakness mandates entry hazard removal and limits setup opportunities. Its low bulk makes it susceptible to priority moves from Talonflame, Mega Pinsir, Crawdaunt, Dragonite, and Bisharp. Volcarona's sweeps are shut down by Chansey, and without the proper coverage, it is also be walled by bulky Fire- and Dragon-types like Heatran, Volcanion, Mega Charizard X, and Dragonite. Quiver Dance increases Volcarona's Speed so that it outruns all of the unboosted metagame. Fire Blast allows it to deal massive neutral damage, greatly threatening checks like Assault Vest Tornadus-T, especially when boosted. Alternatively, Flamethrower can be run as a more accurate option while still dealing high damage. Bug Buzz hits Psychic-types like Latias, Mew, and Reuniclus as well as deals great damage to checks like Tyranitar and Dragon-types like tank Garchomp, which are otherwise good answers to Volcarona. Giga Drain allows Volcarona to hit Water-types like Keldeo, Rotom-W, and Slowbro and Ground-types like Hippowdon, Seismitoad, and Gastrodon, all while providing Volcarona with a source of recovery. Alternatively, Hidden Power Ground allows Volcarona to muscle past Heatran and most Volcanion sets which are otherwise are good Volcarona checks. A Modest nature guarantees an OHKO on Heatran with Hidden Power Ground and on Slowbro with Giga Drain. It also lets Volcarona OHKO specially defensive Gliscor and Tornadus-T after Stealth Rock with Fire Blast. The downside of running a Modest nature is that it leaves Volcarona than Choice Scarf Pokemon like Excadrill, Landorus-T, Kyurem-B even after a boost while also being slower than maximum Speed Excadrill, Landorus-T, Kyurem-B, Jolly Medicham, and Timid Manaphy at +0. This can be avoided by running a Timid nature, but this is at the expense of reducing the damage output and losing OHKOs on certain Pokemon. The power of this set allows Volcarona to be used at various points in the game as either an early-game or mid-game wallbreaker or as a late-game sweeper. It is especially lethal early game, since it can catch opponents off guard by immediately applying pressure as opposed to waiting until late-game scenarios to try and pull off a sweep. This lets Volcarona weaken its own checks by immediately throwing off attacks or setting up early to punch holes for teammates to come in and make use of. Avoid bringing Volcarona in against entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock, to maximize Volcarona's health and let it stick around longer. Volcarona should be brought in on Pokemon it can safely set up against like Ferrothorn, non-Thunder Wave Clefable, and Steel-types like Skarmory and Magnezone. Entry hazards, particularly Stealth Rock, are dangerous for Volcarona, so partners like Excadrill, Latias, and Zapdos that can remove hazards for it are great partners. Latias can provide Healing Wish, dual screens and Thunder Wave support to Volcarona, whereas Zapdos can bring it in safely with Volt Switch. Mega Diancie can prevent hazards with Magic Bounce and can come in on Tornadus-T, which Volcarona is threatened by. Dual screens support from Serperior also ensures that Volcarona can stay healthy for a longer duration. Clefable provides Knock Off support to remove items like Assault Vest from Tornadus-T and Tyranitar, allowing Volcarona to beat them easily. Pokemon that can take advantage of Volcarona's wallbreaking such as Manaphy and Keldeo make fantastic partners, since they benefit from Volcarona weakening their special checks in Tornadus-T and Latias while being able to deal with Volcarona's checks in Chansey and Sand Rush Excadrill. +1 Volcarona is faster than all relevant Pokemon bar Sand Rush Excadrill and rare Choice Scarf users like Garchomp, Terrakion, and Keldeo. Bug Buzz allows Volcarona to hit Psychic-types like Latios, Latias, Mew, and Reuniclus as well as Dark-types that resist Fire like Hydreigon and Tyranitar. Giga Drain provides some recovery and KOes Water-types like Keldeo, Gastrodon, Manaphy, Slowbro, Starmie, and Rotom-W after one or two boosts. Hidden Power Ground allows Volcarona to severely damage or KO a few Pokemon that would normally switch into it such as Heatran and Volcanion. Flame Body can punish priority users that may try to whittle Volcarona down such as Fake Out Medicham and Lopunny, which become setup fodder if burnt. Even if Volcarona is KOed, a Flame Body burn can allow other team members to set up. Lum Berry enables setup on Pokemon that can inflict status like Serperior, Amoonguss, Ferrothorn, and Slowbro. It also can save Volcarona from foes that run Prankster + Thunder Wave such as Thundurus and Klefki. When using Volcarona, always look for ways to chip its checks and counters. Volcarona enjoys Stealth Rock for wearing down checks like Talonflame and Volcanion over time and needs Stealth Rock removed from its own side before setting up. Common Pokemon that Volcarona can set up on are Ferrothorn, Serperior, Tangrowth, and Amoonguss; Volcarona can set up on Pokemon Choice locked into the wrong move such as -2 Latios and Latias locked into Draco Meteor, Magnezone locked into Hidden Power Fire, and even Keldeo locked into Secret Sword if Stealth Rock is not up. Do not underestimate Volcarona's special bulk while it is boosting. If the opponent switches to a Pokemon like Tornadus-T, Manaphy, Rotom-W, or Slowbro, Volcarona can easily use Quiver Dance again, avoiding a 2HKO while threatening to OHKO back. While Volcarona is mostly used as a mid- or late-game sweeper, it can also be used early-game to wallbreak and lure its checks into getting chipped or trapped. Volcarona appreciates entry hazard removal from spinners like Excadrill and Starmie and Defoggers like Latios and Latias. Excadrill can also set Stealth Rock and appreciates Volcarona's ability to deal with Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Slowbro, Tangrowth, and Skarmory. Latias is also an excellent partner outside of Defog, as it provides dual screens, Safeguard, and Healing Wish support. On more offensive teams, Volcarona appreciates partners that can switch into and overwhelm its checks and counters. Pokemon like Manaphy can switch into Aqua Jet from Azumarill and Crawdaunt, while Thundurus can switch into Talonflame and use it to set up. Manaphy can overwhelm special walls like Chansey and help eliminate Fire-types like Heatran and Talonflame as well as Dragon- and Ground-types like Mega Altaria, Dragonite, Garchomp, and Hippowdon. Thundurus can help eliminate bulky Water-types like Suicune and checks to Volcarona such as Heatran, Talonflame, and Dragonite. Serperior is a unique utility option because it can set up dual screens for Volcarona or bait in checks like Heatran and KO them with Hidden Power. Pokemon that appreciate other Steel-types being removed such as Mega Metagross, Mega Altaria, Mega Diancie, and Dragonite also pair well with Volcarona; they support Volcarona by removing Heatran with Earthquake or Earth Power. Pokemon that appreciate bulky Psychic-types being removed such as Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny pair well with Bug Buzz Volcarona. In return, they remove Chansey with High Jump Kick and bulky-Dragon-types like Dragonite and Garchomp with Ice Punch. On bulkier teams, Volcarona appreciates partners that can chip or trap its checks and counters. Knock Off users such as Bisharp, Weavile, Tornadus-T, and Clefable can help Volcarona sweep by removing items like Assault Vest from Tornadus-T, Eviolite from Chansey, and Leftovers from Heatran, specially defensive Garchomp, and Clefable. Pursuit users like Tyranitar can help Volcarona by trapping and chipping Pokemon like Heatran and Talonflame. Glare Serperior, Thunder Wave Clefable, and Starmie are great partners that can cripple bulky Water-types, Charizard, Heatran, Tornadus-T, Keldeo, Manaphy, and Clefable with status. If Volcarona's checks get paralyzed, it gets chances at free setup turns and has less to fear from opposing setup sweepers like Manaphy. Toxic from Pokemon like Gastrodon and Slowbro can be very important to wear down Talonflame, bulky Dragon-types like Garchomp, Dragonite, and Mega Altaria, and Fire-types like Volcarona and Charizard. Substitute beats some of Volcarona's common countermeasures such as status and priority users like Crawdaunt, Bisharp, Mega Medicham, and Mega Lopunny. With Quiver Dance, Volcarona gets the special bulk to become very hard to KO. Flamethrower is run over Fire Blast because it is easier to spam and fish for a burn, which makes Volcarona's Substitute harder to break. Bug Buzz is run along with Swarm to maximize damage output versus bulky Water- and Ground-types like Gastrodon, Hippowdon, and Garchomp, which can break Volcarona's Substitute repeatedly. 88 HP EVs prevent +1 Volcarona's Substitute from being broken by Heatran's Lava Plume, allowing it to use Heatran as setup fodder. 184 Speed EVs with a Timid nature make Volcarona faster than Adamant Mega Medicham, Modest Manaphy, and Jolly Excadrill unboosted and faster than Choice Scarf Landorus-T after boosting. 236 Special Attack EVs give Volcarona a good chance to OHKO Hippowdon and Garchomp at +1 and Gastrodon at +2 with Swarm and some prior damage. Leftovers recovers HP against weak, passive Pokemon like Ferrothorn and Amoonguss while setting up. Entry hazard removal is even more important because this set relies on Leftovers recovery and multiple Quiver Dance boosts to tank hits. Since Volcarona is mostly used as a mid- or late-game sweeper, it is also important to weaken checks beforehand. This can be done with entry hazards, which weaken Heatran, Volcanion, and Talonflame, or status, which cripples foes like Garchomp and Gastrodon. Volcarona sets up Substitute on Pokemon like Amoonguss, Ferrothorn, Tangrowth, Magnezone locked into Hidden Power Fire, and -2 Latios and Latias. At +1, it can continue setting up versus Lava Plume Heatran, Scald Alomomola, defensive Zapdos, and Clefable. Entry hazard setters like Excadrill are good teammates for wearing down Volcarona answers like Heatran, Volcanion, and Talonflame with Stealth Rock. Knock Off users such as Clefable, Serperior, and Mega Scizor can lure in these Fire-types, Assault Vest Tornadus-T, and Eviolite Chansey. Serperior can deal with Water-types and bait in Fire-types to cripple them with Glare, chip them with Leech Seed, or outright KO them with boosted Hidden Power. Gastrodon can importantly switch into Keldeo and chip foes with Scald and Toxic. It also can combat the Fire-type setup sweepers that threaten Volcarona like Mega Charizard X and Talonflame with Toxic and Clear Smog. Partners that can help break through Chansey include Tail Glow Manaphy, Mega Lopunny, Mega Medicham, Keldeo, and Breloom. Quiver Dance is the key move that lets Volcarona always be a scary factor. Its ability to self-boost shall not be missing on this set either, as it allows it to set up and sweep. Roost helps with longevity, as this Volcarona requires more time to set up effectively as well as to heal chip damage from the like of Mega Lopunny, Mega Scizor, and Landorus-T. Furthermore, it helps to mitigate Stealth Rock damage. Flamethrower threatens Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, and Bisharp as well as Grass-types like Serperior and Amoonguss. Giga Drain allows Volcarona to recover while hitting Water-types like Keldeo, Volcanion, and Rotom-W. Alternatively, Bug Buzz hits Psychic-types like Mega Latias and hits typical switch-ins like Tyranitar and Garchomp harder. 60 Speed EVs with a Timid nature allow Volcarona to outspeed Adamant Excadrill, and after two Quiver Dance boosts, it outspeeds Adamant Sand Rush Excadrill in sand. Furthermore, after a Quiver Dance, Volcarona is faster than Mega Lopunny and Tornadus-T. The rest of the EVs are put into bulk, allowing Volcarona to soft-check physical threats it is supposed to check like Mega Lopunny, Mega Metagross, and Weavile while threatening them back with a burn through Flame Body. It is worth nothing that Volcarona is an imperfect check to those and relies on its ability to burn them. Passho Berry allows it to take hits from Water-type threats like Keldeo, Volcanion, and Crawdaunt and potentially revenge kill them. An alternative spread is 248 HP / 100 Def / 160 Spe with a Timid nature, which allows Volcarona to outspeed Mega Alakazam at +1 as well as Excadrill and Adamant Mega Medicham unboosted. Bulky Volcarona should be used with caution. Its crippling weakness to Stealth Rock can limit switch in opportunities heavily. Furthermore, it can only check foes that threaten it, such as Weavile, Mega Metagross, and Mega Lopunny, it if it's already on the field and healthy. Ideally, Volcarona is brought in safely through a pivot on weak and unthreatening moves or after a Pokemon is KOed. This allows it easier setup opportunities. Before opting for a sweep, key checks like Talonflame, Garchomp, and sand core Pokemon like Tyranitar, Hippowdon, and Excadrill should be out of the way. This Volcarona works best against teams that have soft checks to it such as Fake Out Mega Lopunny and Assault Vest Tornadus-T or against teams whose strategy is to revenge kill Volcarona by the likes of Aqua Jet Crawdaunt or Azumarill, especially if Passho Berry is used as the item. Moreover, status users like Chansey, Alomomola, and Clefable should be weakened or KOed, since especially Toxic but also paralysis can cripple Volcarona and cut its sweep attempt short. This Volcarona fits best on bulky offensive and VoltTurn teams where it can function as a defensive check. Its Flame Body burns can enable its teammates, it can keep up pressure on the opposing team, and it can find good setup opportunities. Due its crippling weakness to Stealth Rock, it relies on its teammates to remove or prevent them. Excadrill with Rapid Spin and common Defog users like Zapdos and Latias make excellent partners. Mega Diancie can help too by keeping entry hazards off the field. Taunt users like Thundurus and Serperior can prevent the use of entry hazards while fitting well on the teams Volcarona usually finds itself on. Landorus-T can help against sand teams, switching into Tyranitar and Excadrill while delivering chip damage with Rocky Helmet and threatening them out. Thundurus and Keldeo threaten Garchomp with Hidden Power Ice or Water-type moves and Excadrill, Heatran, and Tyranitar with their Fighting-type moves. Hidden Power Ice can be used as a safer means of OHKOing bulky Ground-types like Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Gliscor. It also hits bulky Dragon-types like Mega Altaria and Dragonite harder. Fiery Dance can be used as a means of boosting while attacking; this is beneficial when faced with a Calm Mind sweeper like Clefable or Mega Latias. However, it is much less powerful than Fire Blast and is not as consistent as just using Quiver Dance. Life Orb Volcarona is an option that can be used to hit harder and sweep easier; however, its longevity is particularly bad given Volcarona's weakness to Stealth Rock. Unlike Timid Volcarona, +1 Modest Life Orb is able to surely OHKO Pokemon like Keldeo, Tyranitar, Rotom-W, Manaphy, Hippowdon, Gliscor, Gastrodon, and defensive Landorus-T. On hyper offense teams, Sitrus Berry can be a viable option if Stealth Rock is unable to be removed, giving Volcarona a slight boost in health to help it set up easier. Similarly, Passho Berry may allow Volcarona to set up more easily versus weak Water-types and reduce the likelihood of being revenge killed by Aqua Jet from Crawdaunt and Azumarill. Bulkier spreads with less Speed and Leftovers may also be used to increase Volcarona's longevity during a sweep. However, this increases Volcarona's chances of being outsped and severely damaged by Pokemon like Hydreigon and Excadrill while unboosted.
Volcarona (SM competitive strategy): Volcarona scatters its embers across the battlefield as one of the scariest sweepers in the OU tier thanks to its solid Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed, potent STAB combination, and access to the incredible Quiver Dance. Its solid coverage and item options enable it to tailor itself to its team's needs and overcome traditional answers. Its Speed stat enables it to outspeed most of the unboosted metagame and Choice Scarf Landorus-T after a Quiver Dance. Volcarona often finds setup opportunities against common Steel- and Fairy-types like Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, Magearna, and Clefable, and with Substitute + Swarm, it can potentially outplay and beat Chansey after enough Quiver Dance boosts. Additionally, Flame Body grants Volcarona a valuable role as a setup sweeper that can punish revenge killers like Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny, and it more easily handles Mega Mawile should it invest its EVs in physical bulk. However, its typing leaves it riddled with a nasty 4x weakness to Stealth Rock and weaknesses to common attacking types, such as Water and Flying. Volcarona also can't fit all of the coverage it wants in one set, as it will lose to specific Pokemon depending on the coverage move; it loses to Mega Tyranitar without Bug Buzz, can't do much to Heatran without Hidden Power Ground, and is walled by Toxapex without Psychic. Additionally, its poor Defense stat leaves it vulnerable to revenge killing attempts from priority users, such as Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, and Mega Pinsir, and it is outpaced by faster Pokemon, such as Choice Scarf Greninja, Hawlucha after activating Unburden, and weather sweepers like Sand Rush Excadrill and Mega Swampert under their weather, even after a Quiver Dance boost. As a result, it requires plenty of support, especially the removal of entry hazards, to truly flourish. Quiver Dance turns Volcarona into a dangerous wallbreaker and late-game sweeper. Volcarona's choice of Fire-type STAB move depends on whether it wants consistent accuracy and PP or more power; both of these moves torch Grass- and Steel-types like Serperior, Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Celesteela, while Fire Blast allows Volcarona to cleanly OHKO Choice Scarf Landorus-T and gives the highest possible chance to OHKO Gliscor and defensive Landorus-T at +1 after Stealth Rock. Bug Buzz threatens bulky Psychic-types like Mega Latias, Slowbro, and Cresselia, and it hits neutral targets like Garchomp for major damage. Giga Drain is Volcarona's strongest coverage option against Mega Diancie and Gastrodon and extends its longevity. Psychic smashes the likes of Toxapex and Kommo-o. Finally, Hidden Power Ground lets Volcarona pressure Heatran. The given Speed investment and a Timid nature ensure that Volcarona Speed ties against Pokemon like Mega Medicham and Mega Charizard Y. Volcarona is flexible with its item of choice. Buginium Z lets Volcarona deal massive damage with +1 Savage Spin-Out against neutral targets like OHKOing Manaphy from full HP and Seismitoad after Stealth Rock. If Volcarona is knocked into low HP, it can use an Aguav Berry to regain lost HP in a pinch and ensure that Greninja doesn't pick it off with Water Shuriken when it's boosted. Lum Berry lets Volcarona shrug off status attempts like Toxic from Gliscor and Heatran and Thunder Wave from Slowbro and Ferrothorn. Leftovers is an option in a similar manner to Aguav Berry to slowly recover HP, making Volcarona harder to chip down. Psychium Z should be used if Volcarona carries Psychic so that Shattered Psyche guarantees an OHKO on Toxapex. Firium Z turns Fire Blast into a one-time nuke and allows Volcarona to muscle past Chansey after prior chip damage. Lastly, Life Orb ensures a favorable chance to OHKO Clefable with +1 Fire Blast, and it synergizes well with Giga Drain to negate the recoil damage that Volcarona takes. Offensive Volcarona serves as a potent wallbreaker and a late-game cleaner, and it benefits from the removal of checks like Chansey before attempting to sweep. If it is used early in the game, it can bust open holes to soften checks like Heatran for its teammates to clean up later in the game. Volcarona despises entry hazards, as this will prevent it from starting its sweep, so it is recommended to keep hazards off the field before Volcarona can get ready to sweep. Volcarona often finds setup opportunities against a multitude of Pokemon, ranging from Grass- and Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Magearna, and Mega Scizor to Choice-locked Pokemon like Kartana and Tapu Lele. Volcarona must conserve its HP as much as possible, as taking chip damage decreases its setup opportunities later in the game and leaves it more susceptible to revenge killing attempts from Pokemon like Mega Lopunny. Therefore, the best methods of bringing Volcarona in safely are aggressive switches, pivot support from Volt Switch and U-turn, and switching in after a teammate is KOed. Volcarona must also be wary of Pokemon that can afflict it with status conditions, such as Toxic from Heatran, especially if it does not run Lum Berry to shrug them off. This Volcarona variant is a natural fit on offense, bulky offense, and hyper offense teams, which value its ability to clean weakened teams late-game. Strong wallbreakers like Mega Mawile, Kyurem-B, and Tapu Lele are fantastic partners for Volcarona, busting through annoying checks like Chansey and, depending on Volcarona's choice of coverage, Toxapex and Heatran. Additionally, Tapu Lele summons Psychic Terrain, powering up Volcarona's Psychic and preventing priority users like Ash-Greninja and Mega Lopunny from attempting to pick Volcarona off. Multiple forms of entry hazard prevention are highly recommended; on hyper offense teams, Volcarona can be paired with a lead like Mega Diancie, Taunt Mew, Excadrill, or Imprison Landorus-T with a Defogger like Serperior, while bulkier offense teams use a Defogger like Tapu Fini or Rotom-W with offensive variants of Mega Diancie or a secondary Defogger like Choice Scarf Landorus-T. Serperior utilizes Taunt to shut down Chansey, making it easier to wear it down with repeated attacks and Rocky Helmet chip damage; Tapu Fini handles Ash-Greninja and provides support with Misty Terrain, protecting Volcarona from status conditions and granting it safer setup opportunities; Rotom-W checks Mega Swampert and provides Volcarona a safe entry with Volt Switch; and Choice Scarf Landorus-T handles Mega Diancie and Mega Charizard X and brings Volcarona in safely with U-turn. Greninja is also a great partner for Volcarona, as Ash-Greninja overwhelms shared checks like Toxapex and benefits from Volcarona removing Grass-types like Ferrothorn and Tapu Bulu. Protean Greninja is also notable, as Fightinium Z variants can bait in and eliminate Chansey with All-Out Pummeling, and Groundium Z variants eliminate Toxapex with Tectonic Rage. Dragon Dance sweepers like Gyarados, Dragonite, and Mega Charizard X complement Volcarona very well, as they can overwhelm shared checks like Toxapex for the other to clean up later in the game. Fighting-type partners like Mega Medicham and Kommo-o form a splendid partnership with Volcarona, as it greatly appreciates the removal of Chansey, while Kommo-o uses its typing to handle Ash-Greninja. Kommonium Z variants of Kommo-o can also pressure Tapu Fini and Haze Toxapex with Taunt and force chip damage against them, and they benefit from the removal of Fairy-types, which block Clangorous Soulblaze and prevent Kommo-o from cleaning up late-game. Magearna is also a strong teammate for Volcarona, as Volcarona threatens Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Celesteela, and opposing Magearna. Cresselia grants crucial support with Lunar Dance to restore Volcarona back to full HP and remove any status ailments it has, allowing a second chance to sweep. Substitute allows Volcarona to dodge common status moves such as Toxic from Heatran, which Volcarona can potentially beat one-on-one if it is able to avoid a Magma Storm. It also prevents revenge killing options like Sand Rush Excadrill and Choice Scarf Greninja if it is able to keep its Substitute after getting a KO. Quiver Dance allows Volcarona's Substitute to become even more formidable with Special Defense boosts, with uninvested Heatran's Magma Storm failing to break it after two Quiver Dances. Bug Buzz is powered up by Swarm significantly, being able to OHKO Garchomp at +1 with a Swarm boost. 128 HP EVs, in combination with Leftovers, allow Volcarona to use Substitute five times from full health, while also avoiding its Substitute being broken by Toxapex's Scald, Heatran's Lava Plume, and Zapdos's Discharge after a Quiver Dance. Additionally, they allow Volcarona to survive a +1 Knock Off from Kartana from full HP. 184 Speed EVs let Volcarona to outpace maximum Speed Landorus-T. The rest of Volcarona's EVs are pooled into Special Attack, maximizing its offensive potential and allowing it to OHKO Naive Kyurem-B with a Swarm-boosted +1 Bug Buzz. Due to the nature of this set, which involves Volcarona sacrificing its own HP, it is advised to not bring Volcarona in early-game and to instead opt to wait for its checks to be whittled down. Volcarona can set up a Quiver Dance freely in front of common Grass- and Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Magearna; however, using Substitute first allows Volcarona to dodge status attempts such as Thunder Wave from Clefable and Ferrothorn and Toxic from Toxapex. When faced with a Pokemon that Volcarona can't outright OHKO with a non-Swarm Bug Buzz, it can repeatedly use Substitute to get into Swarm range. However, an unrevealed Substitute can be a lethal weapon, baiting Toxic from the likes of Heatran and Chansey as Volcarona sets up a surprise Substitute. Using this method, non-Taunt Heatran can be beaten one-on-one if Volcarona uses Quiver Dance as it comes in. Chansey is a much less straightforward battle, but Volcarona does have the potential to outplay even Toxic variants with the correct Substitute plays. This set is a great fit for hyper offense teams, being able to effortlessly clean up late-game against weakened teams. Entry hazard removal is essential, so pairing it with a Defog user that fits onto hyper offense like Landorus-T or Serperior is a good idea. Taunt Serperior is an especially great Defog user to partner Volcarona with, as it has the added benefit of being able to beat Chansey one-on-one. In addition to hazard removal, Volcarona appreciates a dedicated lead such as Taunt Mew, Imprison Landorus-T, or especially Mega Diancie being able to prevent opposing hazards on the opening turns. Another benefit of a dedicated lead is their consistency in setting up Stealth Rock, which chips down both Mega Charizard formes and Kyurem-B. Paralysis support from the likes of Thunder Wave Rotom-W and Glare Serperior is especially helpful to this variant, as Substitute allows Volcarona to take full advantage of potential full paralyses. Lunar Dance support from Cresselia gives Volcarona a second life, replenishing both its PP and the HP lost from the use of Substitute, which can allow Volcarona's Quiver Dance to outlast Haze's 48 PP. Quiver Dance turns Volcarona into a dangerous late-game cleaner. Bug Buzz shatters bulky Psychic-types like Slowbro, Mega Latias, Mew, and Cresselia. Volcarona can also swap out Bug Buzz for Hidden Power Ground or Psychic to pressure Heatran and Toxapex if its team struggles against them at the cost of worsening its matchup against Pokemon that it would otherwise break through, such as Greninja, Mega Latias, and Mega Tyranitar. Flamethrower roasts Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Celesteela. Finally, Roost keeps Volcarona healthy throughout the game, letting it defensively check the likes of Mega Mawile, Mega Scizor, and Kartana and continue threatening the aforementioned Pokemon. The given Speed investment allows Volcarona to outspeed Greninja after a boost, while the rest of the EVs are dumped into HP and Defense, enabling it to more easily check physical attackers like Mega Mawile, Mega Scizor, and Kartana and punish them with a chance to burn with Flame Body. Leftovers is recommended to provide Volcarona with extra longevity. Buginium Z allows +1 Volcarona to OHKO Mega Tyranitar with Savage Spin-Out, while Firium Z and Psychium Z let it OHKO Gliscor with Inferno Overdrive and Toxapex with Shattered Psyche after Stealth Rock. Additionally, all three Z-Crystals allow Volcarona to reduce the damage it takes from Knock Off. Alternatively, 136 Speed EVs and a Timid nature allow Volcarona to outspeed Jolly Kommo-o before a boost and Mega Alakazam at +1. However, not running a Bold nature worsens Volcarona's ability to check the aforementioned physical attackers. Bulky Volcarona functions best as a late-game cleaner and serves as a good defensive check against physical attackers like Mega Mawile, Mega Scizor, and Kartana, thanks to its increased bulk letting it take further advantage of Flame Body. Volcarona often finds setup opportunities against Grass- and Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Magearna and passive Pokemon like non-Thunder Wave Clefable, Mega Latias, and Cresselia. The battlefield must be cleared of Stealth Rock for Volcarona to be able to wall its main targets, meaning that keeping entry hazards off the field should be prioritized more than setting your own. Volcarona must be wary of status conditions at all times, especially Toxic, as it reduces its efficacy. Since this Volcarona set is completely walled by Toxic Chansey as well as Toxapex and Heatran, depending on Volcarona's coverage move, it must wait until they are dealt with before attempting to sweep. This Volcarona variant finds its home on bulkier teams ranging from bulky offense, balance, and stall, which enjoy its capability as a late-game cleaner and defensive utility with Flame Body. Volcarona appreciates wallbreakers like Mega Mawile and Mega Medicham breaking down problematic checks like Toxapex, Heatran, and Chansey. Multiple forms of entry hazard removal are highly recommended; on bulky offense teams, you can run a Defogger like Tapu Fini or Rotom-W with Mega Diancie or a secondary Defogger like Choice Scarf Landorus-T, while stall teams prefer Mega Sableye and a Defogger like Gliscor. Volcarona majorly benefits these archetypes by handling Mega Scizor and Mega Mawile for Mega Diancie and Mega Sableye. Choice Scarf Landorus-T acts as a solid revenge killer against the likes of opposing Mega Diancie and Mega Charizard X; Tapu Fini checks Ash-Greninja and summons Misty Terrain, shielding Volcarona from status conditions like poison and allowing much safer setup opportunities; Gliscor provides a solid answer to Heatran and can bring in Volcarona safely with U-turn. Tapu Bulu is another solid teammate for Volcarona, as it can handle Ash-Greninja and Mega Diancie and summon Grassy Terrain, providing Volcarona with extra longevity and reducing the damage taken from Earthquake, and in return, Volcarona can heavily punish checks like Mega Scizor. Volcarona also enjoys cleric support from partners like Clefable, Chansey, and Magearna, curing any status afflicted, such as paralysis from Serperior's Glare or Toxic from Seismitoad and Gastrodon. Additionally, the former two provide Wish support, improving its longevity and allowing it to conserve its Roost PP and switch into the likes of Mega Mawile more easily. Toxapex absorbs foes' Toxic Spikes and sets up its own, putting Pokemon like Ash-Greninja and Mega Diancie on a timer and easing the matchup against rain teams. Shed Shell variants can also switch into Heatran and Tapu Fini and remove their Leftovers with Knock Off. Fiery Dance is an alternative Fire-type option to have a random chance of raising Volcarona's Special Attack, but its lower Base Power makes it an inferior option compared to Flamethrower. Hidden Power Ice can be used over Hidden Power Ground to more consistently OHKO the likes of Gliscor, Landorus-T, Garchomp, and a chipped Dragonite. However, without Hidden Power Ground, Volcarona is left at the mercy of Heatran. A Modest nature is an option on offensive variants to maximize Volcarona's damage output to allow the highest possible chance to OHKO bulky Tornadus-T with a +1 Fire Blast without Stealth Rock. However, this leaves Volcarona outpaced and revenge killed by Choice Scarf Landorus-T.
Volcarona (SS competitive strategy): Volcarona is a dangerous sweeper in OU, using the excellent Quiver Dance to boost and sweep through teams. Flamethrower is generally the preferred Fire-type STAB move for its accuracy, but Fire Blast is a viable option, as its higher power allows Volcarona to OHKO Pokemon like Nasty Plot Tornadus-T, offensive Landorus-T, and, with Stealth Rock chip damage, Tapu Lele after a Quiver Dance boost. Bug Buzz provides a secondary STAB move that hits Tyranitar, Slowbro, and Slowking hard while being its best move against Garchomp, one of Volcarona's best counters. Psychic allows Volcarona to not be completely walled by Toxapex and hits Dragapult harder than any other common move, with +1 Psychic under Psychic Terrain having a chance to outright OHKO physically defensive Toxapex. Giga Drain allows Volcarona to threaten other walls like Gastrodon, Hippowdon, and Tapu Fini while allowing Volcarona to gain back crucial HP at the cost of letting Toxapex get free turns against it. Volcarona's main issue is that its easily shut down by many staples like specially defensive Garchomp, Blissey, and most notably Flash Fire Heatran, which completely shuts down Volcarona, making it an inconsistent sweeper. Offensive Quiver Dance Volcarona fits on offense teams that can overwhelm Volcarona's counters or use the threat of its sweep to make threats like Heatran, Dragonite, and Toxapex think twice before being used to answer its teammates. Tapu Lele appreciates Volcarona forcing Heatran to be conservative with answering it and being a great Melmetal and emergency Kartana answer, while Psychic Terrain boosts Volcarona's Psychic to hit Toxapex harder and allows Volcarona to avoid Urshifu-R's Aqua Jet. Choice Specs Tapu Lele is especially good for its extra breaking power against the slow teams that are more capable of packing Volcarona's counters such as Toxapex, Blissey, and specially defensive Garchomp. Swords Dance Garchomp acts as a more reliable sweeper and is one of the best answers to Heatran in OU while having a STAB Earthquake to break through Toxapex, Gastrodon, and Galarian Slowking and also potentially serving as a Stealth Rock setter. In return, Garchomp appreciates Volcarona's ability to threaten its checks like Rillaboom, Weavile, and Buzzwole, while Flame Body can potentially cripple the aforementioned Pokemon in a pinch. Dragapult can be a solid partner, serving as a check to Urshifu-R and putting pressure on Volcarona's defensive answers like Toxapex, Heatran, and Tyranitar, which are often tasked with being a team's Shadow Ball sponge, so that Volcarona can threaten to sweep if its shared checks with Dragapult get too low on HP. Spikes and Stealth Rock from lead Mew give Volcarona a path to break through even Heatran, with the entry hazard chip damage outpacing Leftovers recovery. Dragonite is yet another Dragon-type that pairs well with Volcarona, being a sweeper that fits excellently on the same offense and hyper offense teams that Volcarona does; Dragonite takes advantage of the special walls, most notably Heatran, that wall Volcarona, while Volcarona can take advantage of Dragonite's checks like Corviknight, Ferrothorn, and Clefable.
Great Tusk (SV competitive strategy): Behold, OU's premier entry hazard remover; leveraging its excellent stats, typing, and movepool, Great Tusk offers strong role compression. Ice Spinner complements Headlong Rush, allowing Great Tusk to greatly threaten the likes of Landorus-T, Dragonite, Gliscor, and Hydrapple. Rapid Spin clears hazards and takes advantage of Great Tusk's good matchup against setters such as Iron Treads, Glimmora, and Garganacl. The move also allows it to outspeed Dragapult, Zamazenta, and Darkrai to potentially enable late-game cleaning if its checks are weakened. Stealth Rock plays into its role compression further, freeing up teammates to run other options. Knock Off is a strong middle ground option that hits Air Balloon Gholdengo and Pecharunt for good damage on switch-in as well as removes Heavy-Duty Boots from checks such as Zapdos, Moltres, Alomomola, and Dondozo. It also generally makes good progress by removing various utility items like Leftovers and Rocky Helmet from Clefable, Corviknight, and opposing Great Tusk. Close Combat is a complementary STAB move that hits the likes of Ting-Lu, Hisuian Samurott, and Kyurem for super effective damage and does massive damage to Ogerpon-W, all of which aren't threatened by most of Great Tusk's moves. Head Smash is an interesting option that can hit Moltres and Zapdos hard, common switch-ins to it; similarly, Stone Edge is a viable and safer alternative, keeping Great Tusk healthy and hitting them without fearing Flame Body and Static at the cost of no longer guaranteeing the OHKO on Moltres and bulky Tornadus-T. Particularly on sun teams, Temper Flare grants a super effective coverage against would-be checks like Corviknight and Air Balloon Gholdengo, especially if they just switched into its Headlong Rush the previous turn. Heavy-Duty Boots improves its matchup against the entry hazards it's tasked with removing, while Rocky Helmet can punish physical attackers such as opposing Great Tusk, Ceruledge, and Kingambit. Booster Energy is a choice on more offensive teams that appreciate Great Tusk's wallbreaking niche more and don't switch around often where the boost gets wasted easily otherwise. Great Tusk isn't often the main Tera user, but in a pinch, it can utilize several beneficial Tera types to take a hit or defeat its usual checks. Tera Steel allows Great Tusk to flip many of its weaknesses to moves such as Hatterene and Iron Crown’s Psychic Noise, Iron Valiant and Enamorus's Moonblast, Ogerpon-W and Rillaboom's Power Whip and Wood Hammer, Zapdos's Hurricane, and Dragonite's Tera Blast Flying and Fairy. Tera Ice powers up Ice Spinner, letting it beat otherwise solid checks by 2HKOing Zapdos and Sinistcha as well as OHKOing Landorus-T through Intimidate and having good odds to do so against physically defensive Gliscor and Hydrapple. Tera Fire allows Great Tusk to avoid potential burns from Moltres's Flame Body and Will-O-Wisp from users like Darkrai and Dragapult. Either Tera types also grant Great Tusk a resistance to Ice-type moves from Kyurem and Weavile, with Tera Ice being even sturdier against the former due to the lack of Earth Power weakness. When utilizing Booster Energy, Tera Ground and Tera Fighting can both be run to bring Headlong Rush and Close Combat to absurd power levels, such as letting it OHKO even the bulkiest of Pecharunt sets and, with Terastallization, OHKO Ting-Lu and 2HKO Corviknight and Alomomola. However, Tera Ground can also be utilized on non-Booster Energy sets to secure a KO on the likes of Garganacl. Great Tusk fits on a myriad of offense and balance teams that appreciate the utility it provides. Physical setup sweepers such as Dragonite and Kingambit appreciate Great Tusk's support from the long-term chip damage of either Stealth Rock or Knock Off, making opposing Pokemon vulnerable to entry hazards; Great Tusk and these powerful physical attackers can potentially overwhelm or force their common checks, such as Pecharunt, Zapdos, and Zamazenta, to Terastallize. Spikes setters such as Glimmora, Hisuian Samurott, and Ting-Lu can form a strong pairing with Stealth Rock variants to accumulate large amounts of chip damage or be enabled by Knock Off variants . Glimmora can provide Toxic Spikes with its Toxic Debris while doubling as hazard control in a pinch. Hisuian Samurott checks spinblockers such as Dragapult and Gholdengo with its Ceaseless Edge. Ting-Lu walls special attackers, which Great Tusk is vulnerable to, and can run Stealth Rock to free up a moveslot for Great Tusk. Pivots in general appreciate Great Tusk's Rapid Spin support, especially hazard-prone ones like Ogerpon-W and Iron Crown. Ogerpon-W greatly threatens bulky Water-type foes such as Primarina, Dondozo, and Alomomola with its strong Power Whip, and with Water Absorb, its mere presence discourages Water-type attacks. Alomomola itself is a strong teammate that can provide Wish and Flip Turn support, allowing Great Tusk to utilize its hazard-removing utility more, and it checks most Water-types except Ogerpon-W. In return, Great Tusk can free up Alomomola to run an item other than Heavy-Duty Boots. Galarian Slowking and the aforementioned Iron Crown can patch up Great Tusk's vulnerability to special attacks by being good switch-ins to Fairy-types such as Enamorus and Clefable. In return, Great Tusk benefits from Galarian Slowking's Future Sight + Chilly Reception combination by threatening Future Sight switch-ins such as Iron Crown, Hisuian Samurott, and Gholdengo with its powerful attacks. Other Steel-types, such as Gholdengo and Scizor, that can check Kyurem and Iron Valiant are greatly appreciated as well. Pecharunt is a physically defensive pivot that checks Ogerpon-W and Rillaboom and appreciates Great Tusk's Headlong Rush to handle Steel-types such as Heatran and Kingambit. While Great Tusk is an excellent hazard remover, Ghost-types such as Gholdengo, Dragapult, and Pecharunt may require extra prediction to beat. Therefore, checks to them, such as Garganacl, Ting-Lu, and Kingambit, ease the need to predict. Great Tusk is a staple on Sticky Web teams, especially with Booster Energy, functioning as the team's hazard remover while being a potent threat under Sticky Web with its powerful Headlong Rush and coverage moves. Another offense-oriented archetype Great Tusk fits on is sun, where it gets the Protosynthesis Attack boost and provides Rapid Spin support for Torkoal or Ninetales. While seemingly redundant at first, Great Tusk pairs well with other hazard control, such as Cinderace and Hatterene, as it lets Great Tusk run other items like Rocky Helmet and Booster Energy without missing Heavy-Duty Boots too much. Cinderace can pivot to let Great Tusk get in more easily and check Corviknight for it. Hatterene's appeal is its advantageous matchup against Iron Defense Zamazenta and Deoxys-S, two of Great Tusk's worst matchups, and it offers potent utility with Nuzzle and Pain Split; in return, Great Tusk can handle Hatterene's checks. such as Gholdengo and Glimmora. Another strong Fairy-type that pairs well with Great Tusk is Enamorus, which revenge kills Dragapult and Kyurem and provides Healing Wish support, while Great Tusk checks Heatran and Galarian Slowking, as well as clearing Stealth Rock for Enamorus. Great Tusk presents itself as a premier defensive backbone with its solid defensive typing, access to Rapid Spin, and immense strength even without investment. Headlong Rush is used over Earthquake because its greater power lets Great Tusk OHKO Raging Bolt after Stealth Rock and OHKO both uninvested Gholdengo and bulky Cinderace while not being weakened by Rillaboom's Grassy Terrain. Ice Spinner lets it get past Flying-types like Dragonite, Gliscor, and Landorus-T while both threatening Rillaboom and removing its Grassy Terrain. Rapid Spin allows it to remove entry hazards for its teammates, and the Speed boost lets it scare out usually faster threats like Darkrai and Iron Crown. Stealth Rock is used for role compression, letting Great Tusk both set hazards as well as remove them from its own side. Knock Off, meanwhile, gets rid of items such as Heavy-Duty Boots and Leftovers on foes like Moltres and Clefable. It additionally threatens Ghost-types like Pecharunt, Air Balloon Gholdengo, and Dragapult, letting Great Tusk spin more consistently. Bulk Up can be used to handle boosting threats such as Kingambit and Swords Dance Gliscor while making Great Tusk a potential cleaner alongside Rapid Spin boosts. Rocky Helmet is the preferred item, as it wears down physical attackers like Kingambit, Zamazenta, and opposing Great Tusk while punishing U-turn from Cinderace and Corviknight. It also has the added benefit of breaking Dragonite's Multiscale upon contact, letting Great Tusk have an instant OHKO on Dragonite with Ice Spinner. Leftovers provides longevity and makes Great Tusk more able to take on Salt Cure Garganacl and Swords Dance Gliscor. Heavy-Duty Boots protects Great Tusk from repeated hazard damage from Spikes, status inflicted by Toxic Spikes, and the Speed drop from Sticky Webs. Tera Water is used to combat Hisuian Samurott and Cinderace, while Tera Steel lets Great Tusk resist Rillaboom's Grassy Glide and better take on Deoxys-S, Tornadus-T, and Clefable. Both Tera Water and Tera Steel help combat Ice-type attacks like Weavile's Triple Axel and Darkrai's Ice Beam. Other Tera types can be considered; Tera Ice strengthens Ice Spinner to OHKO specially defensive Gliscor, while Tera Fire gives a burn immunity for Cinderace and Moltres. Tera Ghost makes Great Tusk itself a spinblocker against opposing Great Tusk and Iron Treads while letting it more easily handle Zamazenta. Maximum HP and Speed investment are used to outspeed targets like Hisuian Samurott, Glimmora, and Gholdengo while making it be able to tank attacks from physical attackers from Kingambit easier. Great Tusk fits well on balance and bulky offense teams, which highly appreciate its defensive properties and utility while still remaining offensively potent. Offensive Pokemon weak to Spikes such as Ogerpon-W and Heatran enjoy Great Tusk's ability to remove entry hazards, letting them not be worn down in longer games. Ogerpon-W threatens Alomomola, Ting-Lu, Moltres, and Dondozo, while it appreciates Great Tusk switching into Kingambit. Heatran checks Rillaboom, Corviknight, and Gholdengo and uses Stealth Rock itself, letting Great Tusk run Knock Off. Additionally, both Ogerpon-W and Heatran appreciate Great Tusk checking Dragonite and switching in on non-IronPress Zamazenta. Ghost-types like Pecharunt, Air Balloon Gholdengo, and Dragapult make Great Tusk's job of removing hazards much harder, as they are able to threaten it out. Thus, strong teammates that can take out Ghost-types such as Choice Scarf Gholdengo, Hisuian Samurott, and Kingambit can be used to threaten them out, allowing Great Tusk to spin. Hisuian Samurott is a especially strong teammate, as it is able to both set Spikes and threaten Moltres and Gholdengo. Alomomola is a solid partner for Great Tusk, as Wish is able to keep Great Tusk healthy to check Gliscor and Garganacl longer. Assault Vest Alomomola and Galarian Slowking can take on Fairy-types like Enamorus, Primarina, and Iron Valiant. Hatterene and Cinderace are also nice to have as additional hazard removal, making teams nearly impervious to the hazards being set on their side of the field. Assault Vest Hatterene checks Kyurem, Deoxys-S, and can additionally help against Raging Bolt, which can greatly damage Great Tusk with its Dragon-type attacks, while Rocky Helmet Hatterene in combination with Rocky Helmet on Great Tusk can very easily wear down U-turn users like Landorus-T and Cinderace. In return, Great Tusk checks variants of Gholdengo, Heatran, and Kingambit. Cinderace, meanwhile, is able to pivot Great Tusk in with U-turn and threaten Rillaboom and Corviknight, while Great Tusk can take on Glimmora and Gliscor. The combination of Cinderace or Hatterene and Great Tusk can enable hazard-weak threats such as Assault Vest Tornadus-T and Kyurem and frees Dragonite from using Heavy-Duty Boots for Dragon Dance sets. Grass-types like Rillaboom and Dragon-types like Dragapult, Raging Bolt and the aformentioned Dragonite assist in taking on Ogerpon-W, with the first three also being able to deal with Dondozo. In return, Great Tusk can combat Steel-types like Kingambit and Scizor. Torkoal or Ninetales on sun teams are teammates that allow Great Tusk to get a Speed boost from Protosynthesis, which lets it outspeed threats like Dragapult and Darkrai without needing to use Rapid Spin. Torkoal can run Stealth Rock, which lets Great Tusk run Knock Off and lessens the burden on Torkoal to use Rapid Spin. Ninetales, on the other hand, is able to run Healing Wish, letting Great Tusk have a second chance to stay healthy against physical attackers. Common teammates on sun like Walking Wake and Raging Bolt can additionally aid against physical walls like Dondozo, Moltres, and Alomomola, while Great Tusk can remove hazards for them and threaten out special tanks like Galarian Slowking. Bulk Up Great Tusk is a deadly wincon, capable of taking games thanks to its great natural physical bulk, Speed, and power. Headlong Rush provides great power and is not affected by Grassy Terrain, but Earthquake doesn't drop Great Tusk's defenses, which can let it better check physical attackers. Ice Spinner ensures Great Tusk can hit Flying-types like Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Tornadus-T. The last moveslot has a lot of options. Rapid Spin still allows Great Tusk to spin entry hazards away for the rest of the team while also racking up Speed boosts, and at +1 Speed, Great Tusk outspeeds almost every unboosted threat like Dragapult and Zamazenta. Close Combat can overwhelm Corviknight and Skarmory better than Ice Spinner and smashes Grass-types like Rillaboom and Ogerpon-W. Knock Off provides utility thanks to its ability to remove items, which can force progress, not to mention that it smacks Ghost-types like Dragapult and Gholdengo, which normally uses Air Balloon. Last but not least, Taunt allows Great Tusk to prevent status moves from the likes of Dragapult, Corviknight, and Ting-Lu that will attempt to disrupt its ability to win. A quick mention goes to Stone Edge, which forms neutral coverag with its other attacks but can also help a lot against Moltres in particular. Head Smash is an alternative that can outright OHKO Moltres without needing a boost, but it's a contact move, so beware activating Flame Body. Maximum HP and Speed investment allow Booster Energy to give Great Tusk a Speed boost that lets it outspeed almost all of the unboosted metagame. Consider Leftovers and Rocky Helmet as alternatives only if Great Tusk has sun support, because sun will naturally activate Protosynthesis. Great Tusk also has a good variety of Tera types. Tera Ice boosts the power of Ice Spinner, letting Great Tusk OHKO Dragonite after a Bulk Up, and lets it get a Defense boost under snow. Tera Steel flips its common weaknesses into resistances, granting better matchups against Rillaboom, Deoxys-S, Iron Valiant, Tornadus-T, and Kyurem. Tera Ghost combines particularly well with Taunt; together, they stonewall IronPress Pokemon like the aforementioned Zamazenta, Corviknight, and Skarmory, allowing Great Tusk to take advantage of them, and its newfound weakness to Dark-types like Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott can be mitigated thanks to the Defense boosts Bulk Up provides. Tera Fire grants Great Tusk an immunity to Will-O-Wisp from common users like Cinderace and Dragapult and resistances to Grass-, Ice-, and Fairy-type attacks, letting Great Tusk safely set up against Cinderace and improving the matchup against the likes of Iron Valiant and Rillaboom. This set finds itself in both hyper offense and sun teams as a wincon that can snowball out of control pretty fast. The biggest weakness this set faces is Great Tusk's poor Special Defense, which lets special attackers like Iron Valiant, Tornadus-T, Enamorus, Deoxys-S, and many others beat it. Depending on the set, physical walls like Zamazenta, Corviknight, Alomomola, Moltres, and Dondozo have no problem taking it on. Rillaboom and Ogerpon-W are physical attackers that eviscerate Great Tusk even at +1 Defense. Dragonite is a great partner that can threaten all of these special attackers thanks to its strong priority move. These two can potentially beat each other's checks, with Dragonite having tools like Encore for status moves like Thunder Wave on Clefable and Stealth Rock on Ting-Lu and coverage to beat Great Tusk checks like Zamazenta and Corviknight. In return, Great Tusk can do the same to Dragonite checks with Stone Edge for Moltres and Taunt for Dondozo. Special attackers like Deoxys-S, Iron Moth, and Gholdengo can help beat targets like Corviknight and Zamazenta. The former can beat Moltres and provides Knock Off, dual screens, and entry hazards that allow Great Tusk to set up and sweep. Iron Moth can beat Rillaboom, while Gholdengo can beat Clefable. Great Tusk provides help to these special attackers by breaking through special walls like Blissey, Ting-Lu, and Galarian Slowking. If running sun, Torkoal is also a must because of its access to Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin, which can help alleviate the need for Rapid Spin on Great Tusk. Venusaur benefits from Great Tusk inviting in Grass- and Fairy-types that give it free entry and setup, vaporizing them with Sludge Bomb. Walking Wake can break through teams, with Hydro Steam blasting Pokemon that don't resist Water and Flamethrower dealing with Pokemon that do resist Water like Rillaboom and Ogerpon-W, allowing Great Tusk to sweep. When running hyper offense, Alolan Ninetales is an amazing partner thanks to its Aurora Veil giving Great Tusk more chances to set up. Another good partner is an offensive Stealth Rock user like Glimmora or Ting-Lu whose hazards can be maintained through offensive pressure.
Lilligant (XY competitive strategy): Lilligant is able to effectively utilize one of the best boosting moves in the game, Quiver Dance. This is complemented by its access to Sleep Powder, which can ease setup and shut down potential threats. Lilligant is also one of the few setup sweepers in the tier that can reliably switch into bulky Water-types. Unfortunately, Lilligant has limited coverage and thus must rely on Hidden Power and Nature Power. Lilligant's poor defensive typing leaves it very vulnerable to Ice-, Flying-, Poison-, and Fire-types; Scyther, Vileplume, and Magmortar are all quite common in NU. Quiver Dance boosts Lilligant's Special Attack, Special Defense and Speed in one fell swoop. Giga Drain is used as a consistent STAB move that has the additional benefit of healing Lilligant. Hidden Power Rock primarily targets Fire- and Flying-types such as Charizard, Pyroar, Scyther, and Xatu. Hidden Power Fire hits Grass-, Steel-, and Bug-types such as Ferroseed, Abomasnow, Klinklang, and Scyther. Hidden Power Ice is an option to nail bulky Grass-types such as Vileplume and bulky Flying-types such as Xatu in one moveslot without reducing Lilligant's speed IV. Sleep Powder eases setup and shuts down foes that are slower than Lilligant. Life Orb is used to further amplify Lilligant's already high damage output. A Yache Berry is also an option that prevents Lilligant from being revenge killed by Abomasnow and Piloswine's Ice Shard. Chlorophyll grants Lilligant a better matchup against occasional sun teams. 252 EVs are placed in Special Attack to maximize Lilligant's power. Maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Lilligant to outspeed threats such as positive-natured Pinsir and Mesprit and neutral-natured Kangaskhan and Zangoose before boosting, as well as to Speed tie Jolly variants of the latter two Pokemon, if not running Hidden Power Rock or Fire. Lum Berry acts as a safety net against annoying status conditions such as poison and paralysis and allows Lilligant to switch into Water-types more safely, most of which carry Scald. Players should only attempt to sweep once Lilligant's checks and counters have been weakened or eliminated, otherwise Lilligant may be forced out regardless. It should also be noted that Lilligant needs two boosts to outspeed some Choice Scarf users such as Haunter, Scyther, and Rotom. Players should switch Lilligant into bulky Water- and Ground-types such as Quagsire and Rhydon, as Lilligant resist their STAB moves. However, it cannot safely switch into the latter's Rock Blast and Megahorn. Try to bring Lilligant in on predicted switches, as Lilligant does not like taking unnecessary damage. Players should also not use Sleep Powder recklessly, as it has poor accuracy and grants free switches to Pokemon such as Magmortar and Xatu. Try to predict the opponent's switches into Lilligant's counters, and use Sleep Powder to make it easier to set up. Lilligant can use Sleep Powder early-game to support its teammates or use it late-game when it will attempt to sweep. Players should predict when their opponent will send in certain Pokemon as sleep fodder. This can be accomplished in Team Preview by looking for the least-useful Pokemon on the opponent's team in its current matchup, as well as mid-battle by looking for weakened Pokemon on the opponent's team. If Lilligant is not your primary sweeper, it can be used to poke holes in the opposing team to support its teammates. Water-types such as Samurott, Kabutops, and Lanturn can benefit Lilligant, as they can dispatch Fire-types such as Magmortar and Pyroar for it. Entry hazards can also greatly aid Lilligant by weakening its checks and counters; good setters include Carracosta, Garbodor, and Archeops. Carracosta in particular can handle Fire-, Flying-, and Ice-types for Lilligant, while Lilligant can deal with Ground- and Electric-types for it. Entry hazards can also pick up crucial KOs for Lilligant that it cannot achieve without them. For instance, Stealth Rock guarantees a 2HKO on Malamar with +1 Life Orb-boosted Giga Drain after Leftovers recovery. Wallbreakers such as Kangaskhan, Aurorus, and Tauros can greatly benefit Lilligant, as they can weaken its checks and counters with their massive offensive presence. Lastly, Fighting-types such as Hariyama and Primeape make good partners, as they can get rid of Steel-types such as Klinklang and Mawile as well as Bouffalant, one of the best counters to Lilligant. Hariyama is a great partner in particular, as it can handle Ice- and Fire-types for Lilligant. Primeape and Hariyama can also carry coverage moves such as Earthquake to weaken Poison-types such as Garbodor and Muk. Leaf Storm is Lilligant's strongest move; its high damage output makes Lilligant an efficient revenge killer. Hidden Power Rock allows Lilligant to KO a bunch of Pokemon that otherwise would wall it completely, like Scyther and Vivillon. Giga Drain is Lilligant's secondary STAB move, making it able to reliably pick off weakened targets without having to fear a miss, as well as increasing Lilligant's longevity. Sleep Powder can be used to avoid getting Pursuit trapped by Skuntank, for example, and is used to create free turns for teammates. Healing Wish gives Lilligant the ability to support the rest of its team by completely healing them up when needed. Since Choice Scarf Lilligant outpaces almost the entire metagame, this can often be a quite reliable backup check to many major threats that may otherwise get out of hand. Petal Dance is an alternative over Giga Drain to give Lilligant the ability to pick between a one-off nuke in Leaf Storm and a strong cleaning move to use when Pokemon that resist Grass have been weakened and Lilligant has a potential chance to sweep late-game. However, it has several drawbacks such as making contact and preventing Lilligant from switching out, which makes it easy to be revenge killed by a majority of Pokemon that can survive multiple Petal Dances, such as Garbodor and Skuntank. When you are running Petal Dance, Own Tempo is the preferred ability to avoid getting confused and to keep spamming Petal Dance without any additional drawbacks. Lastly, Hidden Power Fire can be used over either Giga Drain or Hidden Power Rock to hit common Pokemon that resist Grass like Ferroseed, Vileplume, and other Lilligant. Running Hidden Power Fire does have some drawbacks, however; being outsped by +2 Combusken and Omastar and not being able to revenge kill Vivillon with a Quiver Dance under its belt might be crucial in some matches. Lilligant, while equipped with a Choice Scarf, is able to outpace the entire unboosted metagame including major threats like Archeops and Tauros. Maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Lilligant to outspeed Vivillon after it gets up a Quiver Dance, as well as various other threats like Swellow and Floatzel, which can otherwise KO it when it is slightly weakened. Maximum Special Attack investment maximizes Lilligant's offensive power, making it a scary threat that is able to revenge kill a bunch of offensive Pokemon when slightly weakened like Floatzel, Archeops, and Swellow, depending on the chosen move. When you run Petal Dance, however, Own Tempo is the preferred ability, as it allows Lilligant to endlessly spam it, not having to fear confusion. Lilligant should mostly be used as a revenge killer, as its already high Speed combined with a Choice Scarf allows it to effectively pick off faster targets such as Archeops, Floatzel, and Tauros when they are weakened slightly. Lilligant should sometimes be wary of using Leaf Storm or Giga Drain, as it allows free setup for Pokemon like Scyther and Vivillon, which both don't take much damage from it but are heavily dented if not OHKOed by Hidden Power Rock. Sleep Powder can be used versus targets that Lilligant can't deal with by using its own attacks, such as Pyroar, Garbodor, and Skuntank. If Lilligant isn't as useful in the match anymore and a weakened teammate needs some support, use Healing Wish. Make sure to carefully think through whether or not Lilligant's high Speed tier is still necessary to secure a victory. As Lilligant struggles to deal with bulky Poison-types such as Garbodor and Skuntank, Psychic-types like Mesprit and bulky Ground-types like Rhydon and Steelix are great partners for Lilligant; they can handle the majority of checks to Lilligant as well as set up Stealth Rock to heavily dent most Pokemon that resist Grass like Magmortar and Scyther. Setup sweepers such as Samurott and Barbaracle have great synergy with Lilligant, as they can wear down each other's checks quite easily, offer decent synergy, and heavily appreciate the Healing Wish support Lilligant offers. Pokemon that tend to wear themselves down like Zangoose, Guts Swellow, and Abomasnow heavily appreciate Lilligant's ability to support them with Healing Wish. Besides that, they also offer decent synergy type-wise, wearing down each other's checks and counters. All hazard support from Pokemon like Garbodor is also heavily appreciated, as it helps out with weakening some of Lilligant's checks such as Skuntank and Magmortar. Regirock and Rhydon have great type synergy with Lilligant, most importantly being hard checks to Scyther, and can also set up Stealth Rock to help Lilligant wear down bulkier Grass-resistant Pokemon such as Weezing and Magmortar. Lanturn is another great teammate for Choice Scarf Lilligant, as it deals with most Fire-types relatively well, can Volt Switch out to bring Lilligant in safely, and heavily appreciates Lilligant's ability to check Gastrodon, as well as Lilligant's Healing Wish. Hidden Power Ground can be used to hit Skuntank, Garbodor, Fire-types, as well as the majority of Steel-types, while Hidden Power Rock can target Scyther, Fire-types, and Flying-types. Leech Seed grants Lilligant added recovery while wearing down its foes, but Lilligant loses out on coverage. Synthesis and Heal Bell lend Lilligant a more supportive role. Substitute can be used to ease prediction and block status, but again, Lilligant loses out on coverage. Quiver Dance + Petal Dance with Own Tempo is a viable option, but Petal Dance's lock-in effect might give the opponent a chance to revenge kill it. Yache Berry is also an option to take a hit from Ice-types such as Jynx and retaliate, but its usage is quite situational.
Lilligant (SM competitive strategy): Lilligant's access to Quiver Dance and Sleep Powder, decent Special Attack, and Speed are offset by its mediocre bulk, movepool, and typing. Lilligant struggles to set up, and even when it does, common Pokemon such as Togedemaru, Dhelmise, Decidueye, and Alolan Exeggutor can deal with it. Moreover, it's extremely prediction reliant, as Breakneck Blitz can only be used once, leaving it susceptible to threats like Incineroar if used at the wrong time. As a Quiver Dance user, it suffers competition from Vivillon, which has a better offensive movepool and typing, giving it more setup opportunities against threats like Passimian locked into Close Combat. Lastly, it is hard to justify over other, more reliable Grass-types like Sceptile, which is faster and more immediately threatening due to its movepool and ability to run a boosting item, and Whimsicott, which has a better typing, is faster, and has numerous utility options. With this set, Lilligant acts as a setup sweeper thanks to Quiver Dance and Sleep Powder, although its typing doesn't give it a lot of setup opportunities, while its shallow movepool and typing mean that it often finds itself forced out by threats like Incineroar, Alolan Exeggutor, Sigilyph, and Weezing, although they don't appreciate taking a boosted Breakneck Blitz. Decidueye and Dhelmise are especially problematic, as they completely wall it. Moreover, this set is better done by Vivillon, which has a better offensive typing and movepool while still having access to Sleep Powder, letting it bypass checks more reliably.
Lilligant (SS competitive strategy): Lilligant is a niche Quiver Dance sweeper that capitalizes on Sleep Powder generating one or two free turns to boost and break through the opposing team. Pollen Puff nails opposing Grass-types such as Appletun, Exeggutor, and Tangela. Life Orb gives Lilligant more firepower, which it desperately needs; however, Leftovers provides Lilligant with passive recovery, which can help it acquire Quiver Dance boosts against more passive foes such as Galarian Stunfisk. While this set isn't intended to take advantage of Chlorophyll, Lilligant provides some counterplay versus opposing sun sweepers, notably Shiftry. Fighting-types such as Sawk and Gurdurr do a fantastic job of scaring out Klinklang, one of Lilligant's biggest checks, and can remove Heavy-Duty Boots from Flying-types such as Articuno and Altaria. Similarly, Ice-types such as Jynx and Froslass force out opposing Flying-types and can help Lilligant chip away at Klinklang and Fire-types like Rapidash and Ninetales. Both examples of offensive partners, however, result in overlapping weaknesses, limiting Lilligant's use to only offensive teams. Entry hazard setters such as Uxie, Qwilfish, and Froslass can provide Lilligant with the necessary chip damage needed to whittle down foes it struggles against. Pokemon such as Silvally-Dark and Choice Scarf Kabutops can also offensively pressure common Defog users for Lilligant. Lilligant can utilize Choice Specs to dish out strong Petal Dances without the fear of confusion due to Own Tempo. Choice Specs Lilligant also has a free moveslot for Healing Wish, one of the best support moves in the game. However, Lilligant still struggles to break through the same Grass-resistant Pokemon it did before and cannot incapacitate them with sleep.
Archeops (XY competitive strategy): With its gargantuan mixed attacking stats and a blazing Speed that lets it outspeed almost all of the unboosted metagame, Archeops has established itself as one of the best Pokemon in the tier. Its offensive stats are matched with an equally strong offensive movepool, with a wide variety of both special and physical moves that allow Archeops to potentially beat almost every one of its counters. In particular, STAB Acrobatics is one of the most spammable and powerful attacks in the tier, though it comes at the price of not being able to viably run an item. Archeops's typing is even decent defensively, giving it resistances to Normal-, Fire-, Bug-, and Flying-type moves, and its access to reliable recovery in Roost and support moves in Taunt and Defog gives Archeops both defensive and supportive utility. While these would all be traits of an easily OverUsed or even Ubers Pokemon, Archeops's wings are clipped by Defeatist, which makes Archeops virtually useless when it's below half HP. A Stealth Rock weakness and low defenses don't do Archeops any favors in compensating for its ability, either. In addition, very common Pokemon such as Rhydon, Steelix, and Regirock check Archeops with ease if it lacks the appropriate coverage move. Acrobatics is a powerful Flying-type STAB move and Archeops's most spammable move. Stone Edge targets most Pokemon that resist Flying-type attacks, dealing great damage against Rotom and Lanturn, as well as notably OHKOing Rotom-S, Xatu, Pelipper, Mantine, bulky Charizard, and opposing Archeops. Earth Power primarily targets Steel-types and takes advantage of the low Special Defense typical of common Archeops switch-ins, such as Mawile, Garbodor, Omastar, Rock Polish Rhydon, and most notably Steelix. Roost lets Archeops recover health on forced switches and against Pokemon that can't do much to it to keep it out of Defeatist range, but it typically doesn't get too many opportunities to use it. Heat Wave is also an option over Earth Power that targets Ferroseed, which walls this set otherwise, as well as still hit the likes of Steelix and Mawile. Hidden Power Grass nails bulky Rock-, Ground-, and Water-types such as Rhydon, Carracosta, and Quagsire for, most of the time, 4x super effective damage. Focus Blast can be used to hit almost all of Hidden Power Grass's targets except for Quagsire for about the same damage, with the bonus of beating Steelix, Regirock, Ferroseed, and Miltank, but its low accuracy makes it rather unreliable. Aqua Tail is another option to 2HKO Rhydon as well as hitting opposing Archeops. Knock Off nails Rotom, does good damage to Musharna, and removes Leftovers and Eviolite from the likes of Regirock and Rhydon, respectively, making them significantly easier to wear down and beat, notably letting Archeops 2HKO tank Rhydon with Hidden Power Grass or Focus Blast. Maximum Speed investment and a Hasty nature let Archeops outspeed the majority of the tier and Speed tie with other base 110 Speed Pokemon such as Tauros while not weakening any of its moves. The rest of the EVs are placed into Attack in order to give Acrobatics and Stone Edge a powerful punch. Archeops can opt to run maximum Special Attack investment in order to 2HKO standard tank Rhydon with Hidden Power Grass or Focus Blast and Regirock with Focus Blast, and it can still hit hard physically due to its naturally high Attack and the high Base Power of Acrobatics. No item is used as to double Acrobatics's power. Because of Archeops's frailty, its Stealth Rock weakness, and the threat of getting down to Defeatist range, it should rarely switch into even resisted hits, especially if it doesn't have Roost. Generally, it's best to bring Archeops in on a teammate's U-turn or Volt Switch on a predicted switch, preventing it from taking any damage. Once in, Acrobatics is usually Archeops's most spammable move due to its high Base Power and great neutral coverage, and even if the opponent has a Pokemon that resists Flying such as Klinklang or Barbaracle, Archeops can simply go for the appropriate coverage move in the next turn and KO it. If the opponent has a bulky Rock-type or Steel-type such as Omastar, Rhydon, or Steelix, it's best to go for Earth Power as they switch in in order to 3HKO or 2HKO them. If one of Archeops's counters such as Musharna, Regirock, or Miltank (the latter two are counters only if it lacks Focus Blast, though) is on the opposing team, double switch into a teammate that threatens them in order to maintain momentum and potentially make them take entry hazard damage. Roost off damage on forced switches to stay out of Defeatist range. Roost is also useful to evade a Sucker Punch that could otherwise KO Archeops. Water-, Grass-, and Fighting-type partners, such as Samurott, Torterra, and Primeape, handle the Rock-, Water-, and, to a lesser extent, Steel-types that check Archeops. Generally speaking, Archeops appreciates special wallbreakers, such as Life Orb Haunter and Magmortar, that can pressure physically bulky Pokemon. Entry hazard control from the likes of Xatu, Prinplup, Shiftry, and Hitmonchan is recommended, as not only is it weak to Stealth Rock, but it also becomes useless in Defeatist range; Archeops doesn't need this support, however, as it is generally found on offensive teams. Pokemon such as Garbodor or Cacturne can stack up (Toxic) Spikes to help Archeops wear down its checks and counters. Sweepers such as Swords Dance Samurott, Swords Dance Mawile, and Tauros love Archeops's ability to lure Rock- and Steel-types and Quagsire and weaken them with its wide coverage so that they can sweep late-game. U-turn and Volt Switch support from the likes of Scyther, Rotom, and Lanturn helps Archeops get in safely. Acrobatics is a powerful Flying-type STAB move and has good neutral coverage by itself. Roost provides Archeops with reliable recovery and allows it to remain healthy throughout the match. Taunt prevents foes from using support moves, setting up, and healing themselves, allowing Archeops to beat Pokemon it otherwise wouldn't such as Mega Audino and Weezing. Earthquake hits Steel- and Electric-types that resist Acrobatics such as Mawile and Lanturn and lets Archeops get at least some damage on bulky Rock-types, in addition to hitting Garbodor without making contact. Defog supports the team by getting rid of entry hazards, and while Archeops has a terrible matchup against most Stealth Rock setters, it handles Garbodor pretty well. U-turn allows Archeops to pivot out of its switch-ins and gain momentum. Maximum HP investment allows Archeops to take both physical and special hits better, and maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature allow it to outspeed common Pokemon it checks such as Pyroar and Speed tie with the likes of Tauros and Jumpluff. No item is used as to maximize the power of Acrobatics. Archeops can come in on the Normal-, Fire-, Flying-, and Flying-types it checks throughout the game, but it will often find itself taking around 50% damage from these Pokemon. Because of this, Archeops often wants to use Roost after switching in, particularly if it took Stealth Rock damage. If Archeops didn't take too much damage, however, it can spam Acrobatics to deal good damage against anything that doesn't resist it. However, if there is a bulky Rock-type on the opposing team, Archeops can either Taunt it as it comes in to prevent it from setting up Stealth Rock or switch to a teammate that threatens it. Other typical answers to Archeops lose to this set, however, as Pokemon such as Musharna, Seismic Toss Miltank, Weezing, and Mega Audino without Surf can't inflict status on Archeops, set up, or recover HP because of Taunt and can't 2HKO Archeops with their unboosted attacking options. Defog Archeops can switch into (Toxic) Spikes setters such as Garbodor and Weezing, Defog away their entry hazards, and Taunt them, though it has to play around Will-O-Wisp in the latter's case and hates getting poisoned by Gunk Shot and Sludge Bomb; moreover, keep in mind that Defog Archeops has a uniformly terrible matchup against most Stealth Rock setters. BulkyCheops fits on most playstyles as a glue Pokemon that checks Fire-, Normal-, and Flying-types, stallbreaks, and even removes entry hazards while still being extremely fast and hitting hard. Archeops appreciates Water-, Ground-, and Fighting-type partners, such as Samurott, Torterra, and Hariyama, that can check and beat the Rock- and, to a lesser extent, Steel-types that handle Archeops. Grass- and Electric-types such as Torterra, Vileplume, and Lanturn put a stop to the Water- and Electric-types that beat Archeops. Pokemon such as Hariyama and Assault Vest Magmortar that check the Ice-types Archeops struggles with are also decent partners. Although it's not necessary by any means, entry hazard control from the likes of Shiftry and Prinplup helps Archeops check foes with greater ease, as it won't have to take Stealth Rock damage when coming in. Stealth Rock is necessary for all teams, and Archeops is a decent setter for hyper offensive ones due to its excellent Speed and matchup versus Xatu. Taunt prevents the foe from setting up entry hazards, weather, or a boosting move. Endeavor allows Archeops to essentially eliminate a foe by bringing it down to 1 HP once its Focus Sash is broken. Head Smash allows Archeops to smash Xatu and to KO itself to prevent the foe from using Rapid Spin or Defog. Maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature are necessary to outspeed as much as possible and to guarantee Archeops at least two turns on the field, and maximum Attack investment makes Head Smash even more powerful. Focus Sash lets Archeops survive any non-multi-hit move if it hasn't taken any prior damage. Archeops should typically lead in order to avoid getting its Focus Sash broken and set up Stealth Rock as early as possible. In most scenarios, Archeops should prioritize setting Stealth Rock first. If the opponent leads off with an entry hazard setter of their own or a setup sweeper, Archeops can Taunt them. A lot of 50/50s are created when Archeops is up against Pokemon with multi-hit moves such as Rhydon, Crustle, and Klinklang. In the former two cases, it's generally best to go for Stealth Rock rather than to Taunt them unless the cost of Stealth Rock on Archeops's side is too high. Klinklang's case is trickier, however; if Archeops's team has an answer to it, it's generally safe to set up Stealth Rock, but if the team doesn't, it might be better for Archeops to Taunt Klinklang to prevent it from sweeping or creating huge holes in Archeops's team right after the first turn. After Archeops has been knocked down to its Focus Sash, go for Endeavor to effectively KO the foe by bringing it down to 1 HP. On the other hand, if Archeops is up against a spinner or Defogger, it should use Head Smash to KO itself with recoil to prevent it from successfully using Rapid Spin or Defog. If the opponent has Xatu but nothing that can revenge kill Archeops with its Focus Sash broken, nail Xatu with Head Smash on the predicted switch to prevent it from bouncing back Stealth Rock; if the opponent does have a priority attacker or a Pokemon that outspeeds Archeops, it might be best to lead with something else, or you can risk the 50/50 if necessary. Judging whether Xatu checks something important on Archeops's team or if its only role in the match is to bounce back Stealth Rock can ease prediction. Archeops fits best on hyper offensive teams that want a fast Stealth Rock lead that can Taunt opposing leads. Archeops doesn't need much support, so it can be paired with just about any other offensive Pokemon, such as Swords Dance Samurott and Lilligant. An answer to Klinklang, such as Poliwrath or Steelix, is appreciated, as not only does Klinklang play obnoxious mind games with Archeops, but it also is one of the biggest threats to the fast, frail offensive teams that Archeops finds a home on. A spinblocker or Defog deterrent, such as Mismagius or Pawniard, respectively, prevents spinners and Defoggers from getting rid of Archeops's Stealth Rock. Pursuit trappers such as Skuntank and Liepard can prevent Archeops from having to play mind games with Xatu, but this isn't always necessary. A Choice Band set with Stone Edge / Earthquake / U-turn / Knock Off or Aerial Ace gives Archeops ridiculous power, 2HKOing stupidly bulky Pokemon such as Prinplup, and Archeops even has Switcheroo to cripple walls and be able to use its coverage afterwards. A Life Orb also gives a significant power boost while allowing Archeops to switch moves, use Roost, and even go mixed, but the recoil will eventually bring Archeops down to Defeatist range, especially if it switches into Stealth Rock. Carrying an item in general, however, is a pretty subpar option on Archeops, as STAB Acrobatics is just too good to give up. Taunt on offensive Archeops sets allows it to get past all of non-Surf Mega Audino, Musharna, Weezing, and Seismic Toss Miltank, but its coverage moves are typically more useful, and Archeops is forced to run Roost alongside Taunt. BulkyCheops can set up Stealth Rock if nothing else on its team can. Tailwind is an option to support its teammates, with Archeops usually sacrificing itself to set Tailwind up when it isn't needed anymore to let a slower teammate outspeed the foe. Iron Tail can also work on certain teams to 3HKO Mega Audino, but has very little use outside of that.
Archeops (SM competitive strategy): Archeops takes one page from lead Aerodactyl and another page from Lycanroc but fails to stand out itself as a Stealth Rock suicide lead. Despite having the unique combination of Head Smash + Endeavor, factors such as Defeatist, a comparatively worse Speed tier than its competition, and dedicated leads being a relatively unimportant role in the metagame prevent Archeops from establishing itself in the NU metagame. Archeops's focus is preventing opposing entry hazards from being laid while laying and keeping up Stealth Rock of its own with Taunt and Head Smash. Head Smash has the added benefit of preventing Rapid Spin and Defog if Archeops is at one HP. However, its lower Speed tier prevents it from outspeeding relevant threats such as Sceptile and Whimsicott, whereas Aerodactyl can.
Archeops (SS competitive strategy): Archeops is a very threatening Pokemon in the PU tier thanks to its fantastic offensive stats, vivid movepool, and great Speed tier. Earthquake and Stone Edge give Archeops near-perfect coverage that leaves its switch-ins restricted to a marginal few, such as Claydol, Palossand, and Regirock. Archeops also has a decent defensive typing, allowing it to check foes like Charizard in a pinch; however, it is held back by its poor defensive stats. It doesn't want to be the sole defensive switch-in to any foe, preferring to pivot in on resisted attacks such as Centiskorch's Fire Lash. Defeatist is a dreadful ability that basically makes Archeops useless if it drops below 50%, further hindering its ability to hard switch into foes like Galarian Articuno well and making it very dependent on both Heavy-Duty Boots and Roost. Meteor Beam in tandem with Power Herb allows Archeops to boost its Special Attack while nailing common switch-ins such as Weezing and Regirock. Air Slash 2HKOes Sandslash as well as Eldegoss after a Meteor Beam boost. Earth Power defeats Steel-type Pokemon such as non-Choice Scarf Togedemaru, Aggron, and Doublade. Archeops is a great offensive entry hazard setter, and it provides defensive utility against foes such as Charizard. Heat Wave can be used as well to defeat Ferroseed and Frosmoth. Roost is an alternative to both Stealth Rock and Heat Wave for Archeops to stay out of Defeatist range. Teammates such as Frosmoth and Ribombee appreciate the damage Archeops provides against bulky Pokemon such as Gigalith and Aggron; Frosmoth is able to defeat Ground-types that Archeops struggles against, such as Sandaconda. Other teammates such as Doublade can help switch into foes that Archeops is forced out by, such as opposing Ribombee. U-turn is the preferred option in the third slot to generate momentum against foes like Palossand. Dual Wingbeat is an option that significantly pressures Grass-types like Eldegoss and Tangela as well as picking off offensive Grass- and Fighting-types like Trevenant and Gallade more reliably. Roost is necessary to offset HP loss that activates Defeatist. Heavy-Duty Boots is another important tool that prevents Archeops's Stealth Rock weakness from wearing it down into Defeatist range. Archeops fits best on offensive teams, and it should primarily be brought in via safe switches in to wallbreak or revenge kill threats such as Galarian Articuno and Magmortar, as its lack of defensive utility prevents it from getting many free turns otherwise. For this reason, partners with pivoting moves like Ribombee and Whimsicott work well with Archeops, and they form a pivot core if Archeops is using U-turn. Lanturn is another partner that can bring Archeops in safely, and it can absorb both Water- and Electric-type attacks aimed at Archeops as well as provide an additional check to Togedemaru. Froslass can help pressure many of Archeops's checks, like Palossand and Rhydon, thanks to its access to Spikes, notably bringing walls like Jellicent into 2HKO range of Stone Edge. Pokemon like Sneasel and Choice Specs Ribombee are problematic foes for Archeops, as they are faster and threaten to KO it, so Ferroseed and Choice Scarf Togedemaru can help pressure them. Archeops is a good Stealth Rock setter on hyper offense teams. Its high Speed tier lets it block opposing entry hazard setters with Taunt, and it can KO itself with Head Smash to bring a teammate in safely and prevent Rapid Spin and Defog from removing its hazards. Focus Sash ensures that it can almost always set Stealth Rock; however, once it is brought into Defeatist range, there isn't too much value in preserving Archeops. Archeops can pretty much support every offensive threat in the tier, and it should almost always be the lead on the hyper offense teams it is used on. Nasty Plot Mesprit and Swords Dance Silvally-Fairy are offensive threats that appreciate the support Archeops provides. Galarian Articuno can punish Defog attempts with Competitive, letting it become more dangerous even if Stealth Rock gets removed. Offensive checks to Sneasel such as Ribombee are helpful because it can prevent Stealth Rock from being set with Triple Axel, assuming it lands two hits. Many of the aforementioned Pokemon can also bring Archeops in safely with U-turn to find opportunities to set Stealth Rock if it was unable to earlier on.
Gholdengo (SV competitive strategy): With an excellent typing, moveset, and ability, Gholdengo stands out as an incredibly valuable Pokemon that can act as both a defensive and offensive glue on virtually any team style from hyper offense to balance. Its typing allows Gholdengo to check numerous relevant threats such as Iron Valiant, Zamazenta, Kyurem, and Galarian Slowking, and Good as Gold allows it to take on status users like Clefable and Zapdos, phazers like Ting-Lu, and Encore or Taunt from foes like Ogerpon-W, Iron Valiant, and Deoxys-S; both of these combined also makes Gholdengo one of the sturdiest methods to stop entry hazard removal, as it prevents some of the most common formes in Corviknight's Defog, Glimmora's Mortal Spin, and Great Tusk and Iron Treads's Rapid Spin. Gholdengo's moveset also gives it many options; Nasty Plot allows it to act as a wincon and wallbreaker, letting it overwhelm foes with excellent coverage and the longevity provided via Recover. It is also an excellent status spreader with Thunder Wave, giving Gholdengo a way to cripple faster foes such as Zamazenta, Darkrai, and Dragapult, synergizing well with its Hex. Choice Scarf patches up its middling Speed and lets it act as a team's speed control, which also lets it run Trick to cripple setup sweepers like Dragonite and Zamazenta as well as defensive switch-ins against bulkier teams. Gholdengo, however, suffers from an awkward Speed tier without a Choice Scarf, as it is slower than many relevant threats such as Darkrai, Kyurem, Cinderace, and Great Tusk. It also often invites in common Pokemon that can threaten it directly such as Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott, and special walls such as Ting-Lu, Assault Vest Tornadus-T, and Clodsire can give it trouble. Thanks to Good as Gold and excellent defensive typing that lets it set up on Pokemon like Galarian Slowking and Clefable, Nasty Plot Gholdengo is a premier wallbreaker in the metagame. Shadow Ball gives it a no-drawback and spammable STAB move to hit most foes neutrally, particularly valuable against opposing Gholdengo. Make it Rain's sheer power is great against Garganacl and Kyurem while hitting neutral threats like Ting-Lu, Zamazenta, and Great Tusk hard. Thunderbolt takes care of Moltres, Hisuian Samurott, and Alomomola. Dazzling Gleam hits foes like Hisuian Samurott, Ting-Lu, and Raging Bolt reliably while being a solid STAB move when paired with Tera Fairy. Focus Blast hits the many Dark-types in the tier; it notably targets Kingambit while hitting Ting-Lu and Hisuian Samurott harder than Dazzling Gleam. Recover gives Gholdengo a way to stay in the battle for longer, particularly against chip damage like Garganacl's Salt Cure, and leverage its defensive utility against the aforementioned threats. Psyshock turns it into a stallbreaker, as it is useful for breaking through special walls that would otherwise contest with Gholdengo, like Calm Mind Blissey and Clodsire. The Ground immunity granted by Air Balloon allows Gholdengo to set up in the face of Gliscor, spinblock Great Tusk and Iron Treads, become a sturdier switch-in against foes like Kyurem and Dragonite, and avoid damage from Spikes. Metal Coat alongside Tera Steel can be used on Make It Rain variants to propel its power to overwhelm checks like Ting-Lu and even OHKO resistant ones like bulky Kingambit and Moltres at +2. On bulkier teams that lack any entry hazard removal, Heavy-Duty Boots can be used instead due to Air Balloon's temporary immunity to Spikes being less appealing with Gholdengo's necessity to switch around more often. Shuca Berry is an option to lure in Ground-type revenge killers like Great Tusk and Landorus-T to flip the matchup against them; the lack of immunity over Air Balloon is made up for Gholdengo's freedom to take on other attacks early in the game as well as hiding Gholdengo's item from the opponent. Gholdengo can make great use of a wide variety of Tera types, both for offensive and defensive purposes: Tera Fairy boosts Dazzling Gleam and gives it a sudden resistance to Dark, potentially mitigating the damage from moves like Knock Off, Crunch, and Sucker Punch from Iron Valiant, Zamazenta, and Kingambit, respectively. Tera Fighting is an option to boost its Focus Blast, notably having good odds to OHKO Ting-Lu at +2, while also providing a Dark resistance similar to Tera Fairy. Any team can make great use of Gholdengo’s ability to spinblock and prevent Defog, but an offensive team would make the best use of its wallbreaking power. Offensive hazard-stacking cores featuring Pokemon such as Glimmora, Hisuian Samurott, and Deoxys-S can use Gholdengo’s help to keep the pressure on, with Gholdengo in return preventing foes from removing said hazards easily. Powerful wallbreakers like Ogerpon-W and Darkrai provide support for Gholdengo to whittle down defensive cores together. Without using Tera, Gholdengo struggles against the Dark-types and Ghost-types that are so common in the tier, such as Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Dragapult. Having teammates that can check them, like Zamazenta, Enamorus, and Hisuian Samurott give Gholdengo some extra protection and a way to strike back against them. Even if it's using Air Balloon, having another Ground-immune Pokemon, such as Gliscor or Tornadus-T, is extremely helpful to mitigate that weakness. Gholdengo is vulnerable to fast threats such as Dragapult, Walking Wake, and Weavile. Having some form speed control on the team, such as Choice Scarf Enamorus and Meowscarada or priority users like Weavile and Raging Bolt, to counteract these threats is extremely valuable. Defensive Gholdengo can serve as a bulky spinblocker and powerful setup sweeper in long matches. Its bulk, typing, and access to reliable recovery give it multiple opportunities to pivot into various defensive Pokemon such as Skarmory, Corviknight, Galarian Slowking, and Clefable and make it a more reliable check to key offensive Pokemon such as Iron Valiant, Hatterene, and Zamazenta. It can use its increased bulk to more safely set up a Nasty Plot while sustaining itself with Recover. Gholdengo possesses near perfect coverage with its STAB attacks, making it very difficult to respond to. Dazzling Gleam is an option over Make It Rain, as it deals high damage to Dark-types such as Hisuian Samurott and Kingambit after a Nasty Plot boost. 60 Speed EVs allow Gholdengo to outspeed Jolly Kingambit and Azumarill, as well as uninvested Landorus-T; alternatively, 92 Speed EVs can allow Gholdengo to also outspeed uninvested Gliscor at the cost of losing a noticeable amount of bulk. Air Balloon allows Gholdengo to avoid taking Spikes damage and Ground-type attacks from prominent Pokemon such as Great Tusk and Gliscor, letting it setup on these Pokemon and more safely pivot into Rapid Spin users such as the aforementioned Great Tusk and Iron Treads. Heavy-Duty Boots can be used instead to more reliably mitigate entry hazard damage and more frequently pivot into various defensive Pokemon such as Skarmory even after it has taken damage. Rocky Helmet is a solid alternative to these items that can effectively punish physical attackers like Zamazenta, which is forced to commit to using Crunch against Gholdengo, and force it out due to the threat of significant chip damage. On offensive Grassy Terrain teams with Rillaboom, Grassy Seed can be used to give it setup opportunities against foes like Ogerpon-W and Ting-Lu as well as take on the likes of Dragonite and Zamazenta more comfortably. Gholdengo is a fantastic Terastallization candidate in most matches, as it greatly benefits from neutralizing all of its weaknesses to gain a crucial free turn to setup a Nasty Plot or heal itself with Recover. Tera Fairy gives Gholdengo a better matchup against various Dark-types such as Weavile and Meowscarada and boosts the power of Dazzling Gleam. Tera Water improves Gholdengo's matchups against Iron Moth and Cinderace as well as providing a good defensive typing against much of the metagame. Tera Flying is an alternative option that lets it completely dominate Ground-types such as Great Tusk, Gliscor, and Ting-Lu. Gholdengo fits quite well on bulky offense and balance teams as a spinblocker. Therefore, Spikes setters such as Ting-Lu, Gliscor, and Skarmory, as well as Stealth Rock setters such as Great Tusk, Garganacl, and Landorus-T greatly appreciate Gholdengo's ability to block most forms of hazard removal. Offensive teammates also appreciate Gholdengo's presence due to its strong defensive profile and ability to absorb status moves. Kingambit in particular greatly benefits from Gholdengo's ability to block status moves and check Pokemon it struggles against such as Zamazenta and Iron Valiant and can capitalize on Gholdengo luring and weakening its other checks such as Great Tusk. Iron Valiant similarly benefits from Gholdengo's ability to check Hatterene, and it can lure and weaken key checks to Gholdengo such as Clodsire with Psyshock. Gholdengo often struggles against offensive teams due to its poor matchup against many key threats such as Darkrai, Kingambit, and Iron Moth. Great Tusk and Dondozo can help alleviate pressure by dealing with Kingambit while simultaneously benefiting from Gholdengo's defensive profile against faster special attackers such as Enamorus. Ting-Lu and Clodsire can handle the special attackers that give Gholdengo trouble, such as Dragapult, and accentuate Gholdengo's threat level with entry hazards. While Gholdengo is excellent at keeping entry hazards on the field, it can often struggle against opposing entry hazard setters such as Ting-Lu, Hisuian Samurott, and Clodsire, particularly if it is unable to Terastallize. Therefore, hazard removal support from Great Tusk is beneficial. Hex Gholdengo is a powerful support Pokemon and paralysis spreader. Thunder Wave cripples many Pokemon Gholdengo typically struggles with such as Hisuian Samurott, Darkrai, and Cinderace while also being useful against Pokemon Gholdengo is tasked with handling, such as Zamazenta and Iron Valiant. It can then follow up with a powerful Hex on subsequent switch-ins. Make It Rain is the preferred option in the last slot to hit specially frail Ground-types, such as Great Tusk and Landorus-T, and Garganacl for high damage. Dazzling Gleam still hits Great Tusk for good damage while also hitting other Pokemon such as Hisuian Samurott quite hard. Focus Blast is another option that can be used in the last slot, as it is Gholdengo's strongest move against Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Darkrai, OHKOing the latter two after minor chip damage. 60 Speed EVs allow Gholdengo to outspeed Jolly Kingambit and uninvested Landorus-T. Air Balloon allows Gholdengo to avoid Ground-type moves, letting it more reliably spinblock Great Tusk, as well as check Dragonite. Leftovers is also an option, as Gholdengo can force a good amount of switches, granting it more residual healing. Rocky Helmet greatly improves Gholdengo's matchup against Zamazenta, which is forced to use Crunch to meaningfully damage Gholdengo and as such takes significant chip damage. Colbur Berry can also be considered, as it allows Gholdengo to more effectively lure in and paralyze Dark-types such as Weavile and Darkrai while also making it a more reliable answer to Swords Dance Iron Valiant. On teams without hazard removal, Heavy Duty-Boots is also an option to avoid entry hazard damage. Gholdengo can be an effective Tera candidate in order to check a wider range of threats with Thunder Wave. Tera Fairy allows Gholdengo to better check utility Dragapult and resist Dark-type moves from Pokemon such as Weavile and Darkrai, allowing it to get off a crucial Thunder Wave against them while also being helpful against Garganacl by lowering Salt Cure damage. Tera Fairy also has the added benefit of boosting Dazzling Gleam's damage, giving it remarkable odds to OHKO Hisuian Samurott and Great Tusk. Alternatively, Tera Water improves Gholdengo's matchup against Fire-types such as Iron Moth and Cinderace. Gholdengo is an effective option on teams looking for a bulky spinblocker and paralysis support. Hazard setters such as Landorus-T, Ting-Lu, Glimmora, and Ribombee all benefit from its ability to block removal from the likes of Corviknight and Great Tusk. Kingambit greatly benefits from Gholdengo's presence due to it checking Zamazenta and spreading paralysis, allowing Kingambit to outspeed and KO targets such as Darkrai, Weavile, and opposing Kingambit. Darkrai similarly appreciates Gholdengo's ability to paralyze Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Iron Moth, allowing it to more effectively sweep in the late-game. Iron Valiant also enjoys Gholdengo's presence to handle Galarian Slowking and Zamazenta, as well as its ability to spread paralysis to make Iron Valiant less reliant on Booster Energy to revenge kill Pokemon such as Darkrai. Garganacl appreciates Gholdengo's ability to spinblock its Stealth Rock and handle Pokemon it struggles against, such as Galarian Slowking and Encore users such as Ogerpon and Iron Valiant. In turn, Garganacl aids Gholdengo against Fire-types it may struggle against such as Iron Moth, as well as opposing Ghost-types such as Dragapult. As this Gholdengo set is not running a boosting move, it can struggle to make progress against certain Pokemon, particularly bulky Ground- and Electric-types such as Ting-Lu, Iron Treads, and Raging Bolt. As such, it appreciates partners that can handle these types of Pokemon. Great Tusk is an excellent partner, as it can undo any hazards Ting-Lu or Iron Treads set up, switch into Raging Bolt's Electric-type moves, and deal good damage to all three with Headlong Rush. It is also effective against other Pokemon Gholdengo may struggle with such as Kingambit. Darkrai can lure and deal heavy damage to Ground-types such as Ting-Lu and Clodsire with its Nasty Plot-boosted Ice Beam, making it easier for Gholdengo to break through them later. Ogerpon-W can easily break past Ground-types with Ivy Cudgel and is effective at luring in and KOing Raging Bolt with Play Rough. It also appreciates Gholdengo's ability to handle Zamazenta and paralyze faster targets such as Darkrai. As Gholdengo's bulk is middling, it can be prone to being overwhelmed by faster threats such as Darkrai and Iron Moth. Dragonite and Raging Bolt can revenge kill these Pokemon with their powerful Extreme Speed and Thunderclap, respectively, while also being able to weaken Ground-types that may switch into Gholdengo with Ice Spinner and Draco Meteor, respectively. Similarly, Zamazenta can also use these Pokemon as an entry point to set up and sweep with Iron Defense. Dragonite and Zamazenta appreciate Gholdengo's ability to handle their checks such as Enamorus and Skarmory, while Raging Bolt appreciates Gholdengo's ability to weaken Ground-type such as Ting-Lu and Great Tusk. As any status will boost Hex's power, Gholdengo appreciates support from other status spreaders. Moltres can help by spreading burns with Flame Body on Pokemon that typically annoy Gholdengo such Great Tusk and Kingambit while also checking Fire-types like Cinderace. Gliscor is similarly effective at spreading Toxic against Ground- and Electric-types such as Ting-Lu and Raging Bolt, while also completely walling Clodsire. In turn, Gholdengo helps Gliscor maintain its Spikes on the field. Choice Scarf Gholdengo is a great speed control option in the tier capable of outrunning and revenge killing premier offensive threats like Dragapult, Choice Specs Enamorus, and Weavile. Shadow Ball allows it to threaten foes like Galarian Slowking, Skarmory, and Dragapult, while Make It Rain, with its high Base Power, not only becomes challenging to switch into but also enables Gholdengo to effectively revenge kill Pokemon like Enamorus. Trick is a good utility move that allows it to Choice-lock Pokemon like Ting-Lu and Gliscor, hampering their effectiveness. Focus Blast enables Gholdengo to hit Dark-types like Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Ting-Lu. Alternatively, Nasty Plot can be used to turn Gholdengo into a potent late-game cleaner once it has successfully used Trick to get rid of its Choice Scarf. In another vein, Recover can be utilized to keep Gholdengo healthy, especially against bulkier foes, once it has used Trick, allowing it to check them more consistently. Tera Fighting gives Gholdengo a resistance to Dark-type moves, most notably Sucker Punch from Kingambit, and it gives Focus Blast a STAB boost. Tera Ghost boosts the power of its spammable Shadow Ball, letting it clean up late-game more easily; similarly, Tera Steel can be used to better sweep through weakened foes with Make It Rain. Gholdengo fits well on bulky offense and balance teams, where it functions as a great revenge killer. Teammates that benefit from Gholdengo's presence include Pokemon that appreciate its ability to handle fast and strong offensive threats. For instance, setup sweepers like Calm Mind Raging Bolt and Bulk Up Great Tusk can capitalize on Gholdengo's ability to revenge kill and weaken opposing threats like Dragapult and Choice Specs Enamorus, creating opportunities for Gholdengo's partners to set up and sweep. Great Tusk's access to Rapid Spin also synergizes well with Gholdengo, which is punished by Spikes, so getting rid of them gives Gholdengo more opportunities to switch in. Entry hazard setters like Gliscor, Skarmory, and Ting-Lu also benefit from Gholdengo's ability to serve as an emergency spinblocker. Due to its vulnerability to Dark-type Pokemon like Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott, exacerbated by its reliance on the inaccurate Focus Blast and the inherent risk of being Choice-locked, Gholdengo greatly benefits from the support of teammates that check the aforementioned foes, such as Zamazenta and Iron Valiant. Rillaboom also deserves a special mention as a teammate, as its Grassy Terrain weakens the super effective Earthquake, in addition to acting as a check to foes like Ting-Lu. In return, Gholdengo helps Rillaboom by handling threats that would otherwise be problematic for the latter, such as Corviknight and Skarmory. Covert Cloak is an option to take on Garganacl's Salt Cure and Hatterene's Nuzzle, as well as avoid the Defense drop from Zamazenta's Crunch. Ability Shield lets Gholdengo ignore Galarian Weezing's Neutralizing Gas, allowing Good as Gold to continue blocking Defog. Thunder Wave is an option on Choice Scarf sets in order to surprise and cripple threats such as Ogerpon-W and Tornadus-T. Choice Specs can be used to wallbreak while still having the utility of Trick, with the immediate power boost letting it 2HKO Ting-Lu with Focus Blast after Stealth Rock, although this set is notably held back by Gholdengo's Speed. Salac Berry fixes the Speed issue on Nasty Plot Gholdengo in a pinch and allow a potential sweep late-game. Red Card takes advantage of its bulk to act as a one-time phazer against boosted threats such as Iron Valiant. Eject Pack allows Gholdengo to pivot once after using Make It Rain, providing team support by keeping up momentum. Custap Berry is another option to mitigate its Speed issue, and it can be used to surprise foes and hit back against would-be revenge killers like Dragapult and Iron Valiant.
Inteleon (SS competitive strategy): Inteleon's incredible Speed tier and access to U-turn make it a good wallbreaker and pivot in NU, severely punishing teams that lack a sturdy Water-type check and preserving momentum against solid switch-ins like Vaporeon and Mantine. Additionally, its Speed leaves it with limited offensive counterplay and makes it a good revenge killer; it outpaces other fast foes like Salazzle, Tauros, and Starmie and can easily KO them with its attacks. Inteleon does face strong competition from other offensive Water-types, though. Starmie can break through its checks thanks to its superior coverage and Analytic, whereas Kingdra is capable of setting up on Vaporeon and Mantine. With its coverage moves, Inteleon can dissuade certain Water-resistant foes like Dhelmise, Starmie, and Guzzlord from safely switching into it. Ice Beam hits Dragon- and Grass-types very hard, while Dark Pulse covers Starmie and Jellicent. Those that aren't threatened by its coverage are vulnerable to ceding momentum if U-turn is used. Inteleon synergizes best with Pokemon like Decidueye, Toxicroak, and Rotom-C that can take advantage of the bulky Water-types it frequently draws in. Other pivots like Talonflame and Silvally-Ground can provide that same advantage to Inteleon, bringing it in against foes like Diancie and Weezing that it easily deals with. Common Choice Scarf users like Rotom-C, Passimian, and Heliolisk are threatening revenge killers, so make sure to have checks to them like Guzzlord, Escavalier, and Decidueye. Inteleon can use the combination of Focus Energy, Scope Lens, and Sniper to try and get by defensive answers with strong critical hits. Choice Scarf sets are also possible, although they struggle to revenge kill foes like Starmie and Toxicroak.
Inteleon (SV competitive strategy): Inteleon's Speed tier and sky-high Special Attack make it a formidable threat in NU. Not only is it blazing fast, but with Choice Specs, it's also quite powerful and can 2HKO many common special walls like Alolan Muk, Copperajah, and Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro on the switch with Hydro Pump. Even when facing Water-immune Pokemon like Gastrodon, Toxicroak, and Vaporeon, Inteleon still has a way to flip the matchup in its favor in its U-turn, which lets it bring in teammates like Breloom, Flygon, and Toxicroak to take advantage of these checks. On the other hand, Inteleon does face a bit of competition from Basculegion-M and Paldean Tauros-W, as the former can switch up its moves because it largely uses Mystic Water, the latter has Intimidate, and both have access to priority and easily fit coverage for Toxicroak; however, it isn't hindered by contact punishment such as Talonflame's Flame Body and Vileplume's Rocky Helmet and Effect Spore. It also has to deal with not being able to use its strongest move when up against teams with Water-immune Pokemon, which greatly halts Inteleon's progress-making, as it's almost always forced to use U-turn against them if it doesn't want to give up momentum. Hydro Pump is the preferred STAB option due to its power, but it can be unreliable at times. Alternatively, Surf can be run for accuracy in exchange for power. Ice Beam complements Inteleon's Water-type STAB move really well by hitting Grass- and Dragon-types like Decidueye, Vileplume, and Goodra super effectively. Dark Pulse provides Inteleon with a coverage move so that it isn't completely useless against Water-types like Vaporeon and Basculegion-M. U-turn allows Inteleon to pivot on even Water-immune Pokemon like Gastrodon and Vaporeon. Instead of Ice Beam or Dark Pulse, Inteleon could opt for Air Slash to better target Toxicroak and Paldean Tauros-W, but its lower Base Power means that it's worse at breaking through other Water-immune and -resistant Pokemon. Tera Water boosts Inteleon's STAB move to insane levels, but Tera Ghost allows Inteleon to avoid priority like Breloom's Mach Punch and resist Flygon's First Impression while blanking high-Base Power attacks like Mienshao's and Infernape's Close Combat. Inteleon forces in bulky Water-immune and -resistant Pokemon like Gastrodon, Vaporeon, and Tsareena, and it can capitalize on this with U-turn, letting it bring in a threat that takes advantage of them like Brambleghast, Toxicroak, or Incineroar. Toxicroak is an especially noteworthy partner, as it walls the most common Inteleon switch-in in Vaporeon and can use it as either setup fodder or a chance to throw out high-Base Power attacks. In return, Inteleon handles Fire- and Ground-types for the former two and can easily overwhelm physical walls Flygon brings in. Inteleon is quite powerful, but to achieve any of its 2HKOs, especially those against Water-type checks like Milotic and Vaporeon, it requires entry hazards to chip away at its foes; Copperajah, Bronzong, Gligar, and Klefki all synergize well to fill this role. Even without entry hazards, however, most special walls that do not resist Inteleon's STAB attacks like Bronzong, Alolan Muk, and Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro have a hard time switching in, as Bronzong is 2HKOed right away and Alolan Muk and Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro are 2HKOed after minimal chip damage. Special attacking partners like Diancie, Munkidori, and Nasty Plot Toxicroak make for good teammates, as they greatly appreciate Inteleon's ability to overwhelm their checks. Inteleon is threatened by Grass- and Electric-types like Tsareena, Rotom-C, and Kilowattrel, so Grass-types and Flying-resistant Pokemon like Vileplume, Wind Rider Brambleghast, and Diancie make for strong switch-ins to these threats. With Inteleon's frailty, it prefers to have slow pivots like Tsareena, Dragalge, and Incineroar, as they can draw out Fire- and Ground-types for Inteleon to threaten. Inteleon can also run a Scope Lens + Sniper set that is similar to its Choice Specs moveset except with Hydro Pump being traded out for Snipe Shot. When landing a critical hit, Inteleon can dent many Pokemon, but its unreliability makes it weaker overall. Choice Scarf Inteleon reaches a blisteringly fast Speed tier and, with its high Special Attack and U-turn, easily revenge kills many setup sweepers and can create momentum. A moveset of Hydro Pump / Ice Beam / U-turn / Taunt can be run alongside Heavy-Duty Boots to bother passive Pokemon that would easily take advantage of Inteleon otherwise like Alolan Muk, Vaporeon, and Bronzong. Inteleon can drop U-turn in favor of running a second STAB move, like Surf or Snipe Shot, alongside Hydro Pump, letting it choose the right move depending on its situation; however, losing momentum versus Water-immune and -resistant Pokemon can be annoying at times. Tera Blast Grass can be run to snipe Water-immune Pokemon like Vaporeon and Gastrodon, but because Inteleon has to Terastallize to make use of it and already has access to U-turn, it typically is unnecessary and thus isn't used. Tera Dark can be used to boost Dark Pulse, letting Inteleon have a chance against checks like Vaporeon and Milotic, especially after they've been chipped.
Palossand (SM competitive strategy): Palossand is able to carve out a niche for itself in the NU tier thanks to its access to Stealth Rock and reliable recovery in Shore Up. Its Ground / Ghost typing combined with its formidable physical bulk makes it a solid check to Fighting-types such as Medicham and Toxicroak, as well as granting immunities to Normal, Fighting, and Electric and the ability to serve as a spinblocker. Thanks to its STAB Shadow Ball and base 100 Special Attack, Palossand is also one of the few Stealth Rock users in the tier that are able to beat Xatu. Water Compaction also allows Palossand to switch into weaker Water-type moves, such as Samurott's Aqua Jet, and gain a +2 Defense boost. However, due to Palossand's rather poor Special Defense and weakness to many offensive types, it is vulnerable to many of NU's strongest special attackers, namely Alolan Exeggutor, Whimsicott, and Vikavolt. While it has a solid Special Attack stat, it is still very passive and struggles to OHKO even offensive foes. Additionally, Palossand struggles to put its Ghost typing to use for spinblocking, as the only spinner it can really take on is the unviable Hitmontop. Stealth Rock is useful for any competitive team, and Palossand's ability to beat other Stealth Rock users, such as Steelix and Rhydon, grants it many opportunities to set it up. Earth Power allows Palossand to hit Pokemon such as Steelix, Garbodor, and Heliolisk for super effective damage. Shadow Ball is crucial for dealing with Xatu, one of the tier's most common forms of entry hazard control. It also allows Palossand to deal solid damage versus Pokemon such as Slowking, Rotom, and Mismagius. Shore Up is important for keeping Palossand healthy throughout the battle, allowing it to switch into Pokemon such as Medicham and Passimian on multiple occasions. Palossand's main role is to take physical hits; therefore, 252 EVs are placed into HP and Defense along with a Bold nature. Colbur Berry allows Palossand to take Dark-type moves such as Hitmonlee's Knock Off, Houndoom's Dark Pulse, and Incineroar's Darkest Lariat more effectively. Water Compaction, though situational, is Palossand's best ability; however, Palossand struggles to actually gain from it, since most Water-types are too overwhelming for it to handle. Switch Palossand into Pokemon such as Hitmonlee and Steelix in order to get up Stealth Rock, typically earlier in the battle. However, if you predict Xatu or a Defogger such as Whimsicott to switch in, use Shadow Ball in order to get off damage, making it easier to keep Stealth Rock on the field later in the battle. Pokemon such as Garbodor, Rhydon, and Druddigon also struggle to deal very much damage to Palossand, so switching Palossand directly into them will likely result in a free turn to use Stealth Rock. Once Palossand has taken a decent amount of damage, use Shore Up in order to keep it healthy throughout the battle. Be wary of Toxic from Pokemon such as Steelix and defensive Slowking, as it will put Palossand on a timer and lessen its utility. Palossand's partial Ghost typing also discourages Pokemon such as Medicham and Passimian from spamming High Jump Kick and Close Combat, so this could be used to your advantage throughout a battle. Special walls such as Incineroar and Vaporeon complement Palossand nicely, taking on special attackers such as Rotom and Slowking that threaten Palossand. Grass-types such as Sceptile and Whimsicott take care of Palossand's weakness to opposing Grass- and Water-types. Ferroseed is also able to set Spikes, which Palossand can then spinblock. Fire-types such as Delphox and Houndoom resist opposing Grass- and Ice-type moves and can fire back with super effective STAB attacks. Pokemon that are weak to Fighting-type moves such as Klinklang, Heliolisk, Sneasel, and Guzzlord all appreciate Palossand's ability to check said Fighting-types. A cleric such as Vaporeon or Mega Audino can use Heal Bell in order to cure a Toxic or burn placed on Palossand; additionally, both of them synergize well with Palossand, taking on Pokemon it's weak to. Toxic can be used to rack up damage on bulkier foes such as Vaporeon and Braviary, diminishing their effectiveness throughout a battle greatly; however, Palossand struggles to free up a moveslot for it. Ghostium Z can be used to OHKO Pokemon such as defensive Slowking after some chip damage and deal more damage to possible switch-ins such as Whimsicott while also lessening damage from Knock Off. However, Z-Moves are typically more useful on offensive sweepers such as Klinklang and Incineroar.
Palossand (SS competitive strategy): Palossand's solid bulk, great typing, and instant recovery make it a great physical wall. Its Ghost / Ground typing lets it switch into common physical threats, including Sawk, Lycanroc-N, and multiple Silvally formes. Its raw bulk also allows it to handle neutral hits well, weathering attacks from Klinklang, Rapidash, Rhydon, and more. This makes it easy for it to come in and set up entry hazards while also using Shore Up to retain its longevity. Colbur Berry makes Palossand a premier Knock Off absorber, notably letting it hard counter Sawk and Gurdurr. Rocky Helmet's chip damage makes Palossand a better check to Klinklang, as well as U-turn pivots like Uxie and the Silvally formes. Scorching Sands can be run alongside Rocky Helmet to get a burn chance, as the extra damage from the item compensates for Scorching Sands's lower power. A variety of teams use Palossand to complete defensive cores, ranging from bulky offense to semi-stall. Defensive partners including Articuno, Appletun, and Rapidash absorb attacks from Grass-, Water-, and Ice-types, respectively. These teammates also appreciate Palossand's ability to handle hits from Rock- and Electric-types. Clerics like Miltank and Alcremie can also heal Palossand from Toxic and enjoy Palossand checking Klinklang and Lycanroc-N. Knock Off users like Sawk, Thwackey, and Gurdurr put on offensive pressure versus walls like Altaria and Articuno which Palossand is forced out by. Offensive pivots including Morpeko, Unfezant, and the Silvally formes love being able to switch out safely and bring out Palossand to defend their team against wallbreakers like Sawk and Manectric. Toxic can be used over Stealth Rock to put Pokemon that wall Palossand, such as Appletun, Cramorant, and non-Aromatherapy Alcremie, on a timer. This forces teams to pair Palossand with another Stealth Rock setter, though, making Palossand less easy to fit onto defensive cores. Palossand can run different items, with Kasib Berry surprising Rotom and Leftovers making Palossand less reliant on Shore Up for recovery. Unfortunately, these items only have very situational uses, whereas Colbur Berry and Rocky Helmet are more versatile.
Palossand (SV competitive strategy): Physically defensive Palossand is an exceptional addition to teams looking to shore up their defensive answers to the physical sweepers in the metagame, like Arcanine and Heracross, as well as most Toxtricity sets. Using its natural bulk and resilience to entry hazards, Palossand can establish its own hazards into many of the dominant physical attackers in the metagame while maintaining its health to function as a physical sponge with Shore Up. Shadow Ball allows Palossand to hit Ghost-types like Decidueye and Hoopa for solid damage, preventing them from using it as setup fodder. Sludge Bomb gives Palossand the coverage to hit Grass-types like Rotom-C and Wo-Chien, with the chance to inflict poison on them and secure valuable chip damage against switch-ins like Bombirdier, Gastrodon, and especially Wo-Chien. Scorching Sands is a STAB move that has a chance to inflict burn, which is run alongside Shadow Ball and preferred over Sludge Bomb to not accidentally inflict poison on something that it would rather burn. Similarly, Earth Power is used in conjunction with Sludge Bomb to not risk an accidental status effect from Scorching Sands. Colbur Berry can make Knock Off and other Dark-type attacks from Pokemon like Skuntank and Zoroark much easier to switch into. Rocky Helmet punishes pivoting attempts and physical attackers as a whole, wearing down foes without access to recovery like Ambipom and Staraptor. Having no item is a niche option that allows Palossand to comfortably switch into strong Poltergeists from Golurk while also reducing damage taken from Knock Off. Tera Water is used to flip the weakness to Water-type attacks into a resistance, capitalizing on its ability to get a Defense boost thanks to Water Compaction while comfortably taking on threats like Bruxish and Paldean Tauros-W. Tera Water does create a weakness to Electric, however, making matchups into Kilowattrel, Rotom-H, and Toxtricity much more difficult. Tera Dark converts weaknesses to Dark and Ghost into resistances, notably helping with the slew of strong Dark- and Ghost-types in the tier like Decidueye, Hoopa, Skuntank, and Zoroark. Tera Dark makes the matchup into wallbreakers like Flamigo, Heracross, and Paldean Tauros-W much more difficult, though. Palossand is a good choice for balance and bulky offense teams in need of a reliable spinblocker and Stealth Rock setter. Teammates like Florges, Scream Tail, and Wo-Chien pair well with Palossand, providing a partner that can switch into the special attackers in the tier like Goodra, Rotom-C, and Zoroark. Palossand works especially well on Spike stacking cores, with Coalossal and Alolan Sandslash providing hazard-stacking and hazard removal in one slot. Being able to spinblock opposing Coalossal is valuable, as it can be threatened out while maintaining hazards for teammates to capitalize on. Offensive pivots appreciate Palossand as a safe switch-in to threats like Heracross and Lycanroc, making Ambipom, Flamigo, and Toxtricity great supporting Pokemon that can rely on their defensive backbones to wear down their checks and counters like Bronzong, Coalossal, and Mudsdale. Florges and Zoroark appreciate Palossand for its ability to wear down physical sweepers like Arcanine and Heracross, giving them late-game sweeping potential with Calm Mind and Nasty Plot, respectively. Venusaur is a common switch-in against Palossand, so teammates like Delphox and Paldean Tauros-F are valuable to check it offensively.
Chandelure (BW competitive strategy): Chandelure has a small niche in BW OU with its ability to form solid double Ghost-type cores with Jellicent on hyper offensive teams. In contrast to Gengar, Chandelure is able to OHKO Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Scizor while also being threatening against bulkier Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Gliscor and Seismitoad. Chandelure also has Flame Body, which makes it difficult for Excadrill to spin against it, since it must risk getting burned while attempting to break its Air Balloon. Flame Body is also useful for burning Tyranitar, which Chandelure's partners Latios and Alakazam can take advantage of. Unfortunately, Chandelure on its own faces several problems. First off, it is Stealth Rock weak, meaning that it can take a lot of damage for attempting to spinblock. It struggles immensely against the most common playstyles in the game, sand and rain, and is ultimately unable to spinblock Starmie and Tentacruel. Its Speed tier leaves it forced out by faster threats such as Latios and Keldeo. These reasons are why Chandelure is often passed over for Jellicent which has better defensive typing, better special bulk, and a stellar ability in Water Absorb.
Chandelure (XY competitive strategy): Chandelure sports a high base 145 Special Attack, making it an optimal special wallbreaker. Chandelure also sports three immunities to some of the most common attacking types in the tier: Fighting, Fire, and Normal. This allows it to utilize an effective revenge-killing Choice Scarf set and a wallbreaking Choice Specs set. Unfortunately, poor base 60 HP lets its checks and counters easily revenge kill it. Additionally, Chandelure's subpar base 80 Speed means that anything with base 145 Speed or higher, such as Mega Aerodactyl, will outspeed and OHKO Choice Scarf Chandelure, and Chandelure's typing and lack of bulk makes it Pursuit bait. Fire Blast is the standard Fire-type STAB move, OHKOing most frail Pokemon. Shadow Ball is the go-to Ghost-type STAB move if the opponent's team can handle Fire-type moves or has an apparent Ghost-type weakness to exploit. Energy Ball is useful for revenge killing weakened bulky Water- and Ground-types and OHKOes Swampert. Trick is a good option against stall teams or bulky Pokemon that attempt to work around Chandelure's wallbreaking ability, as well as against win condition Pokemon such as Curse Snorlax. Alternatively, Memento is a good option to severely cripple the opponent's Pokemon, giving your team a setup sweep opportunity. 252 Special Attack EVs allow Chandelure to wallbreak as easily as possible. 252 Speed EVs, Choice Scarf, and a Timid nature allow Chandelure to outspeed and revenge kill anything under base 145 Speed. Flash Fire allows Chandelure to absorb Fire-type moves such as Sacred Fire and Flare Blitz and proceed to use Fire Blast at 1.5x power. Flame Body can be used instead of Flash Fire to cripple physical attackers that can take advantage of Chandelure's middling Defense stat. Use Choice Scarf Chandelure as a revenge killer or moderately powerful special wallbreaker. Chandelure can be used as an anti-lead but is much more effective as a late-game cleaner or mid-game revenge killer. Chandelure can be an effective spinblocker against Forretress, but it fears Tentacruel and Donphan for Scald and Earthquake, respectively. Fire Blast hits even Chandelure's common switch-ins, like Hydreigon, for decent damage while OHKOing all moderately bulky threats that do not resist it, such as Nidoqueen. Flamethrower is an alternative, reliable Fire-type STAB move OHKOing most frail Pokemon thanks to Choice Specs but sports a noticable dip in power. Shadow Ball is the standard go-to Ghost-type STAB move if the opponent's team can handle Fire-type moves or if the opponent has an apparent Ghost-type weakness to exploit. Energy Ball is useful for revenge killing slightly weakened bulky Water- and Ground-types and OHKOes Swampert; however, Chandelure still won't be OHKOing any of its bulky Water- and Ground-type checks and counters without prior damage. Trick is a good option against stall teams or bulky Pokemon that attempt to work around Chandelure's wallbreaking ability. 252 Special Attack EVs allow Chandelure to wallbreak as easily as possible. 252 Speed EVs and a Timid Nature allow Chandelure to outspeed most walls, letting it perform its wallbreaking role effectively. A Modest nature can be used to secure a 2HKO against Florges after Stealth Rock, although Timid is generally the better nature because it allows Chandelure to outspeed neutral base 90s. Flash Fire allows Chandelure to absorb Fire-type spam moves like Sacred Fire and Flare Blitz, and use Flamethrower or Fire Blast at 1.5x power. Flame Body can be used to punish physical attacks, and is also useful for hitting Porygon2, who otherwise walls Chandelure due to Trace. Use Choice Specs Chandelure as a high-powered special wallbreaker with the capability of 2HKOing the majority of the tier that doesn't resist it. Chandelure is very effective as a mid-game wallbreaker or revenge killer against bulkier Pokemon such as a partially injured Mega Blastoise or Suicune. Chandelure can easily dismantle balanced teams, OHKOing the common Life Orb Nidoqueen and Choice Band Metagross while 2HKOing many Pokemon common on balance teams, ranging from Mega Ampharos to Sylveon. Chandelure can be an effective spinblocker against Forretress, but it fears Tentacruel and Donphan for Scald and Earthquake, respectively. Substitute allows Chandelure to work around switches and common stall playstyles, including teams that utilize Pokemon such as Blissey. Calm Mind increases Chandelure's already high Special Attack, allowing it to 2HKO a large portion of the tier. Flamethrower is a reliable STAB move that appreciates the Calm Mind boosts. Shadow Ball is Chandelure's secondary STAB move and provides it with reasonable offensive coverage. 252 Special Attack EVs ensure that Chandelure can wallbreak as easily as possible, even taking care of Blissey at +6. 252 Speed EVs allow Chandelure to outspeed most slower wallbreakers, such as Machamp, Nidoqueen, and Mega Blastoise, as well as any neutral base 90 Speed Pokemon. The 4 Special Defense EVs are used for the rare-yet-effective Download Porygon-Z, which can interrupt a sweep with Dark Pulse. Hydreigon is still a common switch-in for Chandelure, so an alternative spread with 112 HP EVs taken from Special Attack ensures that Chandelure survives Choice Scarf Hydreigon's Dark Pulse after one Calm Mind, allowing Chandelure to secure a surprise KO if Hydreigon has taken prior damage. 112 HP EVs also prevent uninvested Florges's Moonblast from breaking Chandelure's Substitute. Flame Body can be used over Flash Fire to cripple physical attackers, and lets Chandelure beat Porygon2. It is best to save Substitute + Calm Mind Chandelure as a late-game win condition or as a setup sweeper against stall playstyles. Despite having less special power than the Choice Scarf set, Chandelure can still serve as an effective moderate wallbreaker against weakened balanced threats. Chandelure can be an effective spinblocker against Forretress, but it fears Tentacruel and Donphan for Scald and Earthquake, respectively. Expert Belt is an option to bluff a Choice set. A bulkier Substitute + Calm Mind set can be used, decreasing the Speed EVs to hit lower benchmarks such as 242 for Adamant Honchkrow and uninvested base 100s. Hidden Power Fighting hits Pokemon that resist Chandelure's STAB moves, such as Hydreigon and Houndoom. A Substitute + Pain Split set with Life Orb can be effective, particularly against Pokemon with high HP such as Vaporeon and Snorlax, as Pain Split takes advantage of Chandelure's low HP. Taunt stops various Pokemon from setting up and healing. Will-O-Wisp is great against some switch-ins, such as Assault Vest Machamp, Mega Aerodactyl, and Snorlax. Trick Room is another option and works particularly well with Memento.
Chandelure (SM competitive strategy): Chandelure's huge Special Attack stat and unique typing allow it to function as a decently versatile offensive threat capable of fulfilling many different roles for a team. By virtue of its immunity to Blissey's Seismic Toss, ability to bypass status with Substitute, and solid STAB coverage, it can take on several defensive teams as a reliable stallbreaker with Calm Mind. Chandelure can also utilize a Choice Scarf to revenge kill several offensive threats, such as Scizor, Celebi, and Latias, thanks to its typing, solid offensive prowess, and ability to cripple some of its switch-ins with Trick. Its typing also has its defensive perks, such as two immunities and a plethora of useful resistances, allowing Chandelure to check various tier staples such as Scizor, Cobalion, and Infernape. However, the benefits of Chandelure's typing can be quite offset by its common weaknesses, such as its vulnerabilities to Pursuit and Stealth Rock, as well as its huge susceptibility to one of the tier's most used Pokemon in Hydreigon. Chandelure is also hurt by its paltry Speed tier, which prevents it from outrunning threats like Terrakion, Krookodile, and Nihilego, as well as Mega Aerodactyl and Mega Beedrill even with a Choice Scarf. These flaws plague Chandelure with stiff competition from Gengar, another offensive Ghost-type with a much better Speed tier, the coverage necessary to work around Hydreigon and Pursuit trappers, and more overall customizability. Gengar is also much less susceptible to entry hazards due to its Stealth Rock neutrality and ability to absorb Toxic Spikes. Substitute can be used on forced switches, such as against Amoonguss or Scizor, to allow Chandelure opportunities to set up or attack. This also protects it from any potential status ailment, which is essential in allowing it to reliably stallbreak. Shadow Ball breaks past foes resistant to Chandelure's Fire-type moves, such as Latias, Slowbro, and Quagsire. Despite Flamethrower's worse damage output than Fire Blast, it is often the safer option due to its better accuracy and reliability against foes like Scizor, Bisharp, and Blissey. Leftovers lets Chandelure passively restore its health throughout a match, which can allow it to more reliably switch into Pokemon it can check while further improving its stall matchup. It can also be important in allowing Chandelure to use Substitute against defensive teams several times. Ghostium Z is an option for reliably breaking past tankier offensive Pokemon, like Primarina and Moltres, in one hit with a boosted Never-Ending Nightmare. It also allows Chandelure to more reliably defeat neutral targets, such as Gligar and Hippowdon. Flame Body gives Chandelure a chance to burden foes like Cobalion and Scizor with burns as it switches into their resisted attacks. Flash Fire is also an option, however, for allowing Chandelure to completely wall setup Infernape sets while being able to come in on Rotom-H and Choice-locked Moltres more reliably. A bulkier, slower EV spread of 248 HP / 52 Def / 16 SpA / 56 SpD / 136 Spe with a Modest nature and Flame Body can be used to allow Chandelure to stomach some attacks it otherwise couldn't, such as Mega Aerodactyl's Earthquake and Crawdaunt's Aqua Jet, while still outrunning threats like Scizor and Modest Primarina. The extra bulk can also help it more easily set up Substitute and more consistently put Flame Body to use. The main drawback, however, would be its decreased damage output, which would require setup for immediate power. This set's best use is as a decent stallbreaker due to Substitute and Chandelure's typing allowing it to put heavy pressure on several defensive builds. Substitute should be used on forced switches, such as against Mega Steelix and Chesnaught, as well as against Pokemon likely to try crippling Chandelure with status ailments, such as Blissey, Amoonguss, and non-Diamond Storm Diancie. If a Pokemon that Chandelure cannot reliably beat one-on-one, such as Primarina or Tentacruel, switches in as it sets its Substitute, it should try wearing them down with Shadow Ball instead of attempting to set up. Against more offensive teams, Chandelure should be preserved for late-game due to its ability to more reliably clean up after the removal of its offensive checks. In early-game situations against these teams, its best bet is often to fire off attacks instead of setting up. In more offensive matchups, Chandelure should also be careful coming in if a Pursuit trapper, like Krookodile or Mega Aerodactyl, is on the other team, as they will be able to easily revenge kill it if it cannot keep a Substitute up. If the bulkier EV spread is being run, it can allow Chandelure to tank one Pursuit as it switches out and potentially burn foes with Flame Body. Against stall teams, however, Chandelure is often free to begin accruing stat boosts due to most defensive foes' inability to break through it before being KOed. However, if a Pokemon like Hydreigon or Tentacruel is on the opposing team, Chandelure should rely on a teammate to remove or sufficiently weaken them in order to more reliably stallbreak without fear of being heavily worn down. Entry hazard support from another teammate can often help accomplish this goal more quickly. By virtue of Chandelure's high Special Attack and typing, it can be quite effective against balanced teams highly reliant on Steel-types like Mega Aggron, Mega Steelix, and Cobalion for defensive utility. In these matchups, Chandelure will often be provided with several opportunities to either use Substitute or fire off an attack to weaken foes. While Chandelure's typing can allow it blanket check Infernape, Cobalion, and Scizor, it should be wary of super effective coverage moves on all three, as the former two sometimes carry Stone Edge and the latter often carries Knock Off. This set is a decent fit on bulky offense and balanced teams in need of a serviceable stallbreaker, as Chandelure can often pressure a decent number of stall teams. It's also appreciated for its ability to function as a solid late-game cleaner. Hydreigon is a particularly capable Chandelure check, meaning answers to it like Primarina and Mega Altaria will often be appreciated as teammates. Both Pokemon can also check other Dark-types that Chandelure often fears, such as Mega Sharpedo and Krookodile. Fighting-types like Terrakion and Cobalion can also check Dark-types well, and in return, Chandelure can threaten the Psychic-types they dislike dealing with. Entry hazard removal is essential due to Chandelure's Stealth Rock weakness, making spinners and Defoggers like Tsareena, Starmie, Empoleon, and Gligar worthwhile teammates. Chandelure's poor offensive matchup makes defensive Pokemon capable of checking various portions of the metagame, like Sylveon, Hippowdon, and Mega Slowbro, decent options for teammates on more balanced builds. Revenge killers like Mega Manectric, Choice Scarf Krookodile, and Choice Scarf Nihilego appreciate Chandelure's ability to break past bulkier builds they often can't take on while they can pick off fast offensive threats that force it out in return. Various setup sweepers and cleaners, like Latias and Mega Sharpedo, also appreciate Chandelure's ability to muscle past defensive builds for them to more easily sweep later on. Fire Blast is Chandelure's strongest Fire-type move, guaranteeing an OHKO on Celebi while dealing more damage to neutral targets, like Nidoking, Kyurem, and Togekiss, than any of Chandelure's other attacks. Trick cripples Chandelure's defensive checks, like Blissey, Swampert, and Florges, as they switch in. Memento can be used after Chandelure has done its job, punishing offensive foes like Hydreigon and Crawdaunt and opening up the door for teammates to potentially sweep. Hidden Power Ice is another option that 2HKOes Hydreigon after Stealth Rock, which otherwise switches in comfortably. It also OHKOes Gligar after minor prior damage. Flamethrower is also an option in the fourth slot, more reliably revenge killing Cobalion and Scizor due to its better accuracy than Fire Blast. However, its lower damage output prevents it from 2HKOing Hippowdon and OHKOing Amoonguss. It also requires more chip damage to power through Pokemon like Mega Aggron and Nidoking. Energy Ball OHKOes Swampert and Seismitoad while hitting other Water-types hard, though it offers generally inferior coverage compared to Chandelure's other attacks. Choice Scarf enhances Chandelure's Speed, allowing it to outrun and revenge kill several large metagame threats, including Celebi, Cobalion, Gengar, and Latias. Flame Body allows Chandelure to punish physical attackers with potential burns, further aiding it in checking Scizor and Cobalion. Flash Fire can also be used to provide an immunity to Fire-type attacks, notably allowing Chandelure to more easily pivot in on Infernape and Rotom-H. This set aims to revenge kill foes due to Chandelure's boosted Speed. It can often reliably switch in on Infernape, Scizor, Lucario, and Cobalion, though it should be wary of potential super effective coverage moves they can hit it with. Chandelure can also come into play through the support of a pivot, after a teammate has fainted, or on double switches. If Scizor is on the opposing team, preserving Chandelure's HP throughout the match until it can revenge kill Scizor is its best course of action. If a defensive Pokemon capable of tanking Chandelure's hits, like Alomomola or Blissey, is expected to switch in, it should attempt crippling them with Trick. It can more liberally use the move against stall teams specifically, as this set usually doesn't provide much in the defensive matchup. If Chandelure is running Memento, it should use the attack after it's fulfilled its role to provide a teammate with an opportunity to set up. Despite its boosted Speed, Chandelure should look out for especially fast Pokemon still capable of outrunning it, like Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Sceptile, and Mega Beedrill, as well as faster Choice Scarf users like Hydreigon and Krookodile. Due to this set's good Speed, Chandelure can attempt cleaning up late-game with Shadow Ball once Pokemon resistant to it are removed and the opposing team has been generally weakened. It should make sure it's done its primary job first, though. This set fits well on offensive and balanced teams in need of a revenge killer. Pokemon that appreciate a check to Scizor, like Nihilego and Togekiss, benefit from Chandelure's support. Setup sweepers and cleaners like Terrakion and Mega Sharpedo appreciate Chandelure's ability to pick off opposing fast threats, making their jobs easier. They also enjoy the support it can provide with Memento, allowing them to more easily boost up. Pivots such as Hydreigon, Mega Manectric, and Scizor can bring Chandelure into play to get its job done while also luring in some Pokemon it matches up well against, like Latias and Infernape. Entry hazard removal is crucial for allowing Chandelure to switch in multiple times, making the likes of Empoleon and Tentacruel solid teammates. Due to this set's merely decent power, Chandelure benefits from the support of wallbreakers like Primarina, Bisharp, and Moltres. Chandelure also appreciates Pokemon capable of taking on most Pursuit trappers, like Cobalion and Terrakion, on its team. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Gligar and Cobalion is also beneficial, with Stealth Rock allowing Chandelure to reliably 2HKO Togekiss and Hippowdon with Fire Blast. Fire Blast can be used on the Calm Mind set for its ability to more easily break past threats such as Mega Aggron, though compared to Flamethrower's better accuracy and higher PP, which allow Chandelure to more reliably whittle down defensive cores, the advantages are often not worthwhile. Choice Specs puts Chandelure's decent typing and great Special Attack to use by turning it into an extremely powerful wallbreaker. However, Chandelure's exploitable Speed tier and typing often leave it easily taken advantage of if running such a set. Pain Split is an option for further annoying stall teams, though Chandelure often more reliably takes them on with Substitute. If Pain Split is run, however, it could be utilized on 3 attacks, 2 attacks + Substitute, and even Substitute + Calm Mind sets. A set running Will-O-Wisp and Hex allows Chandelure to work around the tier's many Pursuit trappers more easily, though its mediocre Speed prevents it from pulling this set off as well as Gengar most of the time.
Chandelure (SS competitive strategy): With tremendous Special Attack, a decent Speed tier, and excellent offensive typing, Chandelure solidifies itself as a dangerous wallbreaker in the RU metagame. Using Steel-types like Registeel as a wallbreaking opportunity, it finds ample chances to come in and wreak havoc. It also checks dangerous setup sweepers like Lucario and Cosmic Power Metagross. Heavy-Duty Boots Chandelure doesn't need too much entry hazard support thanks to its item, and it can weaken its checks like Incineroar and Milotic with Toxic while simultaneously strengthening Hex. Choice Specs Chandelure is a very powerful wallbreaker that nukes most of the metagame, notably 2HKOing even specially defensive Umbreon with Fire Blast after minimal damage. Choice Scarf Chandelure is a good revenge killer and strong late-game cleaner that retains usefulness against bulkier teams with Trick. However, Choice item Chandelure bears a harsh Stealth Rock weakness. In general, Chandelure struggles against Dark-types and special walls like Incineroar, Umbreon, and Snorlax, but these can be debilitated by Trick from Choice item Chandelure or, in the case of the Dark-types, overpowered by Choice Specs sets. Without Choice Scarf, it's also easily revenge killed by Pokemon like Flygon, Noivern, and Sharpedo thanks to its subpar Speed tier and mediocre defenses. Sharpedo can still outspeed Choice Scarf Chandelure thanks to Speed Boost, and Flygon commonly runs Choice Scarf itself. Shadow Ball is preferred for its immediate and consistent power, but Hex can be effective to break down Fire-resistant Pokemon more quickly like Milotic, Noivern, and Gastrodon, especially with teammates that can spread status like Toxic Gastrodon, Nidoqueen, and Metagross. Energy Ball OHKOes Gastrodon, as well as Rhyperior with minimal chip damage; however, they both get worn down by Toxic and quickly put in range of Hex anyway. Protect lets Chandelure scout Choice-locked switch-ins such as Flygon and stall statused foes. Flame Body can punish U-turn from the likes of Flygon and Crobat and various other contact moves in a pinch. Alternatively, Flash Fire can be used on teams weak to Fire-type attacks. Chandelure is extremely effective at forcing chip damage onto bulky Water-types like Milotic, which teammates like Flygon, Sharpedo, and Metagross appreciate. Celebi, Roserade, and Assault Vest Reuniclus can take on Water-types if they force Chandelure out, and Togekiss and Heracross can switch into Dark-types that revenge kill it. Bewear and Heracross also work well with Chandelure, taking care of Dark-types. Chandelure appreciates U-turn support from the likes of Crobat and Celebi to bring it into battle safely against Steel-types. Its middling Speed means faster special attackers such as Raikou and Starmie can force it out; offensive checks to them such as Choice Scarf Heracross and Rotom-C can therefore be useful. Fire Blast 2HKOes Umbreon after minimal chip damage and OHKOes an incoming Sharpedo. Energy Ball hits Water- and Ground-types like Suicune and Rhyperior. Trick debilitates walls like Umbreon, Overheat smashes common switch-ins like Incineroar and Guzzlord, and Flamethrower gives it a more accurate Fire-type move if it doesn't wish to risk Fire Blast missing. Flame Body punishes physical attackers like Crobat, Metagross, and Heracross, but Flash Fire can be used to nullify Fire-type attacks. Because of Chandelure's subpar Speed tier and mediocre defenses, pivots like Heliolisk, Flygon, and Crobat are near-mandatory partners for its success. Fighting-type wallbreakers like Bewear and Pangoro work well with Chandelure, taking advantage of Dark-types like Guzzlord and Incineroar. Dropping Heavy-Duty Boots also mandates entry hazard control from partners such as Starmie and Crobat. Galarian Weezing provides a Knock Off absorber and checks Pangoro and specially defensive Incineroar. In return, Chandelure clears Psychic- and Steel-types like Reuniclus, Registeel, and Bronzong. Dark-types like Incineroar tend to wall Chandelure, so a check to them such as Gastrodon or Diancie is also appreciated. Hazards like Spikes from Roserade, Heracross, and Golisopod help with beating Dark-types as well. Due to Chandelure's ability to lure in and weaken Fire- and Water-types like Incineroar and Milotic, partners like Celebi and Flygon enjoy its presence. In return, Celebi takes advantage of Water-types, while Flygon pivots Chandelure in via U-turn. Water-types like Sharpedo and Starmie force out Chandelure with ease, so checks to them like Umbreon, Milotic, and Golisopod work well with it. Fire Blast picks up more KOs on Pokemon at higher health, but Flamethrower can be run as a more accurate Fire-type STAB move. Energy Ball hits Water- and Ground-types like Suicune and Gastrodon. Trick debilitates walls like Umbreon. Infiltrator helps Chandelure against Pokemon that use Substitute, like Suicune, Raikou, and Entei, unlike other Chandelure sets, because it outspeeds them. Choice Scarf Chandelure demands entry hazard control. Starmie and Crobat provide it and also appreciate Chandelure clearing Psychic-types like Reuniclus and Metagross. Since Chandelure fails against Dark-types, Fighting-type wallbreakers like Heracross and Pangoro work well with it. Galarian Weezing checks Pangoro and specially defensive Incineroar, and it can accrue Rocky Helmet damage onto Incineroar, helping Chandelure break through it later. Chandelure also appreciates hazards punishing its common switch-ins like Umbreon and Guzzlord, so Pokemon like Spikes Golisopod, Heracross, and Roserade help it. In return, it revenge kills threats to them like Celebi and opposing non-Choice Scarf Chandelure. Xurkitree and Celebi check Water-types, and Xurkitree can pivot Chandelure in via Volt Switch. In return, Chandelure threatens Grass-types like Roserade. Substitute + Calm Mind Chandelure is a dangerous sweeper that's excellent at tearing through slower teams, but its middling Speed leaves this set worse off against offense teams. Taunt stops walls like Umbreon and Milotic from healing up and stops Toxic from them and Registeel. Flame Charge can turn Chandelure into a late-game sweeper, but it still gets easily revenge killed by Flygon, Raikou, and Noivern after minimal chip damage. An EV spread of 48 Def / 208 SpA / 252 Spe with a Timid nature can be run on any set to avoid the OHKO from Choice Scarf Heracross's Stone Edge; however, Stone Edge Heracross is uncommon, so the extra wallbreaking power from the listed spread is better overall.
Chandelure (SV competitive strategy): With Chandelure's tremendous Special Attack and STAB attacks, it can hit the entire tier for at least neutral damage, barring Incineroar. Chandelure, donning a Choice Specs, easily breaks through would-be checks like Diancie and Alolan Muk. However, with Choice Scarf, it becomes a dangerous revenge killer that’s able to check setup sweepers like Munkidori and Mienshao. Chandelure also learns Trick, which allows it to cripple walls and bulky setup sweepers alike such as Umbreon, Incineroar, and Cresselia. However, Chandelure has to deal with being extremely weak to entry hazards, limiting its opportunities to switch in. On top of that, Chandelure itself is quite easily revenge killed due to faster Choice Scarf users that are able to threaten it with their own STAB moves or through coverage moves like Flygon, Mienshao, and Meloetta. Fire Blast is preferred to 2HKO Alolan Muk as to not let it switch in safely, but Flamethrower can be used to be more accurate. Energy Ball hits Fire-type checks such as Swampert and Diancie. Trick cripples walls like Umbreon and Incineroar, but Overheat allows Chandelure to overwhelm Incineroar and Assault Vest users like Alolan Muk and Meloetta over the course of a battle. Tera Grass allows Chandelure to take a Ground- or Water-type attack in a pinch while boosting its Energy Ball, but Tera Fire can be used to give it insane breaking power. Chandelure has issues with switching in, so Pokemon that can pivot like Mienshao, Flygon, and Dragalge pair well, drawing in defensive Psychic-, Grass-, and Steel-types such as Galarian Slowbro, Vileplume, and Copperajah for Chandelure to prey on. With Trick crippling specially defensive foes like Alolan Muk and Umbreon, a partner that can take advantage of this like Munkidori or Cresselia helps with overwhelming these shared checks. Pairing Chandelure with Fighting-types like Mienshao, Gallade, and Scrafty helps it take on Dark-types like Incineroar and Alolan Muk, which it tends to struggle against. With how vulnerable Chandelure is to entry hazards, it pairs greatly with hazards removal from Talonflame, Tsareena, and Tentacruel. Vileplume, Wo-Chien, and Tsareena are great teammates for Chandelure, as they check the Ground- and Water-types that scare it out like Flygon, Basculegion, and Inteleon; on top of that, the former two teammates can spread paralysis with Stun Spore. Fire Blast gives Chandelure a powerful STAB Fire-type attack, but Flamethrower can be run for a more accurate move. Energy Ball hits Fire-resistant Pokemon like Diancie, Vaporeon, and Swampert. Trick cripples walls and bulky setup sweepers like Alolan Muk and Scrafty. When backed into a corner, Tera Grass lets Chandelure take a Water- or Ground-type attack and boosts its Energy Ball, but Tera Fire can help it clean more easily. With how Chandelure fails to do much of anything versus Dark-types like Incineroar and Alolan Muk, partners that can overwhelm, chip away at, or cripple these Pokemon are vital. So, pair Chandelure with teammates like Munkidori, Klefki, and Meloetta. Chandelure's middling Speed means more common opposing Choice Scarf users like Mienshao, Flygon, and Hisuian Typhlosion will easily outspeed and OHKO it. Placing Chandelure on a hyper offense team with Sticky Web support from Galvantula and setup sweepers like Breloom, Drednaw, and Gallade helps it circumvent its disappointing Speed tier and provides it tons of wallbreakers to help it clean weakened teams in the end-game. Chandelure's weakness to being worn down by entry hazards stops it from revenge killing as often as it would want to, so teammates like Tsareena, Talonflame, and Tentacruel are crucial. Fire Blast is preferred to 2HKO Alolan Muk after a Calm Mind boost and deal greater damage to other special walls like Umbreon and Florges, but Flamethrower can be used for its accuracy. Energy Ball targets common Water-, Rock-, and Ground-type switch-ins like Vaporeon, Diancie, and Gastrodon. Flash Fire gives Chandelure the ability to take advantage of Choice-locked Fire-types like Hisuian Typhlosion, Infernape, and opposing Chandelure. On the other hand, Flame Body lets Chandelure punish contact moves like Flygon's U-turn and Tsareena's Power Whip, but these targets and most others usually carry another move to hit Chandelure super effectively, negating its utility. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Chandelure to ignore entry hazards, letting it switch in repeatedly without worry. However, Air Balloon can be used instead to give Chandelure a temporary immunity to Ground-type attacks, giving Chandelure opportunities to set up against Earthquake Paldean Tauros-F and Choice-locked Flygon. Tera Grass boosts Energy Ball while giving Chandelure a resistance to Ground- and Water-type attacks from Pokemon like Flygon, Swampert, and Vaporeon. Tera Fairy can be used on Air Balloon sets to completely wall Flygon's STAB moves, and in general, it helps with taking Dark-type attacks from the likes of Bombirdier and Incineroar. Ground-types like Flygon and Gligar can destroy Chandelure with their STAB Earthquake, and they can also force it to Terastallize. Therefore, it best partners with defensive Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Swampert, as they can check the aforementioned Ground-types; in return, Chandelure handles Grass-types like Tsareena, Breloom, and Vileplume. Fairy- and Fighting-types like Sylveon, Toxicroak, and Paldean Tauros-W are great teammates for Chandelure, as they can handle the Dark-types like Umbreon, Incineroar, and Alolan Muk. Chandelure appreciates slow pivots like Swampert, Dragalge, and Bellibolt giving it a safe entry without the risk of taking damage. Galvantula and Araquanid are great partners for Chandelure, as they can set up Sticky Web to remedy Chandelure's underwhelming Speed, letting it outspeed and KO faster foes like Mienshao, Inteleon, and Paldean Tauros-W. On these teams, fellow setup sweepers like Swords Dance Toxicroak, Nasty Plot Munkidori, and Shell Smash Torterra can take advantage of Water-types, overwhelm Dark-types, and help beat Ground-types for Chandelure, respectively. Air Balloon Chandelure is vulnerable to Stealth Rock; thus, it pairs well with hazard removers like Brambleghast, Cinccino, and Tsareena. With a moveset of Will-O Wisp / Pain Split / Energy Ball / Hex, an EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 Spe, and a Bold nature, Chandelure, with Heavy-Duty Boots, can become an effective physical wall, spreading burns on the opposing team quite easily; however, most things it would want to check typically carry super effective coverage in Knock Off. Heavy-Duty Boots Chandelure can also run Flame Charge or Trailblaze to pick off weakened threats and sweep with its boosted Speed. Chandelure can run Hex on a status spreading team; however, it must give up a powerful STAB attack, coverage, or Trick to do so. Choice Scarf Chandelure can run Memento on a hyper offense team to try to aid its teammates in setting up once it becomes useless. Chandelure can also run Heavy-Duty Boots or Air Balloon to circumvent its entry hazards weakness and Ground-type weakness, respectively. If it runs these, though, it becomes noticeably weaker and slower.
Lunala (SS competitive strategy): Lunala is a mainstay defensive Pokemon often paired with the classic core of Yveltal, Eternatus, and Necrozma-DM, forming a defensive backbone that is very difficult to break. Its typing may look terrible, compounding weaknesses to Calyrex-S and Marshadow; however, it provides two immunities and a neutrality to most types. These defensive traits, Shadow Shield, Heavy-Duty Boots, and Roost let Lunala blanket check some of the most dangerous threats in the tier, such as Fire-type move Groudon, Zygarde-C, Zekrom, offensive Necrozma-DM, Rayquaza, and Mewtwo. Lunala excels in long games, where its unmatched reliability in checking strong threats gives it a unique niche. Shadow Shield also makes it a "get out of jail free" card, even stopping a Geomancy Xerneas sweep in an emergency. Lunala can also opt for a more offensive set that surprises common switch-ins like Yveltal with Meteor Beam while still offering defensive utility. However, Lunala's reliance on constantly using Roost to maintain Shadow Shield makes it one of the more predictable Pokemon in the tier. This tendency also sacrifices momentum; thus, more flexible defensive options such as Landorus-T are sometimes preferred. Lunala is also vulnerable to lure options, especially status moves such as Toxic from Groudon. Overall, the key to Lunala is using its defensive presence to let other teammates be more offensive while, at the same time, running teammates with some defensive utility of their own to make Lunala more flexible. Roost provides Lunala with reliable recovery and, in tandem with Heavy-Duty Boots, lets it consistently maintain Shadow Shield, even in the face of entry hazards. The choice of status move comes down to teammate choice. Will-O-Wisp covers more threats, allowing Lunala to check Zekrom and cripple Groudon and Necrozma-DM for the rest of the game. Thunder Wave stops Mewtwo lacking the rare Shadow Ball, and it is useful to take advantage of common switch-ins such as Yveltal and Eternatus. It notably makes Lunala much less reliable at checking Zekrom, though. Ice Beam does massive damage to Zygarde and Rayquaza, and it does great damage to Groudon and Zekrom. Hex is generally the preferred last move, as it makes Lunala less passive. Even without status, Hex can OHKO Calyrex-S and do good damage to Marshadow. With status, it allows Lunala to decently damage Necrozma-DM and Ferrothorn. Roar is useful for Zygarde, which can otherwise pressure Lunala through Substitute and status. It can also be useful in an emergency to stop a runaway sweep from Lum Berry Necrozma-DM, Geomancy Xerneas, or another sweeper with several boosts. Defog is a decent option for the Sticky Web matchup thanks to Heavy-Duty Boots and Lunala's good Speed. It is otherwise not recommended, as most entry hazard setters can cripple Lunala through Knock Off or status. The given EV spread outspeeds all base 95 Speed Pokemon such as Rayquaza and Galarian Darmanitan. Teammate choice depends on which moves Lunala has. Will-O-Wisp provides more security against Zekrom and Groudon, which is appreciated by teammates like Zygarde. Groudon makes for a great teammate for Thunder Wave sets, as it can check Zekrom, which Thunder Wave Lunala can't do well, and Lunala can paralyze Yveltal on the switch in return. Defensive Xerneas, Buzzwole, Zarude are also good partners, as they can take pressure off Lunala to stay healthy enough to check Zekrom and Zygarde. Yveltal is nigh-mandatory to switch into Calyrex-S. Offensive Yveltal in particular likes Defog Lunala, which prevents it from taking Stealth Rock damage. Eternatus, Zygarde, Xerneas, and Buzzwole can check Marshadow, and the former three can check Hone Claws Yveltal. Hex sets appreciate any teammate that can spread status, such as Thunder Wave Necrozma-DM. Ferrothorn can check Zekrom reliably and provide Spikes support, so it works great with any Thunder Wave or Roar set. Cleric support from Pokemon like Calyrex-S is much appreciated if available, as any form of status can ruin Lunala's day. Lunala naturally attracts switch-ins such as Yveltal and Ho-Oh, which makes an offensive Meteor Beam set a viable option. With great base Special Attack and a strong Moongeist Beam, Lunala can be a force to be reckoned with, especially at +1. Unfortunately, this set very much relies on the surprise factor of Meteor Beam, as it can easily be forced out by Calyrex-S, Marshadow, or Mystical Fire Eternatus, which severely limits its ability to sweep. A perk of this set is that, with Roost and Shadow Shield, Lunala can still provide useful defensive utility, even without significant HP investment. Ice Beam is Lunala's best coverage option, hitting Yveltal, Eternatus, and Zygarde hard. The combination of Ice Beam and Roost can let Lunala feign a defensive set, although a smart player will be able to tell the difference by using a damage calculator when Lunala deals or takes damage. This set works best when it can appear to be regular defensive Lunala at Team Preview. Due to this, it's not recommended on hyper offense builds such as Sticky Web teams, as that would ruin the surprise. This Lunala set can significantly weaken or outright KO Ho-Oh and Yveltal, which makes Calyrex-S an obvious option. Other options include Marshadow without Rock Tomb, Buzzwole, Urshifu-S, and Mewtwo. While Ghost-types work well together offensively, keep in mind that defensively they multiply weaknesses to opposing Ghost- and Dark-types. Yveltal and Ho-Oh help this matchup. Both Pokemon also offer Defog, which is mandatory for this set; Lunala being affected by entry hazards will instantly reveal that it has an offensive set. Moongeist Beam can be used over Hex for a stronger attack against foes without status afflictions. It can also be useful to check Lum Berry Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM when Lunala lacks Roar. Teleport is an interesting option to gain momentum on predicted switches. You must use it carefully because, since Teleport will always make Lunala move last, it can lead to Lunala taking damage and forcing a future Roost when a regular switch would have sufficed. Psyshock may be used on the Meteor Beam set to hit Blissey and Eternatus harder, but the other coverage options and Roost generally provide more utility.
Lunala (SV competitive strategy): Lunala possesses a small niche in Ubers as a setup sweeper thanks to its spammable STAB move, access to Agility, and good natural bulk courtesy of Shadow Shield. Its Ghost typing allows it to pressure notable threats like Necrozma-DM, Calyrex-I, and some Extreme Killer Arceus. However, Lunala faces direct competition from its fellow Ghost-types, Necrozma-DW, which fills an almost identical niche and is considerably stronger, and Flutter Mane, which boasts a better secondary typing and much better Speed. To make matters worse, even after a Special Attack boost, it lacks the power to get past many common defensive Pokemon in the tier, such as Ho-Oh, Eternatus, Ting-Lu, and Calm Mind Arceus formes. Additionally, Lunala's vulnerability to entry hazards and dependence on Tera to pick up KOs makes it difficult to justify on most teams. Agility aims to take advantage of Lunala's fantastic Ghost-type STAB move and respectable Special Attack to transform it into a threatening sweeper. Maximum Speed EVs and a Timid nature allow Lunala to outspeed the entire metagame, including even +1 Speed Koraidon and Miraidon, after an Agility boost. Focus Blast, in combination with Moongeist Beam, gives Lunala perfect neutral coverage, and it crucially hits Dark-type Pokemon like Ting-Lu, Arceus-Dark, Kingambit, and Chien-Pao for super effective damage, easily OHKOing the latter two. Focus Blast also allows Lunala to 2HKO Extreme Killer Arceus, though Lunala must be wary of a potential Shadow Claw. Moonblast is a perfectly accurate alternative that forms similarly great coverage with Moongeist Beam and always OHKOes Koraidon, but it deals significantly less damage to Ting-Lu and fails to 2HKO Arceus and OHKO Kingambit. Meteor Beam not only gives Lunala a Special Attack boost, but it also OHKOes Ho-Oh, which is an otherwise problematic check for Lunala to deal with. Tera Ghost boosts the power of Moongeist Beam, which, after a Special Attack boost, allows Lunala to OHKO many neutral targets, such as Koraidon, Miraidon, and Zacian-C. Tera Ghost also removes Lunala's 4x weakness to Dark- and Ghost-type moves, allowing it to survive them if Shadow Shield is intact. Tera Fighting is an option when Lunala is running Focus Blast to, with a Special Attack boost, have a chance to OHKO Ting-Lu after damage from entry hazards and always OHKO Arceus and Arceus-Dark, while Tera Fairy allows Lunala to always OHKO Miraidon and 2HKO Ting-Lu with a boosted Moonblast. Both Tera Fighting and Tera Fairy negate Lunala's weaknesses to Dark and Ghost, with Tera Fairy having the additional benefit of an immunity to the numerous Dragon-type moves used in Ubers, notably enabling Lunala to check Koraidon with Shadow Shield intact. Lunala finds itself almost exclusively on hyper offense teams that cannot fit a more potent option, such as Necrozma-DW, where its single-use setup is not a problem. Special sweepers like Eternatus and Miraidon alongside Lunala can overwhelm checks like Ting-Lu and Clodsire and clear the way for each other to sweep. Dedicated leads, such as Glimmora, Deoxys-S, and Deoxys-A, can hinder opposing teams from setting entry hazards while setting entry hazards themselves to weaken foes for Lunala. Ho-Oh lures like Zacian-C, Scale Shot Koraidon, and Necrozma-DM running Stone Edge make for great teammates, since Lunala has a much easier time sweeping once Ho-Oh is removed. In return, Lunala's ability to shut down dangerous sweepers, such as Extreme Killer Arceus and Calyrex-I, in an emergency with Shadow Shield frees teammates to run offensive Tera types; for example, Tera Grass on Miraidon with Solar Beam or forgoing Tera Ghost on Arceus and Koraidon in favor of Tera Normal and Tera Fire, respectively. Psyshock can be used to beat Eternatus, Clodsire, and the rare Blissey, but it leaves Lunala completely walled by Ting-Lu and is largely useless against the rest of the tier. Calm Mind can be used with Heavy-Duty Boots as a boosting option over Meteor Beam. However, being unable to threaten Ho-Oh can be detrimental to Lunala's chances of sweeping, and Lunala will rarely get more than one turn to set up, so the immediate power of Meteor Beam is preferable.
Leavanny (XY competitive strategy): Leavanny stands out as the best Sticky Web user in the PU metagame thanks to its high Speed stat, as well as having the greatest offensive presence of all Sticky Web users. Leavanny also has access to useful support moves in Electroweb and Magic Coat, the former of which provides additional speed control while allowing it to hit common Defog users such as Swanna and Pelipper, and the latter of which helps it bounce back entry hazards such as Spikes from Pokemon such as Venipede. Leavanny's access to Knock Off also allows it to cripple Pokemon such as Vullaby. However, Leavanny has only a few niches and can only perform the role of a Sticky Web user. Leavanny's average defenses and poor defensive typing also limit its time on the battlefield. Sticky Web provides speed control and allows Pokemon such as Stoutland and Simipour to outspeed Choice Scarf users on the opponent's team. Leaf Storm hits common Stealth Rock users such as Stunfisk and Golem, and the Special Attack drop won't matter, as Leavanny is a suicide lead. Knock Off hits bulky Eviolite users such as Tangela and Misdreavus, which makes them easier to deal with. Electroweb hits Flying-types, which are immune to Sticky Web, particularly Pelipper and Swanna; provides additional speed control; and cripples faster Pokemon such as Simipour. Magic Coat bounces back entry hazards from Pokemon such as Venipede and Taunt from Pokemon such as Floatzel and Simipour; however, it is quite risky to use on other entry hazard setters such as Roselia. This EV spread and a Naive nature allow Leavanny to outspeed as many Pokemon as possible while maintaining an offensive presence. Chlorophyll gives Leavanny a better matchup against sun teams, making it easier for it to set up Sticky Web. Focus Sash allows Leavanny to survive at least one hit, guaranteeing the setup of Sticky Web. Most of the time, Leavanny should be used as a suicide lead to set up Sticky Web. However, if the opposing team has an entry hazard remover that Leavanny has trouble dealing with, such as Vullaby or Vibrava, Leavanny should be kept for later. If Leavanny is sent out as a suicide lead, setting up Sticky Web should be its main priority. Electroweb should be used to prevent setup sweepers such as Fraxure from freely boosting. Leavanny could also use Magic Coat to bounce back entry hazards such as Stealth Rock once it has finished setting up Sticky Web, but it is quite risky, as Golem has Rock Blast to take care of it and break through its Focus Sash. Leavanny only fits on hyper offensive teams, because they are able to deal with entry hazard removers much better than balanced and stall teams can. A spinblocker, such as Misdreavus, can prevent spinners from removing Leavanny's Sticky Web once it has fainted. Purugly is also able to pressure Defog users such as Vullaby and Pelipper thanks to Defiant. Fast Electric-types such as Zebstrika and Raichu are able to deal with Flying-types such as Dodrio, which are immune to Sticky Web. Electabuzz also makes for a good partner thanks to its ability to pivot in on Flying-types. Wallbreakers such as Stoutland and Simipour appreciate Sticky Web support so that they can outspeed Choice Scarf users such as Mr. Mime. Stealth Rock from the likes of Probopass and Golem is useful to deal further chip damage; they can also take on Flying-types for Leavanny. Leaf Blade could be used over Leaf Storm to capitalize on Leavanny's solid Attack stat, but Leaf Storm does more damage to common leads. The combination of Swarm and X-Scissor could be used, but Leavanny lacks the moveslot for X-Scissor and Chlorophyll is better for a decent chance against sun teams. Swords Dance could be used for Leavanny to sweep, but Leavanny finds it hard to sweep because of its poor defensive typing, and Sawsbuck and Leafeon are better choices for an offensive Grass-type. Toxic could be used to cripple walls such as Tangela and Gourgeist-XL, but Leavanny lacks the moveslot for it.
Leavanny (SM competitive strategy): Due its decent Speed stat, offensive presence, and useful support moves, Leavanny stands its ground as an acceptable Sticky Web user in PU. Leavanny's decent Attack stat, good STAB moves, and Bug / Grass typing give it a good matchup against common Stealth Rock users in PU such as Torterra, Regirock, and Mudsdale, and access to Knock Off lets Leavanny cripple Pokemon holding items like Eviolite and Leftovers. Leavanny also gets Magic Coat, which lets it bounce back entry hazards and status moves such as Taunt and Encore against foes like Sableye and Liepard. However, Leavanny's bad defensive typing, Stealth Rock weakness, and average bulk make it very easy to wear down, which means it can't keep up Sticky Web reliably during the match. Leavanny's typing also makes it weak to common Defoggers such as Skuntank and Swanna. Finally, Leavanny faces heavy competition from superior Sticky Web setters in Shuckle, who offers far better bulk and access to additional utility in Stealth Rock and Encore, and Smeargle, who similarly has access to utility such as Spore, Stealth Rock and Nuzzle that makes it more desirable on the majority of Sticky Web teams. Sticky Web is the only reason for using Leavanny, lowering opposing grounded Pokemon's Speed by one stage. Knock Off removes items such as Leftovers and Eviolite from opposing Pokemon like Ferroseed, which cripples them for the rest of the battle. Magic Coat could also be used to bounce entry hazards such as Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Toxic Spikes from Pokemon like Ferroseed, Roselia, and Qwilfish and Taunt from Pokemon like Lycanroc and Sableye. Focus Sash is the preferred item because Leavanny is used as a suicide lead and it guarantees Sticky Web to go up at least once in the match while also activating Leavanny's ability Swarm. Swarm is the preferred ability due to its ability to boost the power of X-Scissor after the Focus Sash is consumed. Leavanny should be used as a lead to set up Sticky Web early on. However, if the opponent has an entry hazard remover such as Swanna or Skuntank that can't be pressured enough, you can keep Leavanny around to set Sticky Web later. Leavanny's main priority is to set Sticky Web, but in some cases it can be used offensively. If Leavanny has already set up Sticky Web and is facing a Stealth Rock or Spikes user that cannot be removed like Alolan Sandslash or Ferroseed, spamming Magic Coat to at least get the hazards on your opponent's side of the field too before being KOed is a good idea. Leavanny should be used on hyper offensive teams that can exploit Sticky Web. Good partners for Leavanny are the Pokemon that take most advantage of Sticky Web such as Zangoose and Haunter. Offensive Pokemon that can spinblock also make good partners for Leavanny, as they can simultaneously keep Sticky Web on the field and benefit from the Speed drops. Oricorio-G is a particularly good spinblocker because it also pressures Skuntank with its Supersonic Skystrike. Golurk is another notable spinblocker, since it also provides Stealth Rock and acts as a solid Primeape check, which can be a pain to deal with on Sticky Web teams due to its ability Defiant. Conversely, Pokemon that can punish Defog with Defiant or Contrary like Primeape, Pawniard and Servine are also great partners for Leavanny. Electric-types such as Eelektross and Lanturn help deal with Flying-type Pokemon like Articuno and Swanna, which are immune to Sticky Web. Chlorophyll and Overcoat could be used over Swarm; Chlorophyll provides a better matchup against sun teams and Overcoat protects Leavanny from being KOed from Aurorus or Abomasnow's hail after it has been knocked down to its Focus Sash. However, sun teams aren't common and weather damage doesn't really stop Leavanny from setting Sticky Web. A Swords Dance set could be used due to Leavanny's decent Speed and Attack stats, but this is done better by other Grass-types in the tier such as Leafeon with its better stats and Shiftry with its better offensive typing and priority. A mixed set with Electroweb / Leaf Storm / Knock Off or Magic Coat / Sticky Web could be used too; Electroweb hampers leads such as Lycanroc with the Speed drop and prevents Swanna from using Defog. Leaf Storm hits physical walls such as Mudsdale harder than Leaf Blade, and Knock Off and Magic Coat are used in the same way as the main set. However, mixed Leavanny struggles with Skuntank and Assault Vest Hitmonchan.
Leavanny (SV competitive strategy): Leavanny is almost certainly not the best choice to be a Tera Captain, as it is not strong enough to make use of offensive Tera types even with Chlorophyll and not bulky enough to utilize defensive Tera types effectively. If it were literally the only choice, Tera Ghost would allow it to prevent Rapid Spin, and both Tera Fire and Tera Rock could provide it extra coverage while flipping its weaknesses. Leavanny is the fastest bottom-tier Sticky Web user with additional utility in and out of sun; occasionally, it has a positive matchup against teams weak to its coverage or with limited entry hazard removal options.
Shiinotic (SM competitive strategy): Shiinotic serves as a decent defensive Pokemon in ZU thanks to its typing, decent bulk, access to Strength Sap and Spore. Additionally, Effect Spore lets it reliably check many viable threats such as Silvally-Fighting, Silvally-Dark, Torterra, and Golem, while Spore can catch an incoming wallbreaker or setup sweeper off guard and put them to sleep. It's also able to spread status with Effect Spore to punish U-turn users like Silvally-Dark and Silvally-Dragon trying to pivot out. While Shiinotic mainly functions as a wall, it also threatens frailer Pokemon such as Crustle and Purugly with a moderately strong Moonblast and Giga Drain thanks to its decent attacking power, and, along with its naturally high Special Defense, it can soft check common special attackers like Silvally-Dragon, Simipour, and Kadabra, which further separates it from other defensive Grass-types in Gourgeist-XL and Torterra. However, it faces some stiff competition from them, since Torterra is able to provide Stealth Rock support, and Gourgeist-XL is able to further hinder physical attackers with Will-O-Wisp. For a physical wall, Shiinotic has mediocre physical bulk and cannot reliably switch into certain physical attackers that Gourgeist-XL can check like Marowak, Bouffalant, and Choice Band Komala, making it difficult for Shiinotic to fit onto teams sometimes. Furthermore, it can easily be worn down by entry hazards and chip damage, as it is one of the slowest Pokemon in the metagame. Strength Sap can also be exploited by the likes of Bronzor and Mareanie due to their low Attack stat, reducing how much health Shiinotic recovers. Shiinotic is also hard walled by threats like Bronzor, Muk, and Lickilicky, all of which either take it out completely or recover any damage dealt to them. Spore cripples potential switch-ins like Swanna and Bronzor with sleep and debilitates special attacking switch-ins or walls that Gourgeist-XL can't touch. Strength Sap is Shiinotic's form of recovery and hinders physical attackers at the same time by weakening their attacks. Leech Seed is an option over Giga Drain to give Shiinotic a form of passive recovery while wearing the foe down. With the extra physical bulk, Shiinotic can survive one Return from Choice Band Komala and one Avalanche from Avalugg, while Leftovers gives it some passive recovery. Effect Spore has a chance to punish physical attackers like Silvally-Fighting and Silvally-Dark with status. Shiinotic is best used as a check to physical attackers with Effect Spore and as a means to put foes to sleep with Spore. The best way to utilize Effect Spore is to switch Shiinotic into common U-turn users like Silvally-Fighting and Silvally-Dark to cripple them with status. Shiinotic can do the same against common physical attackers like Machoke, Leafeon, and Torterra, but it should be wary of a Swords Dance-boosted Z-Move like Breakneck Blitz from Leafeon or Continental Crush from Torterra, as both will OHKO it. Strength Sap is best used when Shiinotic is low on HP or there's a physical wallbreaker on the opposing side of the field to recover its HP right back and hinder them. Since the EV spread focuses on physical bulk, keeping Shiinotic away from common special wallbreakers like Beheeyem and Choice Specs Exeggutor will allow it to do its job better in the long run. Shiinotic can be fairly predictable with either Strength Sap or Spore; threats like Komala, Vigoroth, and Grass-types can come in on a Spore and get a free turn, whereas Clear Body Pokemon like Metang avoid the Attack drop that comes with Strength Sap, so move prediction must be taken with care. Shiinotic fits best on a team that needs a defensive teammate that can absorb Knock Offs and plenty of U-turns from the opposing team. Therefore, teammates that appreciate Knock Off users like Machoke and Leafeon being gone, like Bronzor and Mareanie, appreciate Shiinotic's presence so they can benefit from their items much longer. Partners like Choice Band Komala, Metang, and Choice Band Golem help Shiinotic deal with Poison- and Steel-types that it doesn't like. Water-type walls like Mareanie and Poliwrath help check the physical Fire- and Steel-type attackers like Combusken, Rapidash, and Pawniard that Shiinotic can't handle; in return, it helps check Electric- and Grass-types. Since Shiinotic's special bulk is subpar, special walls like Lickilicky, Probopass, and Muk can all take hits for it and reliably recover any lost HP, while it can take the physical moves they can't. Shiinotic appreciates entry hazard removers like Komala and Mareanie because of its susceptibility to chip damage and Toxic Spikes. It also appreciates teammates like Electivire, Raichu, and Probopass that can handle Flying-types such as Swanna, Rotom-S, and Toucannon. Fairium Z can be run to preserve Shiinotic's item when tanking a Knock Off as well as to OHKO potential switch-ins that are expecting a Strength Sap or Giga Drain like Pawniard and Combusken and heavily damage Sap Sipper switch-ins such as Bouffalant and Sawsbuck. However, this does take up the Z-Move slot, is preferable on bulkier teams that do not have a better Z-Move user, and takes away the residual recovery that Shiinotic appreciates for its longevity.
Shiinotic (SS competitive strategy): Shiinotic is a great physical wall due to its unique typing and moveset letting it check a number of threats like Sawk, Thwackey, and Appletun. Spore can put switch-ins like Silvally-Poison and Ninetales out of commission, and the move itself forces many switches. The last moveslot can be dedicated to either Toxic, which punishes Pokemon that are immune to Spore like Tangela and Sap Sipper Miltank and puts foes on a timer, or Giga Drain, which makes Shiinotic more reliable at dealing with Ground- and Water-types, such as Rhydon and Poliwrath. No item is run to avoid Poltergeist from Gourgeist formes and Trevenant; however, Rocky Helmet can be used to punish Pokemon that use contact moves such as Kangaskhan and Gurdurr. Slower wallbreakers, like Thievul and Swords Dance Rhydon, that are weak to common fast Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Sawk and Thwackey appreciate Shiinotic's ability to answer them and create opportunities for them to wallbreak with Spore and Effect Spore. Popular Ground-types and Water-types such as Stunfisk and Poliwrath easily fold to threats handled by Shiinotic like Appletun, Morpeko, and Silvally-Water. In return, they answer Poison- and Flying-types like Skuntank and Unfezant and Steel- and Fire-types like Klinklang and Ninetales, respectively, that Shiinotic is weak to. Offensive teammates like Rotom and Jynx as well as defensive options like Rhydon and Hattrem greatly appreciate Shiinotic's ability to absorb Knock Off. Setup sweepers like Ninetales and various Silvally formes also get an immense advantage out of the free turns provided by Spore, and enjoy walls getting crippled by a surprise Toxic. Choice Specs sets can surprise opponents expecting the standard set, and have decent breaking power. However, they lose out on most of what makes Shiinotic effective and are usually outclassed by other options such as Exeggutor and Appletun.
Passimian (SM competitive strategy): Passimian takes the role of a capable revenge killer in NU thanks to the combination of its formidable attacking power, good bulk, and relatively high Speed tier, enabling it to fit on a variety of teams. Possessing a great movepool consisting of good coverage options such as Knock Off, Gunk Shot, and Earthquake alongside a pivot move in U-turn lets Passimian break through certain checks depending on what moves it chooses to run. Its Fighting typing allows it to check the majority of Dark-, Ice-, and Steel-types in the tier such as Incineroar, Mega Glalie, and Steelix, making it a valuable choice on any team that needs a reliable revenge killer for the aforementioned threats. While it has a good Speed tier, it still can be outsped by quite a few offensive Pokemon, such as opposing Choice Scarf users like Togedemaru, Delphox, and Rotom as well as Vivillon after a setup boost. It can also be worn down rather quickly due to the lack of reliable recovery, which is further problematic because of its tendency to pivot in repeatedly against common threats such as Incineroar and Aerodactyl throughout the match. Close Combat is Passimian's strongest STAB option, letting it deal massive damage to the majority of neutral targets in the tier. U-turn acts as a great momentum provider, allowing Passimian to pivot out against the threats that intend to check it, such as Slowking and Palossand, as well as provide useful pivoting utility for its team. Knock Off is a great coverage option that lets Passimian hit Ghost- and Psychic-types, which otherwise check Passimian due to them being immune or resistant to its STAB attack. It also provides the extra utility of removing items, such as Eviolite from threats like Golbat and Rhydon, letting Passimian provide useful support for its teammates and wallbreak more easily later on in the match. Gunk Shot is a great coverage move to deal massive damage against Fairy-types such as Whimsicott and Mega Audino, which otherwise annoy Passimian. Earthquake can be run to let Passimian safely revenge kill Calm Mind Delphox and is Passimian's best form of damage against Garbodor. Rock Slide can also be run to hit Golbat, Vikavolt, and Delphox super effectively. EVs are fully invested in Attack and Speed with a Jolly nature to enhance Passimian's wallbreaking capabilities. A Choice Scarf cements Passimian's role as a formidable revenge killer, enabling it to outspeed the majority of the unboosted metagame and threaten out other offensive Pokemon with its powerful STAB attacks and great coverage. Defiant, although situational, lets Passimian switch into moves like Silvally-Steel's Parting Shot and Rotom's Defog, providing it with a +2 Attack boost. Passimian is generally utilized to provide momentum for its team when utilizing a Choice Scarf, as its ability to force switches enables it to pivot out against the majority of threats with ease thanks to U-turn. While it is generally preferred to pivot out versus the opposing threat, Passimian should also be mindful if the foe decides to stay in, in which case using one of its coverage moves may be more desirable. However, it must be mindful of mindlessly spamming its STAB move in Close Combat, as it can often leave it in a predicament where it is forced to switch out, as threats such as Rotom, Weezing, and Palossand can easily come in and gain momentum. Passimian should take advantage of its typing and good physical bulk to pivot into threats like Incineroar, Aerodactyl, and Absol. Knock Off is a great move that can be spammed the majority of the time when Passimian is not pivoting out via U-turn, as Knock Off can even cripple threats that resist it by removing useful items from Pokemon like Weezing, Whimsicott, and Vaporeon. Wallbreakers that appreciate Passimian's ability to provide momentum such as Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Aerodactyl can be useful, as they are able to come onto the battlefield more reliably as a result. Aerodactyl is especially useful in Pursuit trapping Ghost-types that can otherwise dissuade Passimian from spamming its STAB attack. Entry hazard setters like Steelix, Ferroseed, and Rhydon all aid Passimian in wearing down opposing walls through entry hazard chip damage, letting it revenge kill threats more reliably. Pokemon such as Garbodor, Rotom, and Incineroar can switch into the Fairy-, Flying-, and Psychic-types that threaten Passimian like Whimsicott, Braviary, and Sigilyph. Garbodor also provides entry hazard setting support, while Rotom can remove them. Partners that can take on Flying-types like Sneasel and Aerodactyl can help Passimian deal with threatening Pokemon such as Braviary, Golbat, and Vivillon. Dark-types such as Guzzlord and Incineroar can also help check Psychic-types that can threaten Passimian, while Passimian can break through opposing Dark-types in return. Grass-types like Sceptile, Whimsicott, and Dhelmise can all break through Passimian's most common checks, such as Palossand and defensive Slowking, letting it wallbreak more easily. Sceptile is especially useful in wearing down opposing physical walls for Passimian, while Passimian can take on Sceptile's checks such as Incineroar and Ferroseed in return. Other U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Heliolisk, Vikavolt, and Xatu can form formidable VoltTurn cores alongside Passimian, applying great offensive pressure onto the opposing team as they proceed to pivot out against incoming switch-ins. Passimian can utilize certain Z-Crystals like Rockium Z to function as a lure to checks like Golbat and Flyinium Z Sigilyph while letting it bluff a Choice item set, although the utility Choice Scarf provides is hard to pass up. Additionally, such sets are very matchup based. Equipping a Choice Band turns Passimian into a devastating wallbreaker, being incredibly difficult to switch into, although it misses out on the revenge killing capabilities of the Choice Scarf set.
Passimian (SS competitive strategy): Passimian is the only Fighting-type Pokemon in the tier that can perform the roles of a revenge killer and pivot with U-turn. Its access to coverage moves like Rock Slide and Gunk Shot allows it to punish its checks in Flying- and Fairy-types like Talonflame and Sylveon. With a Choice Scarf, it's able to outpace Pokemon like Tauros, Talonflame, and Tyrantrum after a Dragon Dance and KO them with its attacks. With a Choice Band, Passimian becomes capable of breaking past traditional Fighting-type checks like Talonflame and Sylveon with its raw power. Choice Scarf Passimian, though, cannot revenge kill certain threats like +1 Silvally-Ground and Choice Scarf Rotom-C. Meanwhile, Choice Band Passimian still cannot reliably bypass certain Fighting-type checks such as Vileplume and Weezing. Passimian faces a lot of risk-reward situations by being Choice locked like using Rock Slide to predict the Flying-type switch-in in front of a Steel-type like Copperajah. Passimian also must avoid status effects from foes like Talonflame's Flame Body and Vileplume's Effect Spore, which discourage U-turn. Knock Off prevents Psychic- and Ghost-types like Xatu, Starmie, and Golurk from safely switching in on a predicted Close Combat. Rock Slide hits Flying- and Bug-types like Talonflame and Ninjask. Gunk Shot is an option over Rock Slide to hit Fairy-types like Sylveon. Earthquake is also an option in the last moveslot to hit Poison-types like Toxicroak, Garbodor, and Salazzle, notably OHKOing the latter as compared to Rock Slide. Poison- and Steel-types like Garbodor, Escavalier, and Copperajah can switch into Fairy-types like Sylveon and Diancie. They all also provide entry hazard support to help wear down Pokemon and allow Passimian to pick up KOs. Rock-types such as Aerodactyl, Diancie, and Tyrantrum are appreciated to deal with Flying-types like Ninjask, Xatu, and Talonflame. Although Passimian has Knock Off for Psychic-types, running a Dark-type like Guzzlord or Drapion is encouraged to help with Pokemon like Starmie and Decidueye. Passimian helps Dark-types deal with opposing Dark-types they struggle to break with Close Combat. Psychic-types also make great teammates, as they can KO Poison-types like Salazzle, Vileplume, and Weezing. Wallbreakers like Choice Specs Exploud, Golurk, and Silvally-Ground appreciate opportunities to come into play with U-turn. Pokemon like Sylveon, Vaporeon, and Diancie are useful clerics to remove status ailments with Heal Bell. Knock Off weakens and cripples common checks in Talonflame, Weezing, and Sylveon, making it easier to wallbreak later on. Gunk Shot primarily targets Sylveon, though it is also a strong, non-contact move that eases prediction against teams with status ailment abilities or Rocky Helmet users. Alternatively, Rock Slide OHKOes Talonflame and can induce flinching against foes such as Xatu and Mantine. Earthquake may also be a coverage option, specifically targeting Garbodor, a road block for Passimian. Due to Passimian's reliance on contact moves, clerics in Diancie, Sylveon, and Vaporeon are excellent partners to prevent foes like Vileplume and Talonflame from punishing it with their abilities. Partners such as Escavalier, Salazzle, and Xatu can help to accommodate for Passimian's weaknesses to Poison-, Fairy-, and Flying-types. Furthermore, protection against Salazzle and Silvally-Ground is necessary, since they can exploit Passimian if it locks into a bad move. As such, defensive staples such as Vaporeon and Mantine are appreciated. Offensive partners such as Rotom-C and Decidueye can also help form offensive cycles to pressure the opposing team, with the latter's checks overlapping with many of Passimian's. Protective Pads gives Passimian the freedom to mispredict more safely against potential switch-ins like Sylveon and Xatu while also preventing adverse contact effects like Weezing's Rocky Helmet, Talonflame's Flame Body, and Vileplume's Effect Spore. Facade is an option so Passimian isn't completely useless if it gets a status ailment, notably a burn.
Sandaconda (SS competitive strategy): Sandaconda is able to serve as a consistent Stealth Rock user and Electric-immune Pokemon with its natural bulk and Shed Skin. With Shed Skin and Rest, Sandaconda is able to remain healthy throughout the game to check Pokemon like Gigalith, Aggron, and Togedemaru. Sandaconda also provides speed control with Glare, making it less easy to take advantage of. Sandaconda's decent Speed and Attack mean it can even commit to a Coil set, although its typing and poor Special Defense leaves it forced out by tier staples like Whimsicott. However, Sandaconda still faces some competition from Aggron as a Stealth Rock user, as it has better bulk and is usually less passive. Shed Skin is also not consistent, making it unsafe to be overly dependent on Rest. Sandaconda is able to cripple Pokemon it cannot touch with Earthquake like Mesprit and Archeops with Glare. Rest is able to keep Sandaconda healthy and is more reliable in combination with Shed Skin. Rocky Helmet allows Sandaconda to wear down Pokemon such as Togedemaru. Leftovers gives Sandaconda more sustainability, but it is often switching into Knock Off from Pokemon like Absol anyway. The Speed investment allows Sandaconda to outspeed Adamant Aggron. Pokemon like Togedemaru and Lanturn are able to provide Wish and cleric support respectively so Sandaconda is less reliant on Shed Skin, and can sponge special attacks from Pokemon such as Ribombee and Charizard. In return, Sandaconda can switch into strong physical attackers like Lycanroc and Archeops. Wallbreakers such as Gallade and Magmortar are able to capitalize on Sandaconda spreading paralysis. Sandaconda can run Stone Edge over Glare to hit Flying-types like Archeops at the cost of providing less support. With Coil, recovery, and the ability to expel status conditions with Shed Skin, Sandaconda becomes a dangerous threat late-game. Ground- and Rock-type moves hit the entire tier for neutral coverage. Stone Edge has more power and a higher critical hit chance but low PP, while Rock Slide has less power but higher PP, which is useful in longer games where the opponent can stall out Stone Edge PP. The Speed investment allows Sandaconda to move before Adamant Aggron, with the remainder of its EVs allocated to its special bulk. Some physical bulk could be useful to ease setup against Pokemon like Silvally formes. Grass- and Water-types such as Whimsicott and Wishiwashi prevent Sandaconda from setting up, so teammates that can switch into and threaten such foes are crucial to Sandaconda's success. Ferroseed has the bulk and typing to handle a majority of offensive Grass- and Water-types, and can take advantage of their presence as an opportunity to lay entry hazards. Charizard and Gourgeist-S similarly threaten the Grass- and Water-types that Sandaconda dislikes. These teammates also appreciate Sandaconda turning Archeops and Togedemaru into setup fodder late game, as they are forced out by both of them. Grass-type breakers like Trevenant and Gourgeist-S can bait in and wear down opposing Ground-type checks like Tangela and Weezing, while also forcing out Water-types like Poliwrath and Quagsire. Stealth Rock setters such as Gigalith can allow Sandaconda to run Coil by filling in the role of a Stealth Rock user.
Sandaconda (SV competitive strategy): Sandaconda is a good defensive Pokemon in SV ZU thanks to its bulk and Shed Skin. The increased reliability of Rest as recovery lends Sandaconda the longevity to check Pokemon like Muk and Passimian. Options like Stealth Rock, Glare, and Coil diversify Sandaconda into a great support Pokemon or a bulky setup sweeper. Sandaconda is an excellent Terastallization user to boot, enhancing its defensive profile to become even tougher to break or enabling its own sweeps. However, Shed Skin does not make Rest perfectly reliable, hampering Sandaconda's consistency. Physical attackers with super effective STAB moves like Glastrier and Virizion are very problematic for Sandaconda and coerce it to burn Terastallization for its team. Despite its Electric immunity, Sandaconda's lower special bulk can leave it to be overwhelmed by coverage and additional STAB attacks from Jolteon, Magneton, and Rotom. Sandaconda also faces competition from Regirock, another Stealth Rock setter that much more reliably takes on physical attackers like Snorlax, Glastrier, and Sneasel. Sandaconda is a great wall thanks to its natural bulk, Shed Skin, and Ground typing. Common physical attackers like Muk, Passimian, and Regirock struggle to break through Sandaconda, and its great defensive profile enables it to consistently set up Stealth Rock. Rock Blast lets Sandaconda strike foes such as Articuno, Charizard, and Oricorio-F that it cannot touch with Earthquake. Alternatively, Glare lets Sandaconda spread paralysis and punish Pokemon like Dipplin, Orthworm, and Virizion that it would deal little damage to anyway. Rest and Shed Skin can keep Sandaconda healthy, although the inconsistency of Shed Skin can leave it out to dry. Rocky Helmet helps Sandaconda further wear down physical attackers like Snorlax and Regirock trying to break through it, and it enables Sandaconda to punish U-turn from pivots like Mesprit and Passimian. Tera Poison makes Sandaconda a more reliable wall to physical attackers like Passimian, Brute Bonnet, and Virizion. Tera Ghost makes Sandaconda an even more sturdy wall to physical setup sweepers like Snorlax and Regirock, improves its matchups against Fighting-types like Passimian and Hisuian Sneasel, and lets it spinblock Sandslash and Hitmontop. Tera Water helps Sandaconda handle physically offensive Ice-types like Sneasel, Beartic, and Glastrier. Sandaconda is a good physical wall for balanced teams looking to compress entry hazard setting on a teammate that isn't bothered as much by residual damage and status compared to Regirock, Orthworm, and Sandslash. Bulkier offensive teams also benefit from the utility and bulk Sandaconda offers in Glare and absorbing status from Weezing and Muk for offensive teammates. Sandaconda's Water weakness makes speical walls like Lanturn, Whimsicott, and Snorlax helpful for managing Clawitzer. Sandaconda is not offensively threatening to walls like Dipplin and Articuno, so teammates like Magneton and Charizard can compensate for Sandaconda's poor matchup against them and have an easier time against said targets if Sandaconda has paralyzed them with Glare. Sandaconda invites in hazard setters like Mesprit and Orthworm due to its passivity, so teamamates that can remove hazards like Lurantis and Hitmontop make good partners for Sandaconda. Sandaconda serves as a deadly late-game threat with the powerful combination of Coil, Rest, and Shed Skin. Earthquake hits most of the tier for at least neutral damage, while Sandaconda's other attacking move hits Pokemon that are immune to Earthquake like Oricorio-F and Dodrio. Scale Shot allows Sandaconda to boost its Speed, outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame except for common Choice Scarf users like Typhlosion at +2. Alternatively, Stone Edge doesn't drop Sandaconda's Defense and has more immediate potential to threaten Flying-types like Oricorio-F, Articuno, and Charizard. Rest acts as excellent recovery to keep Sandaconda healthy and combines well with Shed Skin to make it more reliable and help it serve as a wall in early- and mid-game scenarios, especially when combined with Tera Dragon to flip matchups on common Water- and Grass-types like Lanturn and Rotom-C. Coil Sandaconda can opt to run less Speed in exchange for more bulk, with 224 Speed EVs and a neutral nature being enough to outpace base 110 Speed Pokemon at +1; however, running these Speed EVs means it no longer outspeeds common Chlorophyll sweepers like Victreebel and faster Choice Scarf users like Shaymin at +2. Sandaconda can also opt to run Attack investment instead of HP, but this makes it more difficult to wall the foes it's tasked with setting up on late-game. Levitate users such as Mesprit and Rotom serve as potentially problematic Pokemon, since they are immune to Earthquake and can become fully immune to Sandaconda's moves, if it's running Scale Shot, with Tera Fairy, so specially bulky teammates like Porygon2 and Snorlax can be extremely helpful to counteract them. Orthworm poses similar issues due to Earth Eater and Iron Defense, so wallbreakers that threaten it like Charizard and Typhlosion are invaluable as teammates. These two as well as Dodrio and Glastrier also threaten Grass-types, which cause problems for Sandaconda pre-Terastallization. Water-types pose similar issues while also often carrying super effective coverage for Terastallized Sandaconda, so teammates like Snorlax, Poliwrath, and Virizion benefit it greatly. In return for all of these potential partners' help, Sandaconda turns many physical attackers into setup fodder. Some common examples of Pokemon completely walled by it late-game include Passimian, Muk, and Regirock; after Terastallization, this list expands to include other threats like Lanturn and Rotom-C. Sandaconda has access to Body Press, which does hit Orthworm and Snorlax harder, but Rock Blast and Scale Shot provide better general coverage against most Pokemon immune to Ground. High Horsepower can be run instead of Earthquake if Thwackey is a teammate.
Gumshoos (SM competitive strategy): Although it has access to U-turn and can use Stakeout to take advantage of forced switches and become a decently strong wallbreaker, there is very little reason to consider using Gumshoos over other, much more consistent Normal-types such as Stoutland and Kangaskhan. Aside from the competition Gumshoos faces as a Normal-type wallbreaker, it is also held back by its low Speed and mediocre defenses, as they limit its wallbreaking capabilities and make it rather easy to revenge kill. This set attempts to use Gumshoos's high Attack, decent movepool, and Stakeout to turn it into a threatening wallbreaker that can exploit its potential to put teams on the back foot. However, Dodrio and Stoutland directly outclass it as a Normal-type Choice Band user due to their higher Speed tiers, the former's secondary Flying typing and access to priority, and the latter's better bulk and access to Scrappy, which prevents Ghost-types from freely switching into Return.
Iron Bundle (SV competitive strategy): Iron Bundle is one of the foremost speed control options in Ubers thanks to its fantastic offensive typing and the fact that it is one of the few Pokemon surpassing the critical base 135 Speed tier. Hydro Pump and Freeze-Dry give Iron Bundle perfect coverage, and Ice Beam deals considerable damage to many prominent threats in the tier, such as Koraidon, Miraidon, Eternatus, and Arceus-Ground. Unfortunately, Iron Bundle is hampered by its dreadful defensive typing and special bulk, which leaves most teams with abundant means of OHKOing it; for example, even uninvested attacks such as Judgment from the Arceus formes and Dynamax Cannon from defensive Eternatus can OHKO Iron Bundle. As a result, Iron Bundle has difficulty getting safely onto the battlefield without the help of pivoting moves from its teammates. Additionally, Iron Bundle must be wary of potential status moves from the likes of defensive Arceus formes, Kyogre, Giratina-O, Eternatus, and Gliscor, since paralysis renders Iron Bundle completely useless, while poison and burn exacerbate Iron Bundle's problems with longevity. Heavy-Duty Boots mitigates Iron Bundle's crippling weakness to entry hazards, allowing it to repeatedly come in and threaten the myriad of Pokemon it outspeeds and hits for super effective damage, such as Koraidon, Miraidon, and Arceus-Ground. Taunt prevents walls like defensive Arceus formes, Ting-Lu, and Necrozma-DM from using recovery or status moves. Additionally, Iron Bundle is one of the fastest Taunt users in the tier, letting it block entry hazards from dedicated leads or shut down setup sweepers in an emergency. Encore is an alternative option that performs better against foes attempting to use setup moves at the cost of being unable to prevent status moves and hazards. Tera Ghost gives Iron Bundle immunities to Extreme Speed and Fighting-type moves, which helps it significantly against Arceus, Rayquaza, and Choice Scarf Koraidon. Tera Ice boosts the power of Iron Bundle's Ice-type moves, allowing it to OHKO Koraidon and Miraidon with Ice Beam and 2HKO Kyogre with Freeze-Dry. Although Iron Bundle boasts a phenomenal Speed stat and offensive typing, it needs the help of its teammates to overcome its terrible defensive profile and lack of power. Miraidon is an ideal teammate, since it can wallbreak for Iron Bundle, bring it in safely with U-turn, and give it a Quark Drive boost by setting Electric Terrain, enabling Iron Bundle to outspeed even Choice Scarf Koraidon, Zacian-C, and Dragon Dance Arceus formes. Additionally, Iron Bundle threatens the Ground-types that frequently switch in against Miraidon. Kyogre can set rain to strengthen Iron Bundle's Hydro Pump, and together, they can overwhelm bulky Water-resistant Pokemon such as Arceus-Water and Eternatus. Entry hazard support from the likes of Ting-Lu, Gliscor, Necrozma-DM, and Arceus-Fairy wears down foes for Iron Bundle. Ting-Lu and Gliscor can also switch into any Electric-type attacks thrown at Iron Bundle. Zacian-C naturally outspeeds Iron Bundle and OHKOes it with most of its attacks; as such, a reliable answer like Necrozma-DM is needed as a teammate. Necrozma-DM also handles Extreme Speed Arceus for Iron Bundle and pressures bulky teams with Knock Off. Koraidon checks like Arceus-Fairy and Ho-Oh are helpful teammates, since Iron Bundle cannot beat Koraidon if it is at full health or has Tera available. Tera Water is an option to boost the power of Hydro Pump, enabling Iron Bundle to 2HKO common defensive Pokemon such as Necrozma-DM and Arceus-Fairy as well as improving its matchup against Zacian-C. However, the defensive utility of Tera Ghost and the damage benchmarks achieved by Tera Ice are typically more valuable to the teams Iron Bundle finds itself on. Flip Turn can be used in the last moveslot to maintain momentum against the switches Iron Bundle often forces, but the utility of Taunt or Encore is one of the primary motives for using Iron Bundle and is almost never worth forgoing. A power boosting item like Choice Specs or Life Orb allows Iron Bundle to accomplish notable KOs without the need to Terastallize, such as OHKOs against Koraidon and Miraidon with Ice Beam and most Arceus-Ground with Hydro Pump and 2HKOs against Necrozma-DM, Arceus-Fairy, and Calyrex-I with Hydro Pump. Iron Bundle's atrocious longevity and complete dependence on prediction with these items makes them difficult to justify using, though.
Urshifu (SS competitive strategy): Choice Band Urshifu-S is a decent threat due to its potent STAB combination hitting almost everything in the tier for at least neutral damage. It's also very hard to scout, as Unseen Fist lets it hit Pokemon using Protect. Wicked Blow is incredibly threatening, as it allows Urshifu to bypass Defense boosts; it is also capable of breaking through Max Guard under Dynamax as G-Max One Blow, which can prove to be situationally useful. Close Combat hits Dark-resistant foes like Yveltal, Zacian-C on the switch, and Tyranitar. U-turn lets Urshifu-S keep up momentum, and Stone Edge prevents Ho-Oh from scouting Urshifu's move and pivoting to a more solid switch-in. Alternatively, Ice Punch is a solid coverage option that allows Urshifu to break through Zygarde-C. Jolly is the preferred nature, as it lets Urshifu-S outspeed certain offensive Pokemon like Kyogre, Zekrom, and neutral-natured Yveltal. However, if more power is desired, Urshifu-S can run an Adamant nature, but this leaves it outsped by a lot of key targets. Due to Urshifu-S's overbearing weakness to Fairy-types like Xerneas and Zacian-C, Pokemon such as Necrozma-DM, Ho-Oh, and Zacian-C that can deal with them both defensively and offensively make for good teammates. Urshifu-S can struggle to break through defensive Zygarde-C due to its gigantic bulk, so Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Xerneas, Lunala, and Yveltal can be useful in dealing with it. As Urshifu-S has trouble switching in, pivots such as U-turn Yveltal, Blissey, and Landorus-T that can safely bring it in are incredibly potent teammates. The former makes an excellent pair with Urshifu-S as a primary counter to Calyrex-S. Other physical attackers like Marshadow, Zacian-C, Groudon, Zygarde, and Zekrom appreciate having Urshifu-S around to break the opposing team's physically defensive Pokemon. Sucker Punch provides priority in emergency situations, but leaves Urshifu-S easily exploitable. In particular, Sucker Punch's main target in Calyrex-S commonly runs Substitute, so it is not recommended in general. Iron Head prevents Xerneas from switching in freely, but it requires prediction and is not overly necessary with U-turn.
Landorus (XY competitive strategy): Landorus functions as a strong wallbreaker in Ubers thanks to the combination of Life Orb and Sheer Force, which provides it with a great amount of power while negating Life Orb recoil. It also has many coverage moves, making it difficult to switch into; however, it cannot run all of its coverage moves at the same time. Landorus's typing gives it an immunity to Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Ground-type attacks, as well as a neutrality to Stealth Rock. It has a decent base 101 Speed, which allows it to outspeed the many Uber Pokemon that have base Speed stats between 90 and 100, such as Primal Groudon, Primal Kyogre, Rayquaza, and Xerneas. Unfortunately, Landorus is relatively frail, so it has difficulty switching in and doesn't offer much defensive utility besides being an offensive check to Arceus-Ground. Landorus also faces fierce competition with other stronger special attackers and wallbreakers in the Ubers metagame, making it nearly impossible to fit on a team. Earth Power is Landorus's primary STAB move, which, when boosted by Life Orb and Sheer Force, hits most foes very hard. Knock Off hits Latias and Latios while crippling other switch-ins by removing their items. Rock Slide OHKOes Ho-Oh and hits other Flying-types for super effective damage. Hidden Power Ice primarily hits Mega Salamence and Rayquaza for super effective damage. Sludge Wave can also be used to hit Fairy-types and Grass- and Flying-types that resist or are immune to Earth Power, such as Arceus-Grass and Mega Salamence. Focus Blast is another viable option, as it hits Normal-types, such as Extreme Killer Arceus and Blissey, and Steel-types that Earth Power does not hit as hard, such as Ferrothorn and Skarmory. Life Orb boosts the power of Landorus's attacks and works well with Sheer Force, which offers additional power and cancels Life Orb recoil for most of Landorus's attacks besides Knock Off and Hidden Power. 252 Special Attack EVs maximize Landorus's power so that it can wallbreak more effectively, and 252 Speed EVs take advantage of Landorus's decent Speed tier. The remaining 4 EVs are invested in Attack to give slightly more power to Knock Off and Rock Slide. A Rash nature is preferred, as it allows Landorus to 2HKO most Arceus formes and OHKO all Primal Groudon variants; a Naive nature can also be used, as it gives Landorus additional Speed to always outspeed maximum Speed Pokemon with a base Speed stat between 90 and 100. Landorus is frail and has difficulty taking hits consistently, so try to safely switch Landorus in via its immunities and double switching. Assess the importance of making trades, as some attacks may not OHKO a foe; however, sacrificing Landorus to weaken a foe may be worth it if said foe is threatening or if one of Landorus's teammates greatly benefits from the foe being weakened. Prediction is needed to hit switch-ins with the appropriate coverage move, as Landorus will be forced out by faster foes if they switch in safely using an immunity or resistance. It should be noted that Landorus can be worn down from Life Orb recoil when using Knock Off and Hidden Power; as such, if being healthy later on is important in order to avoid certain KOs, these moves should be used sparingly. Dark-types make for good teammates, as they deal with Giratina-O, Latias, and Latios; Tyranitar is especially useful because it can trap Latias and Latios with Pursuit. Stealth Rock support is also useful because it weakens Flying-types that can switch into Landorus's Earth Power. Ghost-types are also good teammates for Landorus, as they can switch into Extreme Speed, which can be used to revenge KO Landorus. Mega Gengar is an especially useful teammate, as it can remove common checks to Landorus, such as Lugia, Skarmory, Shaymin-S, and some support Arceus formes. Primal Kyogre checks, such as Latias, Latios, and Primal Groudon, make for good partners as well. Fast sweepers, such as Xerneas, Extreme Killer Arceus, and Mega Salamence, appreciate Landorus's ability to break down walls so that they can sweep. Landorus can be a decent Stealth Rock setter if none of its teammates can fill that role. Calm Mind allows Landorus to break through slower teams more easily, though it is still susceptible to being revenge killed by faster threats. Substitute eases prediction and makes Landorus more difficult to revenge kill, and Rock Polish can be used to make Landorus a fast setup sweeper; however, both Substitute and Rock Polish sets are easier to wall due to the loss of a coverage move. Grass Knot hits Primal Kyogre for super effective damage. Hidden Power Fire can hit Steel-types such as Mega Scizor and Ferrothorn for super effective damage, though Focus Blast tends to be more useful in general. U-turn can be used to gain momentum, wearing down Landorus's common checks in the process, as they will be forced out while taking damage from entry hazards and U-turn. Gravity is an interesting option that allows Landorus to hit Flying-types and Pokemon that have Levitate with Earth Power.
Landorus (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to its ability Sheer Force and Life Orb combined with its good Special Attack, Landorus is a potent wallbreaker in the Ubers metagame, being capable of breaking most of the defensive cores and threatening top-tier defensive foes such as Necrozma-DM and Eternatus. Moreover, its coverage can threaten almost every Pokemon in the metagame. Landorus's Speed sets it apart from other wallbreakers, the majority of which have a base Speed between 90 and 100. However, common threats like Marshadow and Calyrex-S outspeed and threaten it. While Landorus's Ground / Flying typing gives it two useful immunities that allow it to switch in on Pokemon like Groudon, its lack of bulk doesn't allow it to switch in often. Overall, Landorus has a unique role in the Ubers metagame, even though it competes with other special attackers like Eternatus and Calyrex-S. Earth Power is Landorus's main STAB move and allows it to hit the majority of the metagame neutrally. Rock Slide lets Landorus hit Flying-types such as Ho-Oh and Yveltal while giving almost perfect neutral coverage alongside Earth Power. Knock Off's main utility is to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from opposing Pokemon, making it extremely useful to apply pressure with entry hazards. Sludge Wave is an option to prevent Xerneas from using Geomancy in front of Landorus, leaving Xerneas vulnerable to priority or even OHKOing it if Stealth Rock is up. Thanks to the pressure Landorus applies on the opposite team, it can also easily set up Stealth Rock. As far as Superpower is concerned, it allows Landorus to hit special walls like Blissey and Ferrothorn hard. Explosion is a useful option on hyper offense teams with Sticky Web, preventing the foe from using Defog or Rapid Spin. Sheer Force negates Life Orb recoil when using Earth Power, Rock Slide, or Sludge Wave. A Naive nature along with maximum investment in Speed allows Landorus to outspeed common base 90 and 100 Speed Pokemon, while maximizing its damage from Rock Slide and Superpower. Landorus appreciates entry hazards being up on the opponent's field to help it wallbreak; therefore, Spikes support from Ferrothorn greatly helps it. Necrozma-DM is a good teammate too if Landorus doesn't have Stealth Rock. Also, Pokemon like Ho-Oh work well with Landorus, since they can switch in on Pokemon that threaten Landorus while also being able to use Defog. Pivots such as Yveltal and Blissey allow Landorus to switch safely onto the field, since it's relatively frail. Paralysis spreaders like Ho-Oh and Xerneas remedy one of the main weaknesses of Landorus: its Speed. Offensive partners such as Marshadow and Calyrex-S appreciate Landorus's ability to remove their checks or their checks' items; in return, they can eliminate faster threats, which Landorus can't handle. Slurpuff is another great partner, setting Sticky Web so that Landorus can outspeed foes such as Eternatus, Marshadow, and non-Choice Scarf Calyrex-S. In return, Landorus deters Ho-Oh and Yveltal from removing entry hazards with Rock Slide and Explosion, respectively. A Calm Mind set with three attacks can be used on Landorus, as it can outright sweep a team that doesn't have a Pokemon able to outspeed it. Otherwise, though, Landorus doesn't have the bulk to take a turn to set up. Moreover, due to Landorus's already huge wallbreaking potential, Calm Mind won't help it carry out its role. Rock Polish is also an option to consider, as it allows Landorus to sweep late-game if the opposing team is chipped or is hyper offensive.
Trevenant (XY competitive strategy): Trevenant's combination of a high Attack stat and access to STAB Wood Hammer makes it one of the strongest dedicated wallbreakers in PU. Additionally, its strong array of unique coverage options such as Earthquake and Rock Slide, which is largely unique to Trevenant, lets it take on common Grass checks such as Mawile and Altaria. This ability to 2HKO common Grass switch-ins gives Trevenant a unique niche of being able to possibly break through its, and all other Grass attackers, own common counters. Access to Natural Cure also gives Trevenant an additional niche over other Grass attackers and walls such as Leafeon and Gourgeist-XL. However, Trevenant's low Speed and competition from more competent Grass-types such as Leafeon, which is faster and has setup options, and Gourgeist-XL, which is bulkier overall, keep Trevenant from standing out on its own in both an offensive and defensive light. Trevenant's Wood Hammer is chosen as the primary STAB option, as it is the most powerful Grass-type attack in the tier. Shadow Claw provides a secondary attack that hits walls such as Gourgeist-XL; however, it should be noted that locking into a Ghost move in PU can be detrimental, as PU has a large number of strong Normal-types that would take advantage of this. Rock Slide hits Flying-type Pokemon such as Vullaby and Fire-type Pokemon such as Rapidash, 2HKOing all of them. The last slot is quite customizable, but the recommended move is Earthquake for 2HKOing defensive Mawile even after an Intimidate. Other options include Trick to cripple any walls that may switch in; however, by giving the Choice Band away, Trevenant forfeits its ability to 2HKO many common Grass switch-ins such as Vullaby. Horn Leech is also an option for healing, since Trevenant can get worn down quickly through switching in and Wood Hammer recoil. Due to the lack in power, however, it is not recommended that Horn Leech replaces Wood Hammer; instead, it should work as a secondary and weaker Grass option if used at all. The Speed EVs are set to always outspeed Adamant maximum Speed Mawile, which can force Trevenant out otherwise with a strong Knock Off. Trevenant can run 252 Speed to outspeed neutral-natured Cacturne; however, this is not recommended due to Cacturne's ability to OHKO it with Sucker Punch, which nullifies any Speed that Trevenant has. The leftover EVs are put into HP for some additional bulk, as Trevenant's natural bulk is fairly respectable. Choice Band is the item of choice to make Trevenant as strong as possible in conjunction with the Attack EVs and Adamant nature, which guarantees the 2HKO on many threats and switch-ins such as Vullaby and defensive Mawile. Natural Cure is used to heal off any burns so Trevenant is not crippled by them while also letting it act as a general status absorber for the rest of the team. Trevenant is heavily reliant on the player's ability to properly predict their opponent. If predicted correctly, Trevenant has the ability to 2HKO most of the common Grass switch-ins PU has to offer. If the player predicts incorrectly, then whatever move Trevenant locks itself into is usually an easy switch-in for a Pokemon that either resists or is immune to the move. For example, locking into Shadow Claw gives a free switch for Stoutland, and locking into Wood Hammer gives a free switch for Vullaby. It is exceedingly important to predict often and predict well in order for Trevenant to succeed. Bring Trevenant in in the earlier parts of the game to soften the opposing team with its wallbreaking ability, but always be prepared to switch it back out. Additionally, thanks to Trevenant's decent natural bulk, coming in on resisted moves like an Earth Power from Stunfisk is also acceptable. Trevenant can also switch in on a Scald if necessary, as Natural Cure will get rid of the possible burn. Using Trevenant as a status absorber is a decent option for taking a Toxic or Thunder Wave for a partner while also affording a relatively free switch for Trevenant by simply healing the affliction on the switch. Trevenant's primary niche is its ability to weaken common Grass switch-ins, so a great partner for Trevenant is another Grass sweeper such as Leafeon or Jumpluff that appreciates this. Monferno and Pawniard are also notable options if you do not want to stack Grass-types, as they also appreciate targets such as Vullaby out of the way to ease their own sweep. Partners that can give Trevenant a free switch through U-turn or Volt Switch also work well, and choices such as Rotom-F and Monferno can succeed in this role. Additionally, while Trevenant is strong on its own, it still requires Stealth Rock on the field to solidify the 2HKO on some notable threats such as Vullaby. Thus, choices such as Metang and Mawile are good partners for both providing Stealth Rock and patching up some type weaknesses Trevenant has. Defensive partners can consist of choices such as Mawile, which can switch in on Flying and Dark attacks, and Altaria, which can switch in on Fire attacks. Having defensive partners for Trevenant is advised because Trevenant has to switch in and out on a regular basis, making reliable teammates to absorb the attack meant for Trevenant a strong asset to the team. Offensive Trick Room sets are also a possibility thanks to Trevenant's low Speed and high Attack and damage output, but they can face competition from Gourgeist-XL, which has Explosion and priority in the form of Shadow Sneak. These options allow Gourgeist-XL to support the team more and work outside of Trick Room, though it is ultimately notably weaker than Trevenant. Gimmick sets that utilize Harvest are also particularly tempting and popular, but they are usually not consistent enough to be worth the team slot. Lum Berry can be used to absorb status for Trevenant's teammates and possibly let it heal for free with Rest, but Trevenant is not bulky enough to consistently pull this strategy off and is eclipsed by Gourgeist-XL in almost all defensive sets. Another notable Harvest set of Sitrus Berry with Substitute and Leech Seed is also possible, but this is not advised because many threats in PU, such as Quilladin and Substitute Bouffalant, are largely unaffected by it and in a worst case scenario can use it as a setup opportunity.
Trevenant (SM competitive strategy): Trevenant is outclassed in many ways by offensive Grass-types such as Victreebel and Torterra, Ghost-types like Golurk, and Tangela in any defensive sets due to Tangela's far better defenses and reliable recovery, especially Regenerator. Trevenant's competition as an attacker all have notable qualities over it such as a better Speed tier and Swords Dance, a superior secondary typing, or Stealth Rock, respectively. Even with Trevenant's access to Natural Cure and Trick, it is not enough to warrant its usage, especially when it's pressured by Pursuit more than its competition. Choice Band Trevenant can function as a breaker with passable coverage that can also spinblock. Natural Cure and Trick are still some features it has over its competition with status absorption and the ability to cripple a wall. However, Trevenant remains notably outdone by Victreebel and Torterra as Grass-type wallbreakers due to Trevenant's inferior typing and power, and also Golurk, which offers better utility in Stealth Rock and better coverage in Stone Edge and Ice Punch.
Trevenant (SS competitive strategy): Trevenant is a powerful wallbreaker that threatens teams without sturdy Ghost and Grass answers or sufficient offensive pressure. Thanks to Natural Cure, it can pivot into status better compared to other attackers and eases the need for a cleric. However, it faces competition from Gourgeist-S, which has significantly higher Speed. Trevenant compensates by hitting much harder, 2HKOing switch-ins like Altaria and Qwilfish, the latter after Stealth Rock damage. Sucker Punch nails faster foes like Rotom, Jynx, and Froslass. If Trevenant is paired with Thwackey, Grassy Glide can provide Trevenant with a safer priority move. Trick cripples lured walls like Tangela and Sap Sipper Miltank, which otherwise switch in safely. Natural Cure allows Trevenant to pivot into Pokemon reliant on status such as Stunfisk and defensive Poliwrath. Despite Trevenant’s strength, it struggles to break through physical walls, especially ones that invalidate its STAB moves like Tangela, Sap Sipper Miltank, and itemless Gourgeist-XL. Special wallbreakers like Jynx, Skuntank, and Thievul overwhelm them with super effective coverage or setup. Pivots such as Uxie and Alolan Persian can help Trevenant get onto the field against faster builds. Coalossal can cover its Fire-, Ice-, and Flying-type weaknesses and provide Rapid Spin, while Dark-types like Skuntank can cover its Dark- and Ghost-type weaknesses. In return, Trevenant can offensively deal with many Water- and Ground-types, including Poliwrath, Rhydon, and Stunfisk. Thwackey not only gives Trevenant Grassy Glide, a more reliable priority move, but also an offensive partner that works together to overwhelm bulky Grass-types. Some attacks can be used over Trick. Horn Leech and Drain Punch give Trevenant recovery, with the latter hitting Sap Sipper Miltank and the rare Bouffalant harder. Shadow Claw can hit Pokemon without an item, which synergizes better with Knock Off teammates. Earthquake provides a stronger hit against Poison-types like Qwilfish and Skuntank. Offensive Trick Room sets can bypass Trevenant's low Speed and surprise offensive teams, though Gourgeist-XL tends to perform better thanks to its Explosion, superior bulk, and lower Speed. Harvest sets with Substitute can capitalize on passive teams, though they struggle to find other opportunities due to Trevenant’s middling bulk.
Crustle (BW competitive strategy): deal significant damage to Slowking, Tangrowth, and Uxie while turn. Pertinent examples of these include Durant, Gallade, Manectric, significantly damage Pokemon such as Golurk, Qwilfish, and Steelix, users, such as Rotom, Rotom-C, and Durant, or priority users such as
Crustle (XY competitive strategy): Crustle has access to Shell Smash, making it a solid Pokemon in the PU metagame by transforming it into a threatening sweeper. Crustle also has access to Sturdy, Stealth Rock, and Spikes, making it a solid hazard-stacking leads in the tier. In addition, it has a strong offensive presence with its access to the EdgeQuake combination, which makes Crustle hard to check because the two moves hit almost all of the tier neutrally, especially when combined with X-Scissor. However, Crustle's typing gives it weaknesses to common types such as Water and Rock while only granting it resistances to Normal- and Poison-type moves. As a result, Crustle has trouble with many threats in the PU metagame, and its weakness to Stealth Rock limits the number of times that Crustle can switch in. Despite Crustle having decent defenses, its poor defensive typing along with its lack of a form of recovery hinder its defensive capabilities. Crustle is also very slow for a sweeper, being outsped by Choice Scarf users such as Simipour and Rotom-F and fast Pokemon like Electrode and Ninjask, even at +2. As a suicide lead, Crustle faces competition from other leads in the tier such as Smeargle, Golem, and Rampardos. However, Golem and Rampardos do not have access to Spikes, and Smeargle has little to no offensive presence nor can utilise Custap Berry, giving Crustle a notable niche over all of them in the PU metagame. Stealth Rock is a solid way of weakening foes upon switching in, and thanks to Sturdy, Crustle is able to set it reliably. Spikes is another form of entry hazard that can deal more damage to Steel-types and can be used in tandem with Stealth Rock. Stone Edge is a strong STAB move that allows Crustle to take on common hazard removers such as Vullaby and Armaldo. Knock Off is a powerful move that is able to weaken checks to Crustle and other wallbreakers by getting rid of items like Eviolite and Leftovers. Earthquake is able to hit Steel-types like Mawile and Probopass for super effective damage; otherwise, Crustle wouldn't be able to touch them. Finally, X-Scissor can be used to hit Grass-types like Tangela, Quilladin, and Leafeon for extra damage. Otherwise, those Pokemon would be able to easily KO or set up on Crustle. Maximum EVs in Speed ensure that the most entry hazards possible are set by outspeeding opposing Pokemon like Probopass, Relicanth, and Roselia. Maximum EVs in Attack let Crustle keep offensive pressure and deal damage to hazard removers like Vullaby and Swanna. A Jolly nature is used in order to outspeed maximum Speed Adamant Golem. The combination of Sturdy and Custap Berry allows Crustle to get up two entry hazards almost all of the time, if need be. If you do not need more entry hazards, Custap Berry can also allow Crustle to deal a lot of damage to the foe with Stone Edge or Knock Off before it faints. You can use Crustle as a lead, as Stealth Rock and Spikes are more effective when they are set early. Look at your opponent's team before you choose to either set entry hazards (and decide which ones to set) or get off damage on opposing Pokemon instead. For example, if they have three Flying-type Pokemon on their team, it is vital to get up Stealth Rock, but Spikes are unnecessary. If you are facing offense, you may not need to get up Spikes because they usually would not get any crucial KOs that would not be gotten from just Stealth Rock. If the opposing lead is a Golem, it might be better to break Golem's Sturdy rather than set a second hazard. Look out for priority users such as Floatzel and Monferno, as they outprioritize Custap Berry's activation. This Crustle set works best as a suicide lead on hyper offense, as entry hazards can weaken the walls that are typical of balance teams and allow your Pokemon to sweep. Sweepers and wallbreakers like Stoutland, Mawile, and Ninetales appreciate the hazards that Crustle sets. In addition, sweepers like Monferno that appreciate weakening of Flying-types enjoy Crustle's Stealth Rock support, making them great partners. Spinblockers such as Misdreavus and Dusknoir work well with Crustle, as they can sometimes prevent the hazards that Crustle sets from being removed. Pawniard and Purugly are also great partners for Crustle, as their ability, Defiant, punishes opposing Defog users. Shell Smash doubles Crustle's Attack and Speed, turning it into a very threatening late-game sweeper. Stone Edge, being Crustle's strongest STAB move, deals a lot of damage to anything that doesn't resist it. Earthquake is a solid coverage move that allows Crustle to hit Steel-types such as Pawniard and KO Pokemon such as Stunfisk and Golem after a Shell Smash boost. X-Scissor gains STAB and hits Pokemon such as Tangela that can shrug off Stone Edge and Earthquake after a Shell Smash boost. Maximum Attack investment along with an Adamant nature is used to make Crustle as powerful as possible, while maximum Speed investment allows Crustle to outspeed Pokemon such as Jumpluff after a Shell Smash boost along with uninvested slower Pokemon like Politoed, Seaking, and Vullaby before a boost. White Herb offsets the Defense and Special Defense drops Crustle suffers from Shell Smash, letting it possibly take a hit from a Choice Scarf user, and allowing it to more comfortably set up on slower Pokemon. Sturdy allows Crustle to take any one hit at full health, giving it an opportunity to set up Shell Smash. Crustle should be saved for mid- or late-game when its checks, including faster Pokemon like Choice Scarf Rotom-F and bulkier Pokemon like Gourgeist-XL, have been removed. At this point, it can set up Shell Smash and sweep an opposing team. However, it can also wallbreak early-game. Crustle can be used to check Pokemon such as Stoutland and Ursaring, even taking advantage of them to set up Shell Smash. However, it does not appreciate Superpower or Close Combat and is not a great switch-in for these Normal-types unless you plan on setting up Shell Smash and sweeping right after. Take advantage of more passive Pokemon, such as defensive Altaria and Quilladin without Roar, to set up Shell Smash. However, as long as Crustle maintains Sturdy, it can set up on any Pokemon that it can outspeed and OHKO after a boost. Examples of Pokemon that fit into this category are Choice Band Dodrio, Simisear, and Stoutland. Be wary of opposing Choice Scarf users, as even after a Shell Smash boost, Crustle is outsped by Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Rotom-F and Choice Scarf Simipour. Fast Pokemon like Ninjask and Electrode can also outspeed it after a boost. Priority moves like Floatzel's Aqua Jet and Monferno's Mach Punch can easily pick off Crustle as well. Crustle appreciates wallbreakers such as Stoutland and Cacturne that can break down Pokemon such as Gourgeist-XL and Stunfisk, making it easier for Crustle to sweep. Pokemon such as Roselia and Stunfisk that can use entry hazards make for good partners for Crustle, as hazards are able to weaken checks to Crustle as they switch in. Bulky Grass-types such as Quilladin and Gourgeist-XL are able to take on Water-types such as Floatzel and Ground-types such as Golem, which Crustle struggles with. Memento from Pokemon such as Jumpluff can be helpful to grant easier setup opportunities for Crustle. In order to set up reliably, it is important for Crustle to maintain its Sturdy. As a result, hazard removers like Prinplup, Swanna, and Cryogonal help Crustle by letting it not have to switch into Stealth Rock or Spikes and keep its Sturdy. Rock Blast can be used over Stone Edge in order to gain accuracy, but in general, the loss of power is not appreciated. Toxic can be used to cripple Pokemon that commonly switch into Crustle, but extra coverage is usually better. A Jolly nature can be run on Shell Smash sets in order to outspeed Electrode after a boost, but generally Crustle appreciates the power that an Adamant nature provides. Endure can be used on the Crustap set in order to get up extra entry hazards against Pokemon that barely 2HKO it such as Rapidash, which would usually result in Crustle only getting up one hazard. However, this costs Crustle a moveslot that it can use for coverage, which is generally better. Defensive Crustle sets can be used, but they are almost always outclassed by other walls in the tier such as specially defensive Golem and physically defensive Relicanth.
Crustle (SM competitive strategy): Crustle's access to the combination of Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Shell Smash along with its good Attack and two useful abilities allows it to function as both a Shell Smash sweeper and a suicide lead. Shell Smash turns Crustle into a offensive threat, as it can boost its already decent attack to very high levels while also allowing it to outspeed most of the unboosted metagame. In addition, Crustle's naturally high Defense allows it to set up on tier staples such as Komala, Bouffalant, and Muk. STAB Stone Edge and X-Scissor along with options such as Earthquake and Knock Off allow Crustle to hit the entire tier for at least neutral damage. Crustle's access to both Spikes and Stealth Rock along with its two best abilities in Sturdy and Weak Armor allow lead sets to often get up multiple layers of entry hazards. Unfortunately, Crustle's impressive physical bulk is somewhat offset by a vulnerability to all entry hazards, as well as by its poor defensive typing and Special Defense. Thus, Crustle is not as bulky in practice as it may seem, and it struggles to set up if offensive threats such as Golem, Swanna, and Pawniard are present. Crustle also struggles with a mediocre Speed stat, as it is quite slow unboosted and will still be outrun by the tier's most common Choice Scarf users, such as Electivire, Rapidash, Swanna, and Mr. Mime even at +2, although it can generally tank a hit if they lack super effective coverage. The lead set also fails to threaten several of the tier's most common entry hazard removers, and Pokemon such as Silvally-Water and Sandslash can come in without much trouble and remove its entry hazards. The combination of Stone Edge and Earthquake allows Crustle to hit almost every Pokemon in the tier for at least neutral damage, with one very notable exception in Bronzor, which the last move allows it to hit hard. Knock Off gives Crustle a way to 2HKO all variants of Bronzor, as well as giving Crustle a way to rid the many Eviolite users in the tier of their needed item, with targets including Mareanie, Metang, and Dusclops. X-Scissor is another option that allows Crustle to still hit Bronzor reasonably hard while also allowing it to hit bulkier Grass-types such as Quilladin and Leafeon for super effective damage. However, this option loses out on the ability to OHKO specially defensive variants of Bronzor. White Herb allows Crustle to keep its high Defense stat intact after using Shell Smash, which notably allows it to comfortably take a hit from Choice Scarf users such as Electivire and Rapidash as well as common priority users such as Purugly before OHKOing them in return. This also can potentially give Crustle an opportunity to set up Shell Smash again, jacking up both its power and speed to breathtaking levels. Another option is Rockium Z, which gives Crustle a one-time nuke that circumvents Stone Edge's meager accuracy and OHKOes Gourgeist-XL after Stealth Rock damage, a Pokemon that otherwise gives Crustle issues. However, such a set must be played with more caution, as Crustle immediately becomes much more vulnerable to Choice Scarf and priority users. Sturdy is the preferred ability here, as it guarantees that Crustle will be able to set up Shell Smash as long as entry hazards are kept off the field. Using Weak Armor is an option that can potentially make Crustle extremely fast at the cost of some bulk, but the prevalence of priority users such as Pawniard as well as the fact that the White Herb could be used up before Crustle actually uses Shell Smash make this a risky option at best. Shell Smash Crustle is best saved for the mid-or late-game, when it will have an easier time sweeping through teams. It is a good idea to remove at least some of its offensive and defensive checks before sending Crustle out. Defensive checks to watch out for include Gourgeist-XL and Pyukumuku, while offensive ones include potential Choice Scarf users like Electivire and Mr. Mime as well as priority users such as Swanna. Crustle can also operate as an excellent wallbreaker if it is unable to sweep, with defensive Pokemon including Mawile and Bronzor being prime targets. Avoid switching Crustle in directly, as it cannot afford to take much damage if it is aiming to be out of range of the common Choice Scarf threats and priority users. Pivoting Crustle in through a slow U-turn or Volt Switch or after one of your Pokemon has fainted is generally a better option. Removing entry hazards before Crustle comes in is an excellent idea, as it is weak to Stealth Rock and will take damage from Spikes and Toxic Spikes as well. Crustle cannot afford to take much damage before it gets in range of some of the tier's Choice Scarf users and priority users. Crustle should ideally attempt to set up on physical attackers that don't immediately threaten it or foes that it can force out thanks to its decent base Attack that threatens a good amount of the tier. Prime points of entry include Kecleon, Purugly, and Choice Band Komala. Attempting to set up on some of the more passive Pokemon in the tier is an option as well, but Crustle must be extremely careful of status, which most of the passive Pokemon in the tier can spread. As such, setting up against Pokemon such as Gourgeist-XL, Mareanie, and Dusclops should be avoided, as they threaten to burn Crustle. Bulky Water-types are a big problem for Crustle, as most of them will OHKO it if they aren't eliminated or brought into KO range the first turn you see them. A specific mention goes to Pyukumuku, which isn't bothered by what Crustle does and will wall it out. Such Pokemon should absolutely be removed before Crustle attempts to sweep. Entry hazard removal is much appreciated, as Crustle is weak to Stealth Rock and will take hefty damage if it switches in with it on the field. This is especially imperative with the Rockium Z set, as Crustle will be in range of an OHKO from Choice Scarf users such as Pinsir and Rapidash after Stealth Rock damage and the Defense drop. All entry hazards will also break Sturdy. Thus, Defog or Rapid Spin support from teammates such as Swanna, Altaria, Komala, and Sandslash is very helpful. Crustle greatly appreciates entry hazards from teammates such as Quilladin, Mawile, and Bronzor on the opposing side of the field, as they let it more easily punch through the opponent's team. Crustle is vulnerable to special attackers, so having a way of dealing with them is imperative. Choice Scarf Electivire takes out threats such as Swanna, Kadabra, and Mr. Mime, while Assault Vest Komala can tank many hits from special attackers thanks to its naturally decent bulk before threatening them with its powerful attacks. Ways of crippling or removing Choice Scarf and priority users are very helpful for Crustle, with revenge killing them with your own Choice Scarf users such as Electivire and Pinsir being a good option. Another option is checking them defensively; Sandslash, for example, can tank anything Electivire or Rapidash throws at it before OHKOing them with Earthquake. In addition to the aforementioned bulky Water-types, Crustle will struggle to break certain physical walls, such as Colbur Berry Gourgeist-XL and physically defensive Golem. As such, having a wallbreaker as a teammate is appreciated. Exeggutor, Servine, and Beheeyem are potential options here. Crustle's access to Spikes and Knock Off is largely the only reason to use it over lead Golem. As such, they should absolutely be used on every lead Crustle. Spikes and Stealth Rock combine for a choking entry hazard stack that can wear down opposing teams very quickly, while Knock Off allows Crustle to potentially annoy other leads that appreciate having their item, such as the aforementioned Golem, as well as giving it a good way to fight against Pokemon that rely on Eviolite and Leftovers, such as Bronzor, Mareanie, and Lickilicky. The last move slot is largely filler. Stone Edge is a nice, powerful STAB move that can dissuade some of the tier's most notable Defoggers such as Rotom-S and Swanna from switching into Crustle, while Rock Blast allows Crustle to greatly threaten Focus Sash-reliant Pokemon like Masquerain, Kadabra, and Leavanny while also neutering enemy lead Crustle. Maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature allows Crustle to at worst Speed tie with the ever-present lead Golem, as well as with opposing lead Crustle, while maximum Attack investment allows Crustle to hit as hard as possible. Using Custap Berry with Sturdy allows Crustle to ensure it can almost always get at least Stealth Rock up and one layer of Spikes up before fainting. An alternative to the above set is running Focus Sash along with the ability Weak Armor. This ensures that Crustle will be able to tank a hit at least once while also gaining a large Speed boost if said hit is physical. This also has the added benefit of lowering Crustle's Defense, which is ironically useful in this case, as Crustle's goal is to get out of the way for the next teammate. Ideally this allows Crustle to at least get up Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes, but it is inconsistent compared to the other set, as it relies on Crustle facing a physical attacker. Crustle should almost always be the lead, unless the opponent has a very obvious Taunt user such as Misdreavus that threatens Crustle's ability to get up entry hazards. It can still be worth it to send Crustle in on certain physically based Taunt users, as the combination of Knock Off and either Stone Edge or Rock Blast is nothing to sneeze at offensively. Crustle should be wary of leading against hazard removers such as Silvally-Fighting, Sandslash, Avalugg, and Silvally-Water, which wall it and are able to cleanly keep its hazards off the field. It should also be somewhat careful of leading off against Golem and opposing Crustle, which oftentimes carry Rock Blast. Crustle can potentially be saved for later if these threats are present so that it can put its hazards up once they have been effectively dealt with. Stealth Rock should generally be used first, as it is the more overall useful entry hazard. The next step should be to set up as many layers of Spikes as possible in order to threaten chip damage on Stealth Rock-resistant Pokemon such as Sandslash, Mawile, and Machoke. Using Knock Off on opposing leads is oftentimes a good option. Lead Golem, for example, greatly relies on its Weakness Policy or its Custap Berry to effectively do its job. This also has the added benefit of breaking Sturdy. This Crustle should only be switched out against hazard removers that is has no way of dealing with, such as Silvally-Water and Sandslash. Outside of those situations it is usually better to let Crustle get KOed and let a more overall useful Pokemon take the reins. Custap Berry allows Crustle to set a hazard while sacrificing itself, which is great for keeping momentum and letting offensive teammates such as Purugly or Pawniard take center stage. Lead Crustle works best on hyper offense teams that appreciate multiple layers of entry hazards. Finding a way to beat Defoggers and spinners that threaten to remove all of Crustle's hard work is generally a very good idea. Defiant users such as Pawniard and Purugly can force Defoggers into a very uncomfortable situation, with Contrary Servine being another option. Spinblocking using Taunt Misdreavus is an option to give insurance against spinners, although finding another way to deal with common spinners is an option as well, such as Fighting-type coverage for taking on Komala and Water- or Grass-type coverage for Sandslash. Many of the tier's offensive threats appreciate the offensive pressure that hazards give, as it makes it harder to switch into them. Combusken, Pinsir, Z-Rain Dance Swanna, and mixed Electivire are all offensive powerhouses that appreciate hazard stacking, as it aids them in their efforts to break down and/or sweep the opposing team. Rock Tomb can be used on the lead set in order to slow down the opposing lead and potentially make it very easy for the next Pokemon in line to do its job. However, this is generally inferior to the options provided. Crustle can use Shell Smash and Stealth Rock on the same set if role compression is needed. This particular set has the added benefit of working as both a lead and a sweeper, and using Stealth Rock to bluff an entry hazard set before boosting with Shell Smash can put the opponent into an extremely uncomfortable situation. This set also has the added benefit of greatly threatening some of the tier's most common Defoggers, such as Swanna and Altaria. However, this set lacks Spikes, making it a somewhat inferior lead to Golem, and as a sweeper it will lack the coverage needed to sweep many teams. Substitute can also be used on Shell Smash Crustle to set up on certain threats it would otherwise be hesitant to take on, such as Gourgeist and Bronzor, as well as giving it insurance against Sucker Punch users such as Pawniard. However, the aforementioned coverage issues hold this option back a bit. An EV spread of 248 HP / 216 Def / 44 Spe with Leftovers or Iapapa Berry turns Crustle into a decently bulky defensive wall capable of setting hazards for the team. While this uses the same set as the suicide lead, the gameplan changes to wanting to keep Crustle alive, as it can come in multiple times per game to set hazards against teams; however, often you only need to set hazards once for teams to function. Using Rock Wrecker with Rockium Z is an option to give Crustle a monstrously powerful Continental Crush and allow it to land a guaranteed OHKO onto Gourgeist-XL without Stealth Rock, something the other sets are incapable of doing. However, Rock Wrecker’s downsides outside of the Z-Move make Stone Edge a generally better option.
Crustle (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to the combination of Sturdy and Heavy-Duty Boots, Crustle is almost always able to set up a Shell Smash. This allows Crustle to be a niche late-game cleaner, outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame apart from Accelgor. However, Crustle is susceptible to common Choice Scarf users in Rotom and Sawk. Stone Edge is Crustle's strongest move, hitting physical walls like Altaria and Miltank the hardest. X-Scissor provides coverage for other walls like Uxie, Tangela, and Alolan Persian, in addition to being the strongest accurate move. Earthquake covers Klinklang, Stunfisk, and Rhydon. Crustle fits well on offense teams and is best saved for a late-game sweep once its checks are weakened or removed. Defensive checks include Poliwrath, Sableye, and Gurdurr, but teammates such as Silvally-Dark and Shiftry can help weaken and pressure them. Offensive checks, on the other hand, include common revenge killers in Choice Scarf Sawk, Choice Scarf Rotom, and Thwackey. Sturdy needs to be broken first, however, for them to revenge kill Crustle. Other partners that can aid Crustle's cleaning chances are the aforementioned Sawk and Thwackey, as they weaken physical walls such as Tangela and Qwilfish. Crustle also works well on setup spam teams, as they can overwhelm defensive checks; partners on them include Klinklang, Qwilfish, and Silvally formes. Healing Wish support from Pokemon such as Hattrem and Galarian Rapidash works well on offense teams, giving Crustle a second chance of sweeping. Crustle can perform as a suicide lead on hyper offense teams thanks to having both Stealth Rock and Spikes. This set also runs Knock Off and Rock Blast, which beats suicide leads that depend on Focus Sash such as Froslass and Accelgor.
Dudunsparce (SV competitive strategy): Calm Mind turns Dudunsparce into a extremely threatening special sweeper that utilizes the raw power of Boomburst to clean up weakened teams while being difficult to KO due to Roost, good natural bulk, and a generally solid defensive typing. Dudunsparce can also punish the use of Knock Off with Rattled, meaning that removing its item can sometimes help it sweep. This means that Dudunsparce is exceptional at taking advantage of passive Pokemon such as Swampert, Tsareena, and Gligar, as they cannot use Knock Off to remove its item without giving it a Speed boost. Dudunsparce does struggle with Fighting-types such as Flamigo and Toxicroak, which can easily threaten it out if Terastallizing is not an option for it. Steel-types such as Copperajah and Bronzong can easily take its STAB Boomburst and threaten it out with Whirlwind or Body Press, respectfully. Additionally, Dudunsparce has a poor Speed stat, which means even slow wallbreakers such as Rhyperior and Sylveon can land huge attacks on Dudunsparce, potentially cutting a sweep short. Calm Mind Dudunsparce can utilize the immense power of Boomburst to become an incredibly difficult setup sweeper to remove. Shadow Ball can hit Pokemon such as Chandelure, Basculegion-M, and Bronzong that are either immune to or resist Boomburst. Roost allows Dudunsparce to keep sustaining itself over the course of a game and accruing boosts whenever it can. Leftovers can help keep Dudunsparce healthy so that it doesn't expend Roost PP too early, while Heavy-Duty Boots can allow Dudunsparce to get on the field easier while hazards are down. Rattled can allow Dudunsparce to punish the various U-turn and Knock Off users in the tier to gain a Speed boost. 100 Speed EVs enable Dudunsparce to outspeed Incineroar and Vaporeon and hit them with Boomburst before they use Parting Shot and Haze, respectively. They also let Dudunsparce outspeed neutral-nature Basculegion-M after a Rattled boost. Tera Poison gives Dudunsparce a Fighting resistance, and it also comes with the benefit of not letting Dudunsparce get poisoned by Pokemon such as Munkidori and Amoonguss. Tera Ghost gives Dudunsparce an immunity to Fighting-type attacks from Pokemon such as Paldean Tauros-W while also boosting the power of Shadow Ball. Additionally, it's a better Tera type against Bronzong because, unlike Tera Poison, it makes Dudunsparce not weak to Psychic Noise and immune to Body Press. Calm Mind Dudunsparce fits primarily on bulky offense and balance teams, which love its ability to set up easily on many common defensive Pokemon like Vaporeon, Gligar, and Tsareena. Therefore, Pokemon such as Paldean Tauros-W, Flygon, and Swampert enjoy Dudunsparce's presence and can bring these foes in so that Dudunsparce can use them as setup fodder. Fighting-type answers such as Galarian Slowbro and Amoonguss are heavily appreciated by Dudunsparce, while in return, Dudunsparce can help against Pokemon they may struggle with such as Basculegion-M and Kilowattrel. Entry hazard removers such as Tsareena and Altaria are much appreciated by Dudunsparce, as they allow it to reliably run Leftovers to further aid its sweeping potential. Pokemon that are walled by Bronzong such as Munkidori and Flygon heavily appreciate Dudunsparce, as it can reliably chip or set up on Bronzong, allowing them a much easier time for wallbreaking. In return, they can help against Pokemon such as Flamigo and Diancie, respectfully, that might otherwise trouble Dudunsparce. Due to its Ghost immunity, Dudunsparce is often tasked with switching into Shadow Ball from Chandelure. However, it struggles with switching into Fire Blast, so Dudunsparce appreciates partners such as Basculegion-M, Diancie, and Altaria that can take Chandelure's Fire-type attacks. Dudunsparce has a wide array of coverage options, including Ice Beam and Earth Power, to hit Pokemon such as Altaria and Toxtricity that might otherwise give it trouble. Dudunsparce can utlize a defensive Stealth Rock set, which can act as a check to Pokemon such as Chandelure while crippling entry hazard removal options such as Tsareena with either Toxic or Glare. Coil sets can be used in order to turn Dudunsparce into a dangerous physical sweeper, allowing it to take on Pokemon such as Copperajah more easily. Covert Cloak can be used on sweeping sets to ignore secondary effects such as Vaporeon's Scald and Munkidori's Toxic Chain.
Swoobat (BW competitive strategy): The stars aligned in an interesting way for Swoobat, giving it one of the most unique niches in PU. Swoobat utilizes its Unaware ability to shut down setup threats like Beheeyem and Monferno and 2HKOes most foes by ignoring any defensive stat boosts. Combined with excellent base 114 Speed and great STAB coverage, Swoobat becomes a menace to offense and balance teams alike and, as a result, is an incredible asset to offense teams. However, even with all of this, it can still come up short. Swoobat outspeeds almost all of the tier but fails to outspeed Zebstrika and Sneasel, two threats that shut it down with their STAB attacks. On top of that, Swoobat's low natural Special Attack means that it can struggle greatly against bulkier teams. Psychic does solid neutral damage to a large portion of the tier, making it a strong spammable option. Signal Beam is also crucial, bypassing the defensive boosts of Calm Mind Beheeyem and Duosion while also hitting Dark-types such as Shiftry. U-turn allows Swoobat to slot effectively into offensive VoltTurn teams. The last slot is versatile and depends on what threats Swoobat needs to shut down for your specific team. Air Slash stops Scraggy from safely setting up, whereas Heat Wave stops Shift Gear Klang. Trick is also an option for shutting down any wall that might try and stop Swoobat, such as Audino or Articuno. Swoobat is an effective anti-setup option for offensive teams, beating setup sweepers such as Beheeyem thanks to Unaware. Swoobat also checks Monferno especially well, as it is one of the few checks that does not fear a boosted Mach Punch. However, despite having Choice Specs, Swoobat is a subpar dedicated wallbreaker. Pairing Swoobat with other wallbreakers such as Choice Band Monferno and Swords Dance Torterra is an excellent decision, as both of those choices threaten common Swoobat counters like Audino, while Swoobat can use U-turn to safely bring them in. Another factor to consider is that Swoobat's Speed is just barely not enough; as such, having priority, a bulky teammate, or a Choice Scarf user to outspeed possible threats like Zebstrika is necessary. Mach Punch Monferno and Stunfisk are potential options. Swoobat also must choose between beating Scraggy or Klang, so having a partner like Jumpluff or Stunfisk that can threaten what Swoobat can't will also be beneficial. Remember that Swoobat's primary job is to beat setup threats and threaten frail and slower offensive Pokemon, not to wallbreak.
Swoobat (XY competitive strategy): Swoobat sets itself apart as a special wallbreaker and revenge killer with its incredible Speed stat, outpacing other fast Pokemon like Electabuzz, Jumpluff, and Simipour. Swoobat's offensive STAB moves are only resisted by the few Steel-types in the tier, making it very hard to switch into. U-turn gives Swoobat the ability to pivot out of these Steel-types like Lairon and Klang so its teammates can chip them down. Shadow Ball hits Bronzor and Duosion for big damage. Trick is an option to cripple the Steel-types trying to switch into it as well as Dusclops, which would otherwise wall it. Hidden Power Ground gives Swoobat an option to 3HKO Klang and OHKO Lairon, but having no way around Bronzor and Duosion is less than ideal. Special sweepers like Simipour, Servine, and Vanilluxe appreciate Swoobat's ability to break through or cripple special walls like Duosion and Klang. Pokemon like Scraggy, Pignite, and Magmar make great partners, since they can be brought into favorable matchups versus the Steel-types that like to switch into Swoobat. Swoobat can check Grass-types like Servine, Simisage, and Quilladin, so the likes of Huntail and Gigalith appreciate it as a teammate. Entry hazard removers like Dustox and Vibrava are beneficial, since they provide Swoobat more longevity and give reliable entry against the opposing team with their slow pivot. Due to Swoobat's mediocre defensive stats, it is susceptible to getting revenge killed by Persian and Choice Scarf users like Krokorok; it really needs teammates that can take on these threats like Carbink and Meganium, respectively. VoltTurn teams get the most out of Swoobat because it has such a hard time hitting the field with its defensive profile, so pivots like Electabuzz, Furfrou, and Frogadier are helpful partners. Swoobat works as a great Calm Mind sweeper with its fantastic Speed, solid movepool, and its ability Simple. Stored Power is Swoobat's best Psychic-type STAB move, since it can accrue boosts quickly with Kee Berry + Calm Mind, surpassing Psychic's power after a single Calm Mind. However, Psychic can be used for more immediate damage and to revenge kill weakened or frailer foes like Simisage and Simipour. Signal Beam helps it hit the likes of Krokorok, Bronzor, and Duosion. Roost gives Swoobat a reliable recovery option to ease setting up, whereas Substitute blocks status from Pokemon like Servine, Klang, and Carbink and protects Swoobat from Sucker Punch from the likes of Furfrou and Pignite. Taunt takes on a similar status-blocking role like Substitute, but it has the added benefit of shutting down other utility moves like Calm Mind from Duosion, RestTalk from Klang, and Haze from Dusclops. Kee Berry boosts Stored Power more quickly and works around strong physical attackers like Persian and Pignite, whereas Leftovers helps Swoobat gain some passive recovery while it boosts up against slower attackers or is behind a Substitute. Swoobat works best on hyper offensive teams that are looking for a sweeper. Meowstic is a great support Pokemon alongside Swoobat, with its dual screens giving Swoobat a much easier time at boosting in front of strong foes. Special wallbreakers like Magmar and Simipour help break down walls like Klang, Scraggy, and Dusclops, giving Swoobat an easier job at sweeping. Physical wallbreakers like Pignite, Sawsbuck, and Krokorok can make Swoobat's sweep easier, since they can help chip down threats like Gigalith, Politoed, and Bronzor. Entry hazard removers like Vibrava and Dustox as well as Taunt users like Pignite and Krokorok are vital, since they help Swoobat avoid taking too much chip damage. Hazard setters like Marshtomp, Whirlipede, and Gigalith help ease Swoobat's sweep, letting it hit KO ranges like OHKOing Offensive Stealth Rock Krokorok with +2 Signal Beam after Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes. Heat Wave can be run in the last slot on Swoobat's Choice Specs set to hit all three Steel-types, but this leaves it reliant on its teammates to get through Duosion. Heat Wave can also work on its Calm Mind set instead of one of its support moves in order to hit the Steel-types, allowing it to apply more immediate pressure but limiting its longevity. Swoobat can run dual screens with its great Speed and support movepool of Taunt and U-turn, though it faces strong competition from Meowstic because it does not have Prankster.
Swoobat (SM competitive strategy): Swoobat is a unique and potentially devastating sweeper that uses its amazing ability Simple as well as its access to Calm Mind and Stored Power to become a dangerous threat. A great Speed tier allows it to get the jump on much of the unboosted metagame, and in conjunction with Salac Berry and Simple, it enables it to outrun every switch-in in the tier. Swoobat's defensive typing and bulk are nothing to write home about, but its 4x resistance to Fighting and a Ground immunity can give it some setup opportunities against certain threats such as Silvally-Fighting and defensive Poliwrath as well as Torterra and Electivire Choice-locked into Earthquake. Unfortunately, Swoobat's Special Attack is poor until it picks up a Calm Mind, which can be a tall task thanks to its bad defenses and defensive typing. Said defensive typing leaves it open to common Dark-, Ice-, and Electric-type attacks from Silvally-Dark, Glaceon, and Electivire. Swoobat's poor bulk and reliance on getting to low health to activate Salac Berry also mean that priority attacks from Pokemon such as Kecleon and Swanna are a huge problem for it. Swoobat is also very predictable, so a smart player can see what is coming and react accordingly by keeping one answer for it alive. Swoobat's hit-or-miss nature means that it only gets one shot to sweep, so all answers for it must be dealt with before it even attempts to set up. As a result, Swoobat needs significant support from its team if it is to sweep. Substitute allows Swoobat to set up on Pokemon Choice-locked into moves that can't break its Substitute or passive Pokemon attempting to afflict it with status conditions. The Choice-locked Pokemon can include Golem, Electivire, and Torterra locked into Earthquake, while passive Pokemon that are vulnerable to Swoobat include Pyukumuku, Bronzor, and Dusclops. Stored Power becomes extremely powerful if Swoobat accrues all the boosts it is aiming to; it reaches 140 Base Power after one Calm Mind and the Salac Berry boost. Heat Wave provides the best coverage alongside Stored Power, as it hits most of the tier's Psychic-resistant Pokemon neutrally and notably hits Bronzor, Pawniard, and Metang super effectively. Salac Berry gives Swoobat +2 to its Speed thanks to Simple, making it extremely fast and juicing up Stored Power even more. 4 HP EVs allow Swoobat to get into range of its Salac Berry after three uses of Substitute from full health. Swoobat is a very all-or-nothing sweeper; it usually only gets one chance to sweep, and it will achieve very little if the field is not prepared for it. Therefore, heavily weakening or removing checks and counters like Silvally-Dark and Pawniard is highly recommended before sending out Swoobat. Attempt to use Swoobat as a mid-game wallbreaker if a sweep looks unlikely. Using it mid-game can also bait out checks like Kecleon and Silvally-Dark that can be capitalized on by its teammates if you switch intelligently. Deciding when to use Calm Mind or Substitute is key to using Swoobat properly. Calm Mind can be used in the face of some of the tier's weaker special attackers and against slower special attackers that don't run coverage for Swoobat. These can include Servine, Exeggutor, and special Combusken, but you should keep in mind that directly switching into these threats is out of the question. Substitute, on the other hand, can be used on passive Pokemon such as Altaria, Pyukumuku, and Mareanie. Swoobat will often find itself behind a Substitute and unboosted while a faster Pokemon like Choice Scarf Electivire or Choice Scarf Rotom-S is in front of it. If this is the case, continuously use Substitute on the anticipated attacks to get Swoobat into Salac Berry range while behind a Substitute. While Swoobat is pretty weak without a boost, it can use its Speed stat to revenge kill certain weakened threats such as Leafeon, Mawile, and Simisage in an emergency. Swoobat fits best on hyper offense teams that can wear down the opposition for Swoobat and get it in. Dual screens support is very useful for Swoobat, as the damage reduction gives it many more opportunities to set up and actually allows it to make use of its resistances to an extent. Electrode is a standout option, as it can also get Swoobat in safely via Volt Switch. Other hyper offense staples make for good teammates for Swoobat. Dugtrio, Golem, and Crustle are all good leads; Dugtrio and Golem can potentially give Swoobat a free switch via Memento and Explosion, although this usually won't happen, as Swoobat is usually not seen early-game and these Pokemon are almost always dispatched within the first few turns. Crustle can also set Spikes, chipping down Swoobat's checks even more. Hyper offense sweepers include Rock Polish Torterra, Combusken, and Swords Dance Bibarel. These can help Swoobat out by breaking down checks like Bronzor, Silvally-Dark, and Kecleon, therefore allowing Swoobat to clean up easily. Swoobat can also potentially break down the opposing team early-game by getting rid of Silvally-Fighting, Gourgeist-XL, and Mareanie for them. Directly switching Swoobat in is not recommended, as it needs to be as healthy as possible to start a sweep and even hard resisted hits will do a ton of damage to it. Pivoting it in via U-turn or Volt Switch from the likes of Electrode and Silvally is a good idea. Bringing it in after Dugtrio's Memento or after one of your Pokemon has fainted is another way to do this. Psychic is an option that gives Swoobat a more immediate offensive presence that doesn't require boosting to actually become a decent move, but the drop in power is extremely noticeable once Swoobat sets up. Air Slash can be used as a STAB move that hits some neutral targets like Silvally-Dark and Beheeyem harder, but the coverage is overall very redundant, and being walled by Bronzor is not preferable. Roost can give Swoobat multiple tries to set up and give it some form of longevity. Kee Berry is another option on such a set to turn Swoobat into a more bulk-focused setup sweeper. Unfortunately, Swoobat's coverage isn't fantastic as it is, and constricting it even more is generally not a wise choice.
Swoobat (SS competitive strategy): Swoobat is a devastating sweeper in Terrain thanks to its great Speed tier and fantastic ability in Simple. Electric Seed boosts Swoobat's Defense significantly on switch-in, giving it much more physical bulk to ease setup, lessening its weakness to Knock Off, and providing it with an immunity to Poltergeist. Calm Mind boosts Swoobat's Special Attack and Special Defense, turning Stored Power into a destructive 140 Base Power move after a single use and Electric Seed's activation. Air Slash hits foes that resist or are immune to Psychic such as Uxie, Skuntank, and Silvally-Dark, while Heat Wave targets Klinklang, which resists both of Swoobat's STAB moves. Roost keeps Swoobat healthy, making it harder to revenge kill and giving it opportunities to set up multiple Calm Minds. The EV spread maximizes Swoobat's bulk and Speed, allowing it to always live Thunderbolt from Choice Scarf Rotom at +2 Special Defense after Stealth Rock damage. Taunt can be used over Roost to prevent Swoobat from getting hit with status, Haze, or forced out by Roar. Articuno and Rhydon are the most common users of these moves. Substitute can also be used to dodge status and makes Swoobat harder to revenge kill.
Jellicent (BW competitive strategy): Thanks to its stat distribution, typing, and Water Absorb, Jellicent stands out as one of the best answers to rain offense in BW OU. It is one of the only good spinblockers in the tier, alongside the more fringe Gengar, shutting down Rapid Spin attempts from Tentacruel, Mold Breaker Excadrill, and non-Life Orb Starmie. With Taunt, Will-O-Wisp, and base 60 Speed, Jellicent can shut down Ferrothorn, Politoed, Gastrodon, Seismitoad, Chansey, Forretress, and Skarmory while keeping bulky setup sweepers like Calm Mind Reuniclus and Swords Dance Scizor at bay. Jellicent is also able to check crucial offensive Pokemon such as Keldeo, Heatran, and Volcarona. However, Jellicent has no reliable way of curing status ailments, which can be problematic because most Pokemon it is meant to check, namely Tentacruel, Gastrodon, and to a lesser extent Heatran and Keldeo, run Toxic for it. Many of the aforementioned Pokemon, especially Starmie and Volcarona, often run Thunderbolt or Giga Drain as well. Finally, Jellicent faces significant competition as a rain check in Gastrodon and Seismitoad, as they are both immune to Electric as well as Water, which is crucial because Thundurus-T and Rotom-W often force Jellicent out. Taunt and Will-O-Wisp are mandatory to shut down defensive Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Politoed, Seismitoad, Gastrodon, and Skarmory. Taunt also denies Reuniclus from setting up Calm Mind and using Recover, letting Jellicent keep it at bay despite its immunity to burn damage. Further, Will-O-Wisp makes it difficult for offensive threats such as Latios, Thundurus-T, and Garchomp to switch in and force it out. Recover allows Jellicent to stay healthy throughout games, as sand negates its Leftovers recovery. Finally, Night Shade prevents Jellicent from being setup fodder for Substitute users such as Garchomp, Mamoswine, Dragonite, and Tornadus. The given EV spread lets Jellicent outspeed specially defensive Rotom-W and maximizes its bulk against support Landorus-T and Scizor. Leftovers helps Jellicent's longevity because it is often used on sand balance; Air Balloon and Sitrus Berry can be used to spinblock Sand Force Excadrill once; and Eject Button is useful for hyper offensive teams against Life Orb Starmie. Jellicent does a very good job of spreading burns throughout games, especially against slower, bulkier teams. Taunt, Will-O-Wisp, and Recover are all very spammable, as it can be very difficult for opposing teams to force Jellicent out. When facing rain offense, the opposing Tentacruel or Politoed may run Toxic in an attempt to ruin Jellicent. If Jellicent gets in on a predicted Scald from Tentacruel, it's usually best to trade status, limiting Tentacruel's spinning capabilities. Politoed and Tentacruel will often use Protect after Jellicent is poisoned; use this opportunity to switch out into an offensive threat like Latios or Tyranitar that can pressure the opposing team. Against more offensive teams with Starmie, Jellicent can switch in on a predicted spin or sack itself to bring in a revenge killer like Alakazam, Choice Scarf Tyranitar, or Choice Scarf Landorus-T. This is especially effective if Jellicent has Eject Button. Jellicent does a fantastic job shutting down rain offense, so it is often seen on Psychic-type + Spikes sand teams and hyper offense teams with Skarmory. Skarmory switches into Ground-types such as Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Sand Force Excadrill, while Jellicent can handle common rain threats such as Politoed, Keldeo, and Tentacruel for Skarmory. Ferrothorn can also work as a partner; however, the synergy isn't as solid due to its slightly worse matchup against Ground-types. Jellicent appreciates entry hazard support from Skarmory and Ferrothorn to pressure Pursuit Tyranitar and in return blocks Rapid Spin. Psychic-types such as Reuniclus, Alakazam, and Latios enjoy Jellicent's ability to wear down checks like Tyranitar, Skarmory, and bulky Water-types like Gastrodon, keeping entry hazards up by blocking Rapid Spin and pressuring them through Will-O-Wisp and Night Shade. If Jellicent has Eject Button, Alakazam and Choice Scarf Latios can come in and force Starmie out, thus denying any attempt for Starmie to spin. Tyranitar and Scizor can work with Jellicent to pressure Reuniclus through Taunt and Pursuit. Jellicent can also spinblock for Tyranitar's Stealth Rock. Gliscor and support Landorus-T can handle Tyranitar, Garchomp, and Excadrill for Jellicent, while Jellicent can cover Water-types like Tentacruel, Politoed, Keldeo, and Starmie. Landorus-T can bring Jellicent in against them with U-turn. Gliscor works well in particular; Jellicent can burn foes, letting Gliscor outlast them with Poison Heal, and Gliscor can pivot into Rotom's Will-O-Wisp for Jellicent. Eject Button Jellicent can take a hit from Starmie and switch into Choice Scarf Landorus-T to force it out, preventing Starmie from spinning. Excadrill is a spinner that can handle Tyranitar and sponge Latios's Draco Meteors, while Jellicent can deal with the aforementioned Water-types and burn Landorus-T and Skarmory for Excadrill. Excadrill and Jellicent make for a very solid pairing against Calm Mind Reuniclus, as Excadrill handles BoltBeam variants, while Jellicent handles Psychic and Focus Blast variants. Heatran and Jellicent together can completely shut down Volcarona, since Volcarona often has to choose between running Giga Drain and Hidden Power Ground. Poison Heal Breloom enjoys Jellicent handing Fire-types such as Volcarona and Heatran, while it handles Tyranitar for Jellicent. Protect allows Jellicent to scout for Toxic and Choice item users such as Latios, but it prefers Night Shade, which it needs to avoid becoming Taunt bait to opposing Jellicent. Scald prevents Heatran from freely coming in and absorbing Will-O-Wisp, and it better pressures Swords Dance Gliscor, but it's worse than Night Shade against Substitute users such as Tentacruel and Keldeo. Shadow Ball can be used to surprise an unsuspecting Starmie. An offensive set with Water Spout, Shadow Ball, Giga Drain, and Ice Beam, alongside Choice Specs, is possible, but Jellicent's mediocre Special Attack and Speed make this a very fringe option. Colbur Berry lets Jellicent survive Tyranitar's Crunch if it misses a Will-O-Wisp, but it generally wants an item that improves its overall longevity. Finally, Toxic and Hail aren't normally viable options, but they do disrupt momentum on opposing teams.
Jellicent (XY competitive strategy): As far as bulky Water-types are concerned, Jellicent deviates far from the norm due to its host of distinguishable characteristics that make it one of the most effective, self-sufficient defensive Pokemon in RU, while being a very potent stallbreaker at the same time. Its unique Water / Ghost typing makes Jellicent the go-to Pokemon for handling the likes of Mega Glalie, Flygon, Emboar, Escavalier, and many more, while also functioning as a suitable spinblocker. Unlike most defensive Pokemon in RU, Jellicent is neither passive nor easily exploitable thanks to its decent Special Attack stat and access to Taunt + Will-O-Wisp, which prevent it from getting statused and set up on, acting as quite the pest for more defensive teams, especially when Jellicent is making use of Hex. In addition to its merits as a defensive Pokemon, the key trait that makes Jellicent dangerous is its ability to easily spread burns and threaten almost all of the Pokemon designated to sponge them. Vulnerability to Knock Off and Pursuit keep Jellicent from being a perfect wall, though. Jellicent's unfortunate weakness to the very common Knock Off means that it has difficulty switching in on certain Fighting-types and can only hope to handle them one-versus-one, whereas its susceptibility to Pursuit may keep it from consistently checking what it needs to. The combination of Taunt and Will-O-Wisp allows Jellicent to stallbreak, prevent the spread of status effects and entry hazards, and cripple incoming checks with a burn. Recover makes Jellicent a consistent and support-free wall, as it can take the opportunity to replenish its health when a switch is forced or when a wall or passive Pokemon is subdued with Taunt. The choice of Hex or Scald depends entirely on the makeup of your team. For instance, if one carries additional checks to Fire-types such as Mega Camerupt, Fletchinder, and Emboar, then Hex makes Jellicent much more difficult to deal with; however, if one solely relies on Jellicent to check these Pokemon, then Scald must be used in order to do so and is more often than not the better default option. Hex Jellicent can also pressure Blastoise and other Rapid Spin users much better than Scald can when burned. Utilizing Hex does have additional special benefits though: it allows Jellicent to heavily damage Pokemon that otherwise have no difficulty switching in on most defensive threats, such as Venusaur and Sigilyph. Another variation of this set involves dropping Will-O-Wisp and instead going for dual STAB with Scald + Hex, the advantage being that Jellicent gets the best of both worlds in beating Fire-types and destroying statused Pokemon; however, relying on Scald to inflict status isn't always the best approach, especially when Jellicent needs an instantaneous burn to bring down Escavalier, among other threats. With 44 Speed EVs, Jellicent outspeeds minimum Speed Alomomola and can then Taunt it before it can hit Jellicent with a Toxic or get a Wish off. Jellicent can also opt for more Speed EVs—84 specifically—in order to outspeed Hitmontop, Taunt it, and prevent it from using Foresight or Toxic; this helps keep entry hazards up on team builds that rely more on Spikes to win games. The rest of the EVs are focused on Defense, as Jellicent works best by checking physical attackers such as Rhyperior, Flygon, Escavalier, Fletchinder, and Emboar; however, a specially defensive spread can find use by allowing Jellicent to more easily switch in on Mega Camerupt and Diancie and pivot out of more ferocious special attackers such as Exploud. Water Absorb should be the only ability Jellicent uses, as the immunity to Scald burns is crucial for it to function. Colbur Berry compromises Jellicent's passive recovery in exchange for a much better matchup against Knock Off-wielding Fighting-types such as Hitmonlee. In addition, Colbur Berry makes Jellicent much less vulnerable to Pursuit and allows it to beat Dark-types such as Sneasel one-on-one. Jellicent can switch in on many physical attackers, including Mega Glalie, Rhyperior, Samurott, Fletchinder, and Druddigon, and threaten them with a Scald or Will-O-Wisp. While Jellicent has no trouble switching in on various physical and special attackers, avoid getting Jellicent statused at all costs because it will be forced to Recover more often and have difficulty staying in to stallbreak. Speaking of which, the combination of Taunt + Will-O-Wisp should only be used versus slower targets; against faster teams, it's simply better to attack or anticipate a switch and use Will-O-Wisp. Be wary of using Will-O-Wisp too recklessly with a Houndoom on the opposing team, though. Jellicenet may also switch in on certain defensive Pokemon such as Diancie and prevent it from using Heal Bell or setting up Stealth Rock and spin block Rapid Spin users such as Blastoise. Fairy-types such as Mega Audino work well with Jellicent by sponging Knock Offs, whereas Diancie can check Fire-types such as Houndoom and allow Jellicent to use Hex freely in addition to soft-checking certain Psychic-types such as Meloetta, Hoopa, and Sigilpyh. Both can also offer cleric support on the off-chance Jellicent does end up getting crippled by status. Steel-types such as Registeel make for good partners as well due to the fact that they can check Electric-types that bother Jellicent. Both can also provide Stealth Rock support that is useful in chipping away at the opposing team in tandem with Jellicent's ability to spread status. Bulky Dragon-types such as Druddigon and defensive Flygon also make for good partners with their ability to keep Electric-types in line. Druddigon can provide some unique support by spreading paralysis with Glare, which aids Hex variants of Jellicent, while Flygon can clear off entry hazards such as Toxic Spikes. On balanced teams, offensive partners such as Emboar can check Grass-types and Houndoom for Jellicent, whereas Virizion has excellent defensive synergy with Jellicent and appreciate its ability to spread burns so that they have an easier time busting through their checks. On more defensive teams, bulky Venusaur and Roselia make for fantastic partners due to their great synergy, as well as hold the ability to absorb Toxic Spikes and spread around status. Roselia in particular can sponge any status move thanks to Natural Cure and give Jellicent Toxic Spikes support, which is especially effective when Jellicent is using Hex. Offensive sets on Jellicent are viable options on more specific builds such as Spikes-stacking offense that require a special attacking Ghost-type to keep the momentum up. On those kinds of teams, Jellicent can incorporate Choice Scarf, Choice Specs, or simply a more offensive EV spread. Surprisingly, Jellicent has a wide array of offensive moves it can make use of when employing these sets, including Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, Energy Ball, Dazzling Gleam, and even Trick on Choice sets. Trick Room allows Jellicent to combine the supportive and offensive roles into one, allowing it to set up this type of support for wallbreakers such as Mega Camerupt or make use of Trick Room alongside its decent power and great coverage to sweep itself. On the main set, Jellicent can incorporate other defensive moves such as Toxic and Magic Coat. Toxic can stall out certain walls at a faster pace; however, Hex + Will-O-Wisp will generally suffice in taking down defensive Pokemon. Magic Coat, on the other hand, can be used over Taunt to render Qwilfish useless and turn the tables on faster Taunt and entry hazard users.
Jellicent (SM competitive strategy): Jellicent is a great Pokemon in PU with an excellent defensive typing, helpful stats, and access to good utility moves such as Recover and Will-O-Wisp that allows it to stay healthy throughout the match and cripple Pokemon. Thanks to its bulk, it can also check prevalent foes such as Primeape and Alolan Sandslash. Additionally, Jellicent can run potent offensive sets like Choice Specs and Trick Room thanks to its powerful Water Spout and good dual STAB coverage, allowing it to become a threatening wallbreaker or late-game sweeper. Jellicent's useful Ghost typing also gives it a niche on hazard stacking teams, giving it a strong matchup against spinners like Hitmonchan and Alolan Sandslash, though both can cripple it with Toxic. Despite these attributes, Jellicent is very prone to residual damage, meaning that it can be worn down quite easily. Jellicent is also passive when used defensively, allowing offensive threats such as special Victreebel and Oricorio-E in for essentially no risk, while Choice Specs Jellicent is heavily reliant on prediction and can be exploited by threats like Jynx, Lurantis, and Dodrio easily once locked into an attack. Finally, Jellicent is also easily Pursuit trapped by Pokemon such as Stoutland and Skuntank. Hex is Jellicent's best STAB attack, turning into a 130 Base Power attack in conjunction with Will-O-Wisp or Toxic while dealing neutral damage against a majority of the tier. Scald is an option over Hex that can be more useful against Pokemon like Mudsdale, Stoutland, and Kangaskhan, but the power difference is not very notable against the Pokemon it hits harder, and Hex generally will be dishing out more damage. Taunt is used to stop setup sweepers such as Carracosta as well as to prevent other walls such as Clefairy and Gastrodon from recovering health or crippling Jellicent with Toxic. Will-O-Wisp is used to cripple physical attackers like Skuntank and Hitmonchan. Toxic can be used over Will-O-Wisp to cripple opposing walls like Eelektross and Cryogonal. Colbur Berry's damage reduction allows Jellicent to retaliate and cripple Dark-type Pokemon like Skuntank with Will-O-Wisp, as well as granting it a better matchup against Pokemon with Dark-type coverage like Gurdurr. Alternatively, Rindo Berry significantly improves Jellicent's matchup against Simisear, which commonly runs Grassium Z. Leftovers is an option over either Berry, giving Jellicent passive recovery and making it less easily worn down by chip damage. Leftovers also gives Jellicent a bit more breathing room to use its other moves instead of Recover when it's low on HP. The Speed EVs allow Jellicent to outspeed maximum Speed Carracosta and cripple it with Taunt before it can use Shell Smash. Cursed Body generally is more useful than Water Absorb, allowing Jellicent to disable the moves of Choice-locked Pokemon like Stoutland and Pokemon such as Gurdurr and Kangaskhan, which only have one move to break Jellicent. This set is more defensive, which allows the player to more liberally switch Jellicent into Pokemon that it walls like Primeape. Thanks to its Ghost typing, Jellicent should be used as a spinblocker against spinners like Alolan Sandslash and Hitmonchan, although it must be wary of Toxic from the former and Thunder Punch from the latter. Even if Jellicent is in a position where spinners can wear it down or cripple it, Jellicent should be played aggressively to stop the opposing team from removing entry hazards. It is essential to keep Jellicent as healthy as possible and avoid being crippled by Toxic, as this puts Jellicent on a timer and hinders its longevity. Be wary when playing against status absorbers such as Gurdurr and Stoutland; you don't want to burn them with Scald or Will-O-Wisp or badly poison them with Toxic, as being statused increases their power greatly. When Colbur Berry is equipped, Jellicent should use Will-O-Wisp against Dark-type Pokemon like Skuntank and Alolan Raticate. As a defensive utility Pokemon and spinblocker, Jellicent fits well on many hazard stacking teams. As such, entry hazard users such as Ferroseed and Roselia work wonderfully with it. These two also have the added benefit of absorbing Toxic and, in the latter's case, Toxic Spikes for Jellicent and being solid Electric- and Grass-type switch-ins. In the same regard, Stealth Rock users also share defensive synergy with Jellicent. Stealth Rock users such as Regirock, Mudsdale, Alolan Sandslash, and Ferroseed make for good partners. Regirock, Mudsdale, and Ferroseed can take on Normal-types like Kangaskhan, while Alolan Sandslash can check Grass-type Pokemon like Abomasnow. In return, Jellicent can counter Fighting-type Pokemon such as Primeape, Hitmonchan, and Gurdurr. Entry hazard removal is very important, since Jellicent is worn down easily by all forms of entry hazards. Thus, spinners like Hitmonchan and Alolan Sandslash make for good partners. If Jellicent is not on a hazard stacking team, then Defog users such as Cryogonal, Lurantis, and Skuntank work just as well. Cryogonal also checks special attackers like Aurorus and Rotom-F, Lurantis can check Grass-type Pokemon and act as a cleric with Aromatherapy, and Skuntank can Pursuit trap troublesome Pokemon like Haunter and Alolan Raichu. Offensive Pokemon like Simisear and Lycanroc that are weak to Water-type Pokemon like Floatzel also appreciate Jellicent's defensive utility. Simisear also checks Grass-type Pokemon like Victreebel and Roselia, while Lycanroc can break Pokemon like Eelektross. Finally, Pokemon like Mudsdale and Eelektross can also help Jellicent against Electric-type Pokemon like Lanturn, while Pokemon like Oricorio-E take on Grass-types such as Victreebel, Lurantis, and Simisage. Water Spout is an incredibly strong attack when Jellicent has an opportunity to come in on Pokemon like Mudsdale and Regirock, able to KO both at full power and KOing Pokemon like Oricorio-E after Stealth Rock. Shadow Ball lets Jellicent pressure Pokemon like Musharna and opposing Jellicent. Taunt is a fantastic tool that lets Jellicent break through defensive Pokemon like Ferroseed, Clefairy, and Audino, stopping the former two from setting up entry hazards against it, while checking Pokemon like Mudsdale and Regirock more reliably, preventing a crippling Toxic or a Stealth Rock on a predicted Recover. Hydro Pump with a Colbur Berry is an option if Jellicent's team already has a Z-Move user, providing a powerful move that isn't reliant on HP. It is, however, noticeably weaker versus targets like Eelektross and less accurate. Further, Waterium Z mitigates the downside of Water Spout getting weaker with lower HP. Waterium Z lets Jellicent bypass the HP requirements for a powerful Water Spout, once, with a 200 BP Hydro Vortex. This nuke can also be used more generally to snag important KOs, such as always KOing Assault Vest Eelektross after a Water Spout, or potentially KOing Choice Specs Drampa after a Water Spout and Stealth Rock. Colbur Berry with Hydro Pump is an option alongside a different Z-Move user, stopping Dark-types like Skuntank and Absol from threatening Jellicent as easily. However, the big drop in power sacrifices the 2HKO on, for example, Eelektross after Stealth Rock. Cursed Body with Recover lets Jellicent fish for disables against Pokemon like Freeze-Dry Cryogonal and Earthquake Mudsdale, but Water Absorb's Water immunity helps against Pokemon like opposing Jellicent, giving a more comfortable entry against a slower Jellicent. It may also refill HP for Water Spout. However, opposing Jellicent can predict its entry and nail it with a boosted Hex or Shadow Ball. Offensive Taunt Jellicent is a deadly wallbreaker that can provide a lot of defensive utility, checking Pokemon like Primeape and Alolan Sandslash. Jellicent should, however, be careful about taking unecessary chip damage and status when trying to switch into Pokemon like Mudsdale, especially if it has already used Hydro Vortex. Toxic especially hinders its longevity and Water Spout's power. Taunt + Recover makes Jellicent a solid stallbreaker, but Jellicent it must be careful about wasting its 8 Water Spout PP against special walls like Audino. Whether Jellicent should preserve its Z-Move for later in the match, when heavy chip damage may weaken Water Spout, or use it more proactively tends to depend on the specific situation. Choice Specs Drampa is one scary threat often worth removing with Hydro Vortex, once it is below 50% HP, since it semi-consistently switches into Recover and Shadow Ball, proceeding to bother Jellicent's teammates. Walls like specially defensive Torterra are other targets, since they can prevent Jellicent from making meaningful progress otherwise. If there's no particularly great Hydro Vortex target, it's very useful to save it so Pokemon like Rotom-F and Stoutland can't freely switch in later, once Jellicent has too low HP to reliably threaten them. Offensive Z-Move Jellicent fits on bulky offense and balance teams that want Jellicent's defensive utility against Pokemon like Alolan Sandslash and Primeape, but also appreciate it doubling up as a powerful wallbreaker. Pokemon that can check Drampa are essential with Jellicent. Carbink can defensively check Drampa and other Jellicent checks like Oricorio-E and Cryogonal, as well as providing Stealth Rock to help wear down said checks. Silvally-Fairy can offensively check Drampa while discouraging it to click Draco Meteor, and it can bring Jellicent in on Mudsdale and Regriock with U-turn for wallbreaking opportunities. Primeape can similarly check Drampa offensively and bring Jellicent into Mudsdale and opposing bulky Jellicent. Oricorio-E and Oricorio-G checks are helpful, such as Lanturn and Regirock. Lanturn can also help check Rotom-F and opposing Lanturn while providing Heal Bell support; this is helpful, as Jellicent is likely to take Toxic eventually when switching into Mudsdale and especially Regirock. Regirock as a teammate can instead check special walls like Cryogonal and offer Stealth Rock support. Jellicent appreciates entry hazard removers like Cryogonal, Alolan Sandslash, and Silvally-Fairy to keep its Water Spouts as powerful as possible. These Pokemon can assist in checking the likes of Drampa, Victreebel, and Oricorio-E for Jellicent. Late-game cleaners like Calm Mind or Trick Room Musharna and Calm Mind Oricorio-E appreciate Jellicent breaking through special walls, like Audino. They can also help check Victreebel for Jellicent, while Oricorio-E can also check Torterra. Ice Beam lets Jellicent pressure Dragon-types like Drampa and Altaria that would otherwise easily wall it and eases its task of cleaning late-game, netting considerable damage on targets such as Torterra, Victreebel, and Oricorio-E. Alternatively, Recover allows Jellicent to play a more active role early- to mid-game, letting it function as a solid switch-in to foes like Gurdurr and Alolan Sandslash throughout the match, making it harder to revenge kill, and allowing it to consistently set up Trick Room later in the game. A Quiet nature along with 0 Speed IVs allows Jellicent to outspeed almost the entire metagame when Trick Room is active. Ghostium Z turns Shadow Ball into Never-Ending Nightmare, which lets Jellicent take out a large portion of the metagame, including bulky Psychic-types such as Musharna and Bronzor and prevalent Water-type checks such as Victreebel, Lurantis, and Abomasnow, after slight chip damage. Alternatively, Waterium Z lets Jellicent bypass Hydro Pump's imperfect accuracy and deal considerably more damage to targets such as Gurdurr, Eelektross, and Stoutland. Jellicent performs best late-game, when it can utilize its good coverage and ability to outspeed the majority of the metagame under Trick Room to function as a cleaner. However, it can also attempt to wallbreak early-game by threatening Stealth Rock setters such as Regirock and Mudsdale, foes its typing allows it to switch into like Primeape, and targets that may switch in expecting defensive Jellicent such as Drampa and Victreebel. If Jellicent is running Recover, it can also be used early- to mid-game as a solid switch-in to foes such as Alolan Sandslash and Gurdurr and utilize forced switches to regain health. It can also perform double switches to get the upper hand on expected switch-ins like Cryogonal and Lanturn. Otherwise, Jellicent should ideally be preserved until late-game and attempt to set up Trick Room once priority users that threaten it such as Skuntank, Absol, and Kangaskhan have fainted and specially defensive foes like Cryogonal, Lanturn, and Articuno have been KOed or severely weakened. Jellicent should ideally attempt to set up Trick Room against foes that can't weaken it with coverage or cripple it with Taunt, such as Mudsdale, Alolan Sandslash, and Combusken, as well as against Choice item users locked into unfavorable moves, such as Primeape, Aurorus, and Drampa. Jellicent partners well with other slow Pokemon that can benefit from Trick Room turns, such as Gurdurr, Musharna, and Drampa. Gurdurr is an excellent offensive partner, as it is able to switch into Jellicent's checks such as Kangaskhan, Cryogonal, and Alolan Persian. In return, Jellicent is able to break through foes that Gurdurr struggles with such as Mudsdale, Claydol, and Qwilfish. Musharna can support Jellicent by increasing its wallbreaking potential with Future Sight, notably letting Jellicent break through special walls such as Articuno and Lanturn, as well as Dragon-types like Drampa and Altaria in case it isn't running Ice Beam, and giving variants that lack Recover additional opportunities to wallbreak with Healing Wish. In return, Jellicent can break through Steel-types that Musharna struggles with such as Alolan Sandslash and Metang. Drampa has a notably good matchup against Grass-types such as Victreebel that can check Jellicent when Trick Room is not active and is able to apply pressure to specially defensive foes like Lanturn and Eelektross. In return, it highly appreciates Jellicent being able to check Silvally-Fairy as well as Fighting- and Ice-types like Gurdurr and Alolan Sandslash. Eelektross provides Jellicent with momentum via a slow Volt Switch, appreciates Trick Room turns to pick off weakened foes, and assists it in pressuring opposing Water- and Grass-types such as Lanturn and Lurantis. Jellicent fits well on entry hazard-stacking teams, acting as a solid late-game cleaner that benefits from Stealth Rock and Spikes support, as well as a decent spinblocker due to its good matchup against common spinners such as Alolan Sandslash, Claydol, and non-Thunder Punch Hitmonchan. The chip damage from entry hazards guarantees its ability to OHKO foes such as Victreebel, Oricorio-E, and Rotom-F and pressure switch-ins such as Cryogonal and Articuno. Regirock, in addition to providing Stealth Rock support, is notably able to counter Cryogonal as well as deal with Skuntank, Absol, Kangaskhan, and Calm Mind Oricorio-E, and it appreciates Jellicent threatening Fighting-types like Gurdurr as well as Ground-types like Mudsdale. Torterra can assist Jellicent by pressuring Eelektross as well as Water-types like Lanturn and Gastrodon. Ferroseed has great defensive synergy with Jellicent, as it can handle physical attackers that Jellicent struggles with such as Kangaskhan and Skuntank and scout Choice-locked foes such as Drampa for potential coverage. In return, Jellicent can check Fire- and Fighting-types that threaten Ferroseed like Combusken and Primeape. Cryogonal is an ideal spinner to pair with Jellicent, as it can take on threats like Victreebel, Oricorio-G, and Lanturn that are capable of checking Jellicent outside of Trick Room, and in return, it appreciates Jellicent handling Regirock, Metang, and Choice Scarf variants of Alolan Sandslash. Kangaskhan and Jellicent assist each other by pressuring common targets and easing either Pokemon's job of late-game cleaning. Kangaskhan notably has a good matchup against foes that Jellicent relies on Trick Room to beat, like Victreebel and Stoutland, and Jellicent can clear roadblocks for Kangaskhan such as Mudsdale and Gurdurr. Primeape, aside from providing momentum with U-turn and bringing Jellicent in against targets like Mudsdale and Musharna, can revenge kill checks to Jellicent such as Kangaskhan, Absol, and Alolan Raichu. Pursuit users such as Skuntank and Stoutland can greatly assist Jellicent by Pursuit trapping foes that threaten it outside of Trick Room such as Oricorio-G, Alolan Raichu, and Haunter, as well as by alleviating pressure on it to check Musharna. Both teammates appreciate Jellicent's ability to deal with physical walls such as Mudsdale and Regirock as well as Fighting-types like Primeape and Gurdurr. With maximum health and Water Spout, Jellicent can break through dedicated special walls such as Audino and Clefairy, and Water Spout's accuracy makes it easy to spam early-game when Jellicent is likely at full health. Shadow Ball is Jellicent's best Ghost-type STAB attack and hits Pokemon that are immune or resistant to Water Spout such as Jynx, Gastrodon, and Lanturn. Hydro Pump is a good alternative Water-type attack once Water Spout is weakened. Ice Beam is a good coverage attack that hits Grass- and Dragon-types like Lurantis and Drampa harder than Jellicent's other attacks. Trick is an option over Ice Beam due to its ability to cripple walls that switch into Jellicent such as Articuno and bulky pivot Lanturn. Maximum Speed investment ensures that Jellicent outspeeds Jolly Aggron and can revenge kill everything slower. Water Absorb is useful for regaining HP so Water Spout is powerful again. Jellicent is best used as an early- and mid-game wallbreaker due to its high damage output when at full health. Thus, try to keep Jellicent as healthy as possible throughout the match, preferably getting it in play through a slow pivot or well-played double switch. Water Spout is easily the most spammable move in Jellicent's arsenal, so use it when Jellicent is healthy and use Hydro Pump when Jellicent is weakened unless you cannot afford the accuracy drop in the given scenario. Jellicent should use Shadow Ball when predicting Water-immune Pokemon like Gastrodon and Jynx to switch in. If running Trick, make sure your opponent feels comfortable switching into Jellicent with their special wall first, or else you may mispredict and lose Jellicent's Choice Specs with no gain. Lastly, be wary of Pursuit users like Skuntank and Stoutland. Entry hazard setters such as Regirock, Roselia, and Alolan Sandslash pair well with Jellicent and bolster its offensive prowess. For example, Jellicent is able to 2HKO Ferroseed after Spikes damage. Entry hazard removal is mandatory to keep Jellicent as healthy as possible. Pokemon like Alolan Sandslash, Skuntank, and Silvally-Fairy can be useful additions for this role. The former two have the added utility of switching into Grass-types, while the last can be a designated Fighting-type check, since Jellicent doesn't function as one with its offensive set. Silvally-Fairy can also bring in Jellicent safely with Parting Shot or U-turn. Physical attackers such as Stoutland, Aggron, and Gurdurr pair well, as they can break through counters like Roselia, Lanturn, and Articuno. In return, Jellicent can break through the physical walls that threaten them, such as Regirock and Mudsdale. Additionally, Pokemon like Mudsdale, Eelektross, Roselia, Skuntank, and Oricorio-E that can switch into Electric- and Grass-type Pokemon make for good teammates. Lastly, Pokemon like Omastar, Gurdurr, Alolan Persian, and Carracosta that can take advantage of Skuntank after it uses Pursuit and Choice-locked Stoutland are very useful. Alolan Persian also provides Z-Parting Shot support, which essentially gives a second life to Jellicent. A specially defensive set can also be run to take on special attackers like Eelektross and Simisear more easily, but this means that Jellicent will have trouble against physical attackers such as Kangaskhan.
Jellicent (SS competitive strategy): Jellicent is one of the best defensive Water-types in PU. Compared to its competition in Wishiwashi and Lanturn, Jellicent brings to the table an excellent Ghost typing further enhanced by its myriad of supportive options such as Will-O-Wisp, Taunt, and Recover. Because of this, Jellicent is an effective switch-in to to various physical attackers such as Gallade and Perrserker. Jellicent also provides teams additional utility by punishing Water-types or Choice-locked attackers, depending on if it's running Water Absorb or Cursed Body. Jellicent can also become an incredible offensive threat when equipped with Choice Specs thanks to its access to the rare and powerful Water Spout. However, defensive Jellicent can be rather passive due to its low offensive capabilities and reliance on status as the typical way of dealing damage. Furthermore, Jellicent struggles versus common special attackers such as Whimsicott and Vikavolt, as many of them can comfortably switch in and typically are not overly bothered by Will-O-Wisp or Toxic. Will-O-Wisp is the preferred status move as a way to catch many physical attackers that threaten Jellicent such as Absol and Silvally-Ghost; however, Toxic can be used here in order to better cripple bulkier checks such as Lanturn and opposing Jellicent. Hex is the sole attacking move on this set because it pairs well with its status moves versus bulkier defensive answers such as Lanturn. Colbur Berry is the optimal item in order to weaken Knock Off from the likes of Sneasel and Gallade, but Heavy-Duty Boots can be used in order to be immune to entry hazards. 76 Speed EVs allow Jellicent to outspeed Jolly Glastrier. Gigalith makes a fantastic partner for Jellicent, as not only is it a good check to special attackers like Haunter, but with Sand Stream and hazard support, the residual damage Jellicent can spread with Will-O-Wisp and Toxic can severely cripple offensive answers like Whimsicott and Vikavolt. Conversely, Gigalith appreciates Jellicent's ability to check threats such as Perrserker and Sandaconda. Silvally-Fairy is also a fine partner, since it acts as a Knock Off absorber if Jellicent isn't running Colbur Berry and handles Dark-types such as Absol. Water Spout is an incredibly strong, STAB-boosted attack when Jellicent is at full HP and should be the move that is used most of the time, as it's able to hit the large majority of the tier, including defensive stalwarts like Sandaconda, Regirock, and Aggron, making Jellicent incredibly difficult to switch into. Special tanks like Audino can't switch into it, making the only real reliable switch-ins bulky, Water-resistant Pokemon like Ferroseed, Wishiwashi, and Eldegoss. However, Shadow Ball hits these foes neutrally, forcing severe chip damage. Trick lets Jellicent cripple checks like Audino and Ferroseed. Surf is a strong secondary Water-type attack in case Jellicent gets worn down. Hydro Pump can also be run, as it has a higher Base Power, making it more difficult to switch into, notably 2HKOing Aromatisse and Tangela after Stealth Rock. However, its inaccuracy makes it less reliable than Surf. Pairing Jellicent with pivots like Archeops and Togedemaru lets it get onto the field safely, usually against physical walls lured in by these pivots like Quagsire, Tangela, and Regirock. Entry hazards irritate Jellicent and weaken Water Spout, making deterrents or removal in the form of Charizard, Hattrem, and Eldegoss incredibly valuable. Furthermore, it loves having hazard support to make it even harder to switch into, meaning hazard setters like Garbodor, Aggron, and Ferroseed are valued teammates, as they also form a defensive core to handle Pokemon that offensively pressure Jellicent, such as Sneasel, Gallade, and Ribombee. Defensive answers to Electric- and Grass-types like Sandaconda, Eldegoss, and Charizard are incredibly good to cover Jellicent's weaknesses.
Hydreigon (BW competitive strategy): Hydreigon carves out a decent niche as a strong special attacker thanks to its great STAB moves and incredible coverage. Hydreigon also has some good defensive utility thanks to its decent bulk, immunity to Ground, Psychic, and Spikes, and resistance to common moves like Scald, Hydro Pump, Volt Switch, and Pursuit. Its Pursuit resistance and better coverage give it a niche over the often superior Latios, better defeating bulkier sand teams that rely on Pursuit Tyranitar to remove wallbreaking threats. However, Hydreigon is outpaced and forced out by very common offensive Pokemon like Latios, Keldeo, Alakazam, Garchomp, and Terrakion. This is made worse by Hydreigon's weaknesses to their common attacks like Draco Meteor, Focus Blast, Outrage, and Hidden Power Ice, as well as priority moves like Ice Shard and Mach Punch. It can't fit all of Dark Pulse, Focus Blast, and Roost, which means it will either lack crucial coverage or the sustainability to wallbreak throughout the game. Lacking Roost can especially hurt due to the residual damage Hydreigon takes from sand, Life Orb, and burns. Latios outclasses Hydreigon a lot of the time due to its better defensive utility in checking Pokemon like Keldeo, Thundurus-T, and Breloom, better Speed tier to outpace Pokemon like Garchomp, Terrakion, Volcarona, and Keldeo, and greater set versatility on varying team archetypes. Fire Blast OHKOes or 2HKOes every Steel-type besides Heatran. Dark Pulse is a reliable STAB option that hits Psychic-types like Reuniclus and Slowking super effectively and can beat shakier checks like Gastrodon with its flinch chance, while Dragon Pulse boasts higher overall power. Focus Blast nails Heatran and hits Tyranitar much harder than any other move, making Hydreigon better able to threaten sand teams. Roost heals residual damage and gives Hydreigon better sustainability to take on the bulky sand and rain teams it's meant to threaten. Roost can be run with both Fire Blast and Focus Blast by dropping Dark Pulse, but this leaves Hydreigon lacking a spammable STAB move. Modest is largely preferred over Timid for damaging the Pokemon Hydreigon is meant to threaten, like Tyranitar, Rotom-W, Gliscor, Heatran, and Politoed. However, Timid can be used if your team really needs Hydreigon to outspeed Pokemon like Kyurem, Modest Thundurus-T, and Jolly Excadrill. Life Orb gets many important 2HKOs and OHKOs. Choice Specs can be used instead with Draco Meteor, Dark Pulse, Fire Blast, and Focus Blast to make Hydreigon even more powerful while avoiding Life Orb recoil. However, it lets Protect Pokemon commonly found on sand teams scout Hydreigon and easily play around it. This set should aim to come in on resisted and weak attacks from Pokemon like Reuniclus, Gliscor, Tyranitar, Rotom-W, Politoed, and Jellicent. Will-O-Wisp is a particularly common entry point, since Hydreigon often forces out its users. Roost Hydreigon should attempt to stay healthy throughout the game against bulkier sand and rain teams, which it can pivot around and threaten, while it can be used less conservatively against offensive teams because it won't be able to switch in as consistently. Against Pokemon that Hydreigon cannot OHKO and have recovery, such as Gastrodon, Tentacruel in rain, and Hippowdon, try to wear them down with other attacks, mainly Dark Pulse, to get them into KO range of Draco Meteor. Hydreigon fits well on offensive teams thanks to it heavily threatening sand teams. As a teammate, sand staple Chople Berry Tyranitar can set up Stealth Rock and Pursuit trap Latios and Alakazam. Psychic-types like Alakazam and Reuniclus can pressure Fighting-types, form a Spikes-immune core with Hydreigon, and benefit from Hydreigon denting their checks like Tyranitar, Jirachi, and Celebi. Alakazam also brings a good matchup against offensive Pokemon like Latios, Keldeo, Terrakion, and Volcarona. Steel-type entry hazard setters like Skarmory, Ferrothorn, Heatran, and Jirachi support Hydreigon and switch into Dragon-type moves. Skarmory can also pivot into opposing Ground-types like Garchomp and Landorus-T, while Ferrothorn can act as a sturdier answer to Water-types like Starmie. Heatran can spread status with Toxic to further wear down Hydreigon's switch-ins while better pivoting into Ice-type moves from Pokemon like Rotom-W and and Thundurus-T. Specially defensive Jirachi can use Wish to give Hydreigon more longevity while taking Dragon- and Ice-type moves like Heatran. Hydreigon appreciates pivot support from Pokemon like Landorus-T, Jirachi, and Rotom-W to get in on its desired targets safely, and their attacks wear down foes for it. Water-types like Keldeo, Jellicent, and Rotom-W check Volcarona and Heatran and enjoy Hydreigon threatening Grass-types like Celebi and Ferrothorn. Keldeo helps handle hyper offense teams, namely handling Scizor, Dragonite, and boosted Cloyster while Hydreigon wears down Rotom-W and Celebi. Terrakion and Mamoswine similarly threaten hyper offense threats and can wallbreak alongside Hydreigon. Choice Scarf with a Timid nature and U-turn can make Hydreigon a pivoting revenge killer that can bring more powerful teammates in. Unfortunately, it is outclassed by Latios, which outspeeds +2 Dragonite and Choice Scarf Keldeo. Choice Scarf Keldeo and Garchomp also outclass Hydreigon for similar reasons. Expert Belt can be used to avoid Life Orb recoil and still get a power boost against Pokemon Hydreigon hits super effectively. However, it sacrifices the power boost Draco Meteor needs to really threaten targets like Gliscor, Rotom-W, and Politoed. To mitigate the loss of power, Expert Belt must be used with a Modest nature. Earth Power can be run over Focus Blast or Fire Blast to hit all of Heatran, Tentacruel, Excadrill, Jirachi, and Tyranitar in one moveslot. However, it misses out on hitting Ferrothorn and Skarmory sufficiently while also not hitting Tyranitar hard enough to adequetly threaten sand teams. Taunt can be used over Dark Pulse to punish passive Pokemon like Jellicent, Reuniclus, Gastrodon, and Ferrothorn at the expense of a reliable STAB move. Substitute can be considered over Dark Pulse with Expert Belt to let Hydreigon punish switches, evade status, and lessen prediction. However, it has the same issue as Taunt while also making it easy for Pokemon like Gastrodon and Jellicent to take advantage of Hydreigon, since they can recover on Draco Meteor and leave it with lost health from Substitute and nothing to show for it. Superpower may seem like a good option to hit the same targets as Focus Blast while also doing solid damage to Chansey, but it's inferior to Focus Blast against everything besides Chansey.
Hydreigon (XY competitive strategy): Hydreigon's high base Special Attack and good overall stats are part of what makes it an important threat in the UnderUsed metagame. Hydreigon's typing gives it almost perfect neutral coverage with its STAB moves; the only type that resists both is Fairy. Defensively, Hydreigon's typing has some great resistances and, taking Levitate into consideration, two immunities. Hydreigon's movepool is simply fantastic, which makes it a really versatile threat. However, Hydreigon's weakness to Fighting- and Bug-type attacks, both of which are common in UnderUsed, and the fact its base 98 Speed isn't that great, make it hard for Hydreigon to deal with offensive teams. Draco Meteor hits most Pokemon incredibly hard and not many foes resist it, making it a great opening move for this set. Dark Pulse allows Hydreigon to hit Steel-type Pokemon that resist Draco Meteor, especially Bronzong, for good damage and also has decent super effective coverage. Superpower allows Hydreigon to threaten Blissey, Empoleon, Snorlax, and Umbreon with a potential KO after hitting them with Draco Meteor. Fire Blast hits Steel-type Pokemon for super effective damage, making it useful on sets without Dark Pulse, and also allows Hydreigon to hit bulky Grass-type Pokemon for massive damage without relying on Draco Meteor. Roost gives Hydreigon more longevity and helps it deal with Life Orb recoil. Iron Tail allows Hydreigon to 2HKO Florges and other less common Fairy-type Pokemon, which would easily wall this set. Flash Cannon can be used because it has 100% accuracy and hits Fairy-types not called Florges harder than Iron Tail; however, it won't 2HKO Florges without some prior damage. The listed EVs maximize Hydreigon's Special Attack and Speed. A Hasty nature is needed to outspeed Pokemon such as Haxorus, Lucario, and Roserade and to not Speed tie with base 85 Speed Pokemon running a positive nature. 4 Attack EVs make Superpower and Iron Tail slightly stronger. If no physical move is being used, Timid is the preferred nature, and the 4 remaining EVs should be put in Special Defense to prevent Download users from getting a Special Attack boost. Life Orb is the only item this set should run; otherwise it struggles to 2HKO some walls. More often than not, starting with Draco Meteor is the best option. Exceptions are if there's a Fairy-type Pokemon or a bulky Steel-type Pokemon in the opponent's team; in those cases, prediction could be used to 2HKO them if they switch in. This set should be used early- or mid-game to weaken the opposing team and allow a different Pokemon to do the sweeping. Hydreigon isn't frail, but it isn't particularly bulky either. Don't play Hydreigon recklessly, and try to avoid taking any unnecessary hits, as otherwise it can be worn down fairly quickly. Entry hazard support is extremely important, as it helps Hydreigon get some important 2HKOs against some walls, such as Blissey and Umbreon, and helps it wear down the opponent's team. Pokemon such as Mega Aggron, Empoleon, and Roserade can set up entry hazards, and they can deal with Fairy-type Pokemon that might give Hydreigon problems. Pokemon that can deal with fast revenge killers or priority users, such as Crobat and Mega Aggron, help Hydreigon stay alive longer. Sweepers that can take advantage of Hydreigon's wallbreaking capabilities, such as Mega Sceptile and Kingdra, are good partners. Draco Meteor is strong enough to OHKO most offensive threats that don't resist it, especially if Stealth Rock is on the opponent's side of the field, making it great for revenge killing. Dark Pulse is a secondary STAB attack, that allows Hydreigon to revenge kill or clean up late-game without Special Attack drops. Fire Blast hits Steel- and Grass-type Pokemon for good damage and is Hydreigon's best option against Pokemon such as Lucario and Whimsicott. Dragon Pulse can be used as another consistent STAB attack; however, it doesn't give Hydreigon any useful coverage. U-turn is a good way of gaining momentum and does chip damage to potential switch-ins. The given EVs maximize Hydreigon's Special Attack and Speed. 4 EVs in Special Defense prevent it from giving a Special Attack boost to Download users. A Timid nature with a Choice Scarf is needed to be able to outspeed every unboosted Pokemon in the tier, as well as Choice Scarf users such as Darmanitan and Krookodile. This set only really works as a revenge killer and late-game cleaner, as it lacks the power to fulfill any other role. Hydreigon's U-turn might be weak, but it is still a great spammable move because it steals momentum from the opponent if they decide to switch out. Hydreigon appreciates entry hazard support, especially Stealth Rock, because it needs it to be able to OHKO Pokemon such as Mega Aerodactyl. This set is really vulnerable to Fairy-types, making Pokemon such as Mega Aggron and Empoleon great partners, thanks to their ability to effortlessly switch into Fairy-type Pokemon and set up Stealth Rock. Strong physical attackers, such as Heracross and Infernape, can be used to take advantage of special walls trying to beat Hydreigon. Taunt allows Hydreigon to shut down most specially defensive Pokemon that try to counter it, such as Umbreon, Blissey, and Vaporeon. It also allows Hydreigon to act as a stallbreaker and stop some entry hazard setters, such as Tentacruel and Swampert. Roost helps Hydreigon stay healthy, which means the aforementioned walls are not able to wear it down after being Taunted. Dark Pulse is Hydreigon's main attack move because it has great neutral coverage and a 20% flinch chance, which makes it extremely spammable. Dragon Pulse is slightly stronger than Dark Pulse, which is helpful for wearing down most Pokemon. Fire Blast OHKOes Whimsicott, which is otherwise a big problem for this set, and also allows Hydreigon to OHKO Chesnaught and Forretress. Draco Meteor can be used to do huge immediate damage, because Dark Pulse already provides a consistent STAB attack without drawbacks. The given EV spread maximizes Hydreigon's Special Attack and Speed, while 4 EVs in Special Defense prevent Download users from getting a Special Attack boost. A Timid nature is needed to be able to outspeed Pokemon such as Haxorus, Krookodile, and Roserade. Life Orb helps Hydreigon wear down walls significantly faster, as well as making it a much bigger offensive threat in general. However, Leftovers is an option because it makes Hydreigon much harder to wear down, which helps it deal with Scald users, such as Suicune and Vaporeon. This set is pretty straightforward. Attack the opponent's team until you need to use Taunt to shut down a wall. Counting Taunt turns is a must, because if Hydreigon is at low health the turn its effect ends, the foe might be able to cripple Hydreigon or heal if you decide to Roost, and if you don't, Hydreigon might faint. Entry hazard support is extremely important for this set, because it forces a huge amount of switches and helps Hydreigon wear down the opponent's team. Toxic Spikes deserve a special mention because they make Hydreigon's job significantly easier. Pokemon such as Mega Aggron and Roserade are great partners, because they can deal with Fairy-type Pokemon and set up entry hazards. Special sweepers, such as Celebi and Mega Sceptile, appreciate Hydreigon's ability to wear down walls that give them trouble. Draco Meteor, when boosted by Choice Specs, is one of the scariest special attacks in the tier, outdamaging others like Choice Specs Sylveon's Hyper Voice and Adaptability Choice Specs Porygon-Z's Tri-Attack. Dark Pulse is Hydreigon's most spammable move, as it has great neutral coverage and hits most of the tier for excellent damage. Flash Cannon hits Fairy-type switch-ins, OHKOing Whimsicott and 2HKOing Florges and Sylveon if entry hazards are down. Focus Blast allows Hydreigon to break through many common special walls in the tier, including Umbreon, Snorlax, and Porygon2. U-turn is an option over Focus Blast that allows Hydreigon to bluff a Choice Scarf set and maintain momentum early-game. Flamethrower is an option over Focus Blast as well, as it allows Hydreigon to OHKO Pokemon that resist its STAB moves such as Cobalion and Lucario without relying on the unreliable Focus Blast, but Hydreigon will miss the coverage against the aforementioned Special walls. Maximum Special Attack investment ensures Hydreigon hits as hard as possible, while maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Hydreigon to outpace key threats such as Entei, Krookodile, and Kyurem. Choice Specs is the item of choice for this set, providing maximum power to Hydreigon's attacks and even allowing it to beat most special walls. Choice Specs Hydreigon trades the ability to switch moves or heal itself for the power and consistency of its potent STAB attacks as well as the ability to surprise and break through Fairy-type Pokemon without relying on Iron Tail's shaky accuracy. This set is particularly proficient at breaking down walls in the early-game, allowing another sweeper to come in and clean house late-game. Against teams that lack a Fairy-type Pokemon, there are very few drawbacks to using Draco Meteor early-game, as the power of a Choice Specs-boosted Draco Meteor will even punch through moderately bulky switch-ins such as Cobalion. Dark Pulse is an easy move to spam mid-game, hitting most of the tier for good damage and even hitting hard enough to break down softer checks to Hydreigon such as Empoleon and Whimsicott without requiring prediction. Try to bring Hydreigon in on weak resisted moves or those that it is immune to; though the lack of Life Orb recoil aids its longevity overall, it lacks Roost to recover from strong attacks. This means that it cannot reliably check Pokemon such as Krookodile or Entei, so be sure to play around them carefully. Choice Specs Hydreigon fits best on bulkier offensive teams that most benefit from its ability to punch through walls. Pokemon such as Conkeldurr, Choice Scarf Mienshao, and Heracross all particularly appreciate Hydreigon's ability to lure and weaken Fairy-type Pokemon with Flash Cannon. Hydreigon always appreciates entry hazard support, as that allows it to secure several key OHKOs and 2HKOs it would otherwise miss, such as the guaranteed 2HKO on Blissey with Focus Blast or Calm Florges with Flash Cannon. Forretress is a particularly good partner, as it can set up Spikes against defensive Fairy-type Pokemon to ensure their KOs later in the game. As Choice Specs Hydreigon lacks longevity, it also appreciates VoltTurn support to get it in safely. The aforementioned Forretress helps here, as does Choice Scarf Infernape, which can also clean up late-game after Hydreigon softens up the opposing team's bulky Water-, Psychic-, and Fairy-type Pokemon. Mega Beedrill is another great fit, as Hydreigon threatens many of the bulky Steel-type Pokemon that would otherwise switch into Mega Beedrill's U-turn. A Choice Band set, with moves such as Outrage, Superpower, Iron Tail, and U-turn, can be used to lure in and beat special walls, but it is too reliant on surprise factor and prediction. Substitute and Roost can be used on the same set to utilize Hydreigon's bulk and typing to set up, but it struggles to break through dedicated special walls. Hydreigon has some less effective coverage moves it can use instead of the ones suggested in the sets, such as Surf, Focus Blast, and Earth Power. It can boost its Attack and Special Attack with Work Up, but that usually is not worth the effort, because the boost isn't significant and Hydreigon isn't particularly hard to revenge kill.
Hydreigon (SM competitive strategy): Hydreigon is a premier special attacker in UU thanks to its exceptional power and respectable Speed tier. Its spammable STAB combination, great coverage, and access to a few different utility options allow it to viably run a plethora of sets, including Choice Scarf, utility sets with Defog, and a stallbreaking set that utilizes Taunt. Hydreigon also has respectable bulk for an offensive Pokemon, with resistances that allow it to easily take on Pokemon like Chandelure, Mega Houndoom, and Celebi. Moreover, its access to Defog allows it to function as a reliable offensive entry hazard remover that can clear hazards when it forces switches. However, Hydreigon's typing also provides it with weaknesses to common types in Bug, Fighting, and especially Fairy, which can at times limit its opportunities to switch in. Hydreigon is also weak to priority attacks like Mach Punch and Vacuum Wave, which can allow the likes of Infernape and Lucario to pick it off with some prior damage. Lastly, Hydreigon suffers from the presence of faster threats despite its decent Speed tier, meaning that Pokemon such as Latias, Cobalion, and Mega Beedrill can easily outrun non-Choice Scarf sets and force Hydreigon out. Draco Meteor is Hydreigon's most powerful STAB attack and is useful for revenge killing faster Pokemon like Latias, Mega Aerodactyl, and Mega Manectric. Dark Pulse is a spammable STAB attack that, in addition to providing good overall coverage, reliably lets Hydreigon revenge kill Pokemon like Celebi, Doublade, and Gengar. U-turn safely pivots Hydreigon out of play while chipping common switch-ins such as Primarina, Mega Altaria, and Blissey. Fire Blast covers Steel-types that otherwise tank Hydreigon's attacks, with some examples being Cobalion, bulky Scizor, and Klefki. Defog is an option that can be run over Fire Blast in order to quickly remove entry hazards on forced switches. 252 EVs invested in Speed with a Timid nature give Hydreigon a respectable amount of Speed. A Choice Scarf further adds onto this, turning Hydreigon into a reliable revenge killer and allowing it to outrun the entire unboosted metagame. 252 EVs invested in Special Attack give Hydreigon's attacks a considerable amount of power, especially for a Choice Scarf user. Levitate is the only ability available, but it can be utilized to freely switch into the likes of Swampert and Choice-locked Krookodile. Hydreigon's decent defensive typing and bulk allow it to pivot into attacks it resists or is immune to, such as Scald or Psyshock from Mega Slowbro, to then begin forcing switches with its good Speed and power. It should also look to come in through the support of a pivot or as a foe is setting up in order to guarantee a reliable revenge kill. Due to the fact that many of its attacks can be punished when locked into, Hydreigon should carefully predict as it does its job. For example, if Mega Altaria or Togekiss is expected to switch in, pivoting out with U-turn would be optimal, while predicted Steel-type switch-ins such as Cobalion should be nailed with Fire Blast. Hydreigon should also be careful as it uses Draco Meteor due to the potential threat of a Pokemon like Scizor, Mimikyu, or Mega Altaria receiving an easy opportunity to punish Hydreigon and set up, Mimikyu in particular is given an opportunity to boost twice with its Disguise still intact. If running Defog, Hydreigon can use it to clear entry hazards as it forces switches. It can also attempt using the move in emergency situations, such as when entry hazards are on its side of the field and a Pokemon weak to them is desperate for their removal. If opposing offensive teams have been sufficiently weakened, Hydreigon can attempt to use its above average Speed and power to clean up with Dark Pulse. This set's ability to function as a reliable, powerful way to keep faster threats in check allows it to fit very well on offensive teams, in addition to fitting on really any other team archetype other than dedicated stall. Because of this set's lack of Steel-type coverage, Fairy-type checks are fairly important to pair with Hydreigon. Scizor, Mega Steelix, and Stakataka can check Fairy-types for Hydreigon while in return appreciating its ability to switch into Fire- and Ground-type attacks. Fighting-type checks like Doublade, Mega Altaria, and Latias can come in on or offensively pressure a few huge thorns in Hydreigon's side in Terrakion, Mienshao, and Infernape. Physical wallbreakers like Terrakion and Scizor are capable of breaking past the specially bulky Pokemon Hydreigon hates dealing with, thus improving its chances of a potential late-game sweep. Nidoking and Gengar are particularly helpful partners for this set, as they are able to threaten the Fairy-types that wall Hydreigon, Gengar also providing an immunity to the Fighting-type STAB moves that threaten Hydreigon. Through the use of Superpower or Taunt, Nidoking can also break past Blissey, which enables a late-game sweep for Hydreigon. Draco Meteor allows Hydreigon to OHKO threatening Pokemon like Nidoking, Crawdaunt, and Kyurem. Fire Blast can be used as an alternative over Draco Meteor to hit Steel-types like Scizor, Mega Aggron, Bisharp, and Cobalion for a significant amount of damage. Focus Blast should only be used alongside Fightinium Z and can break past Empoleon, which Draco Meteor and Fire Blast can't, while retaining valuable coverage on Steel- and Dark-types. Levitate strengthens Hydreigon's role as a Defog user by making it immune to Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Sticky Web. Dragonium Z turns Draco Meteor into a powerful nuke that lets Hydreigon beat many Pokemon that don't resist it without dropping Hydreigon's Special Attack, such as Hippowdon, Amoonguss, and Gligar. Dread Plate can be used to power up Dark Pulse, especially if the team already has a Z-Move user. Darkinium Z can be used to give Hydreigon a reliable nuke with good coverage overall that lets it muscle through Steel-types like Mega Aggron more easily. Leftovers is a good alternative on defensive teams that are in need of entry hazard control to help keep Hydreigon healthy throughout. Hydreigon should be pivoted into Pokemon that it can naturally beat due to its typing, such as Krookodile, Mew, and Tentacruel, and utilize these opportunities to remove entry hazards. If using a Z-Move, take care to save it for the appropriate moment. For example, some Stealth Rock users like Hippowdon and Gligar can stall out Hydreigon one-on-one if it has already used its Z-Move, whereas Devastating Drake allows Hydreigon to beat them with a bit of prior damage. Use Dark Pulse liberally throughout the match, as it has limited drawbacks , but be wary of potentially giving Terrakion or Cobalion an Attack boost on the switch. Be cautious of status from Pokemon that Hydreigon tends to pivot into, such as Rotom-H and Mega Slowbro, as a potential poison or paralysis will hinder Hydreigon's job of removing entry hazards. Due to this set's limited attacking moves, Fire Blast and Focus Blast should be used on predicted switches to Steel-types like Mega Aggron, Klefki, and Empoleon to allow Hydreigon to spam Dark Pulse or allow another teammate to potentially clean later on in the match. This set can bluff a Choice Scarf, primarily by spamming Dark Pulse, which can be used to Hydreigon's advantage to catch Pokemon like Krookodile and Empoleon with Dragonium Z or Fightinium Z. This set can be used on a variety of playstyles ranging from bulky offense to stall due to its incredible offensive and defensive utility, so it possesses a wide variety of team options. Fairy-types like Togekiss, Primarina, and Mega Altaria wall this set with ease. As a result, it's vital to have teammates that can pressure them. Some good examples include Cobalion, Rotom-H, and Amoonguss. Pokemon that appreciate entry hazard removal, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Rotom-H, and Moltres, make for good teammates, and these can also pressure Steel-types to make Hydreigon's job easier. Since common Fighting-type Pokemon like Terrakion, Infernape, and Cobalion can all outspeed Hydreigon and OHKO it with their STAB attacks, Gligar, Slowbro, and Nidoqueen are valuable teammates that can counter them as well as wear down Steel-types. Fighting-types possess excellent offensive synergy with Hydreigon thanks to their ability to pressure Steel- and Ground-types as well as break past specially bulky Pokemon. For example, Terrakion and Cobalion can heavily pressure Mega Altaria, Empoleon, and Blissey for Hydreigon, while Hydreigon can pressure physically defensive Pokemon like Slowbro and Hippowdon. Scizor and Mega Aerodactyl make for good teammates because they can utilize their ability as physical breakers to weaken special walls for Hydreigon. Moreover, both can trap Latias with Pursuit, which can use Hydreigon as setup fodder if Hydreigon has used or isn't running Dragonium Z. Hydreigon also fits well on stall builds due to its ability to switch in against troublesome stallbreakers like Chandelure, revenge kill Pokemon that can be difficult to check like Celebi and Mew, and provide reliable entry hazard removal. For this reason, partners like Blissey, Alomomola, and Pyukumuku make great partners with Hydreigon. Blissey can provide Heal Bell support to ease Hydreigon's vulnerability to Toxic while also checking some Fairy-types like Sylveon and Primarina for it. Taunt shuts down a large portion of specially defensive threats that can otherwise wall Hydreigon and attempt to cripple it, such as Blissey and Empoleon. Dark Pulse is a consistent STAB attack without drawbacks, hitting decently hard with the given investment. Roost provides Hydreigon with a reliable method of sustaining itself throughout a match, allowing it to consistently stallbreak. Draco Meteor is a powerful STAB attack that Hydreigon can use to muscle past offensive Pokemon like Nidoking and Mega Manectric. When Dragonium Z is activated, Draco Meteor becomes a powerful Devastating Drake that can be used to break a few defensive Pokemon without decreasing Hydreigon's Special Attack, such as Alomomola and Suicune after chip damage. Fire Blast is an option over Dark Pulse that can prove to be useful for weakening Steel-types like Cobalion and Scizor. However, it generally prevents Hydreigon from hitting a wider variety of foes due to Dark Pulse's better overall coverage. The given investment and nature maximize Hydreigon's power while giving it as much Speed as possible. Levitate is especially useful on this set, as Hydreigon can easily utilize it to shut down defensive Ground-types like Swampert and Hippowdon. Life Orb is the preferred item due to the respectable power it will put behind Hydreigon's attacks. Dragonium Z is also an option, however, for granting access to Devastating Drake in addition to minimizing Knock Off damage. It should only be used if another teammate is not holding a Z-Crystal, however. Dread Plate is another option to boost the power of Dark Pulse without damaging Hydreigon with recoil. Hydreigon looks to break past opposing teams, using Taunt whenever it needs to shut down a wall like Alomomola or Quagsire. Roost should be used whenever Hydreigon has been worn down a fair amount so as not to leave it open to a revenge killer. Lastly, Hydreigon should carefully count the turns in which the opposing Pokemon is crippled with Taunt, as if it doesn't continuously hit defensive foes with the move, they will be able to easily recover their health and stall it out. This set fits well on bulky offensive teams that appreciate a Pokemon capable of crippling and wearing down defensive threats. Entry hazard support is important to the success of this set, as Hydreigon forces many switches and will be able to rack up residual damage on foes in doing so. Toxic Spikes from Nihilego, Tentacruel, or Nidoqueen is particularly helpful due to its ability to further wear defensive foes down. Hydreigon's inability to break past the likes of Mega Altaria, Sylveon, and Florges with this set makes checks to them like Scizor and Lucario good options as teammates. Fighting-types can also be useful if Hydreigon doesn't wish to use up a fair amount of PP breaking past Blissey. Cobalion and Terrakion are both notable examples due to their ability to also set Stealth Rock for Hydreigon if need be. Special sweepers that can have trouble breaking past bulky walls appreciate Hydreigon's ability to significantly chip them down with this set. Examples include Agility Moltres, Suicune, and Volcanion. All of which also appreciate Hydreigon being able to prevent the setting of entry hazards like Stealth Rock or Toxic Spikes with Taunt. Draco Meteor is Hydreigon's strongest available STAB attack and has very limited switch-ins. Dark Pulse heavily damages Psychic- and Ghost-types like Latias and Doublade while also hitting the majority of the tier for neutral damage. Roost provides Hydreigon with a way of reliably recovering its health. Flash Cannon is able to 2HKO Togekiss and Sylveon, which otherwise wall Hydreigon, after Stealth Rock damage. Fire Blast is an option over Roost, which covers Steel-types that may attempt coming in on Draco Meteor, such as Klefki. Superpower is also an option that can be used to lure in Blissey and KO it, though it also forces Hydreigon to decrease its defenses so as not to run an Attack-reducing nature. Maximum investment in Special Attack gives Hydreigon a respectable amount of power. Maximum investment in Speed with a Timid nature makes Hydreigon as fast as possible, giving it key Speed advantages over threats like Rotom-H and non-Choice Scarf Krookodile. Life Orb gives Hydreigon the freedom of switching between its moves while putting more power behind its attacks. Levitate provides an immunity to Ground-type attacks that can be used to exploit Pokemon like Swampert. In order to maximize effectiveness, Hydreigon should look to come in on weak hits like Scald from Alomomola. It can then freely fire off its powerful attacks. However, prediction is required in order to 2HKO Pokemon like Sylveon on the switch with super effective coverage. It is important to be wary of Hydreigon's HP throughout the match, as Life Orb damage will wear it down rather quickly. When it has been significantly worn down, it should thus look to restore its HP with Roost. Lastly, Hydreigon should try spamming its STAB attacks as frequently as possible, which means that it is best that its common checks are removed or weakened before it is utilized in later stages of the game. Entry hazards from Pokemon like Cobalion, Hippowdon, and Mega Aggron are useful for increasing Hydreigon's overall damage output. Physical wallbreakers are ideal for pairing with this set due to their ability to take on the majority of special walls for Hydreigon. Swords Dance Doublade is a notable example thanks to its ability to take care of both Blissey and Fairy-types. Other Fairy-type checks like Nidoqueen and Scizor can take care of big threats to Hydreigon in Sylveon and Mega Altaria. Fast threats like Mega Aerodactyl, Mega manectric, and Gengar can take on revenge killers for Hydreigon, while the likes of Suicune and Mega Aggron can easily switch into the priority attacks that threaten it. Sweepers such as Scizor, Infernape, and Celebi enjoy Hydreigon's ability to weaken opposing teams for them to easily clean up late-game. Draco Meteor is a devastatingly powerful STAB attack with Choice Specs equipped, OHKOing the majority of offensive Pokemon while even cutting into defensive Pokemon like Hippowdon and Alolan Muk. Dark Pulse is a spammable STAB attack with no drawbacks and good neutral coverage. Flash Cannon can be used to catch Fairy-types on the switch, 2HKOing even Sylveon and Florges after entry hazard damage. Fire Blast rounds off Hydreigon's coverage, giving it a way to hit Steel-types like Klefki, Cobalion, and Mega Aggron for super effective damage. U-turn can be used over either Flash Cannon or Fire Blast for to allowing Hydreigon to pivot out of predicted switch-ins such as Blissey and Primarina. It can also potentially allow Hydreigon to bluff a Choice Scarf set. Full investment in Special Attack with Choice Specs equipped maximizes Hydreigon's damage output. Full Speed investment with a Timid nature gives Hydreigon as much Speed as possible, notably allowing it to outrun threats such as Rotom-H and non-Choice Scarf Krookodile. Levitate grants Hydreigon opportunities to switch in against passive Ground-types like Hippowdon and Swampert. This set looks to wallbreak throughout the early and middle stages of a match, meaning that Hydreigon should look to switch in on Pokemon like Volcanion, Mew, and Chandelure in order to get off a powerful hit. If it cannot find an opportunity to switch in, it should seek support from a pivot or come in after a teammate has fainted. Due to Choice Specs locking Hydreigon into one move, it should be wary of switch-ins and look to either pivot out or nail them with super effective coverage. For example, if a Fairy-type like Sylveon or Togekiss is expected to switch in, Hydreigon should look to use Flash Cannon to hit them super effectively, while it should try pivoting out with U-turn against predicted switch-ins from specially bulky Pokemon like Blissey and the rare Umbreon. Draco Meteor should be used liberally once reliable switch-ins are weakened due to its immense power, otherwise Pokemon like Mimikyu can take advantage of this and use Hydreigon as a free setup opportunity. Dark Pulse can also be spammed freely throughout later portions of the game due to its good neutral coverage and flinch chance. One thing to keep in mind is that this set is prone to being worn down, which means that entry hazard damage and status conditions should be avoided if possible. Powerful physical attackers appreciate Hydreigon's ability to break past physical walls while in return taking care of specially bulky Pokemon. Cobalion is an especially notably example, due to its ability to take on both Blissey and Fairy-types. Other Fairy-type checks, such as Nidoqueen, Scizor, and Mega Aggron, are capable of offensively pressuring the likes of Sylveon and Primarina for Hydreigon. Fighting-type checks like Gligar and Latias can apply pressure to foes like Infernape, Cobalion, and Lucario. Late-game cleaners such as Mega Sharpedo, Scizor, and Gengar are appreciative of Hydreigon's ability to weaken opposing teams for them to more easily break through. VoltTurn support from Pokemon like Mega Beedrill, Mega Manectric, and Scizor can safely bring Hydreigon into play while also chipping foes for it to more easily muscle past. Lastly, clerics such as Sylveon and Togekiss can prove useful to Hydreigon on bulky offense teams due to its lack of recovery and vulnerability to status. Belch + Poisonium Z is a compelling option for luring in and heavily damaging the majority of defensive Fairy-types, notably OHKOing the likes of Primarina. However, its main problem is its opportunity cost and the general waste of a moveslot once Acid Downpour has been used. While weaker, Steelium Z with Flash Cannon can be run instead for its usability after the Z-Move has been used for its ability to OHKO Mega Aerodactyl and other Rock-types. Earth Power can be used on some sets for its good general coverage against most of the metagame, including Stakataka, Alolan Muk, and Klefki. Unfortunately, all of its targets are already hit quite hard by other coverage moves, and it's a rather poor move for Hydreigon to be locked into.
Hydreigon (SS competitive strategy): Hydreigon is a devastatingly powerful wallbreaker in UU due to its incredible Special Attack, great movepool, and excellent STAB combination. Its Choice Specs set has no reliable switch-ins apart from Primarina and Chansey, ripping apart common defensive staples like Amoonguss, Scizor, and Hippowdon. Hydreigon also can utilize a Choice Scarf set to revenge kill setup sweepers and fast threats, like Gyarados, Zygarde-10%, and Azelf, while also having a fast U-turn to escape unfavorable matchups and potentially Defog to compress entry hazard removal. Hydreigon's decent defensive typing alongside recovery in Roost lets it naturally check threats like Slowking, Rotom-W, and Chandelure. However, Choice Specs Hydreigon has an exploitable Speed tier, falling short of staples like Salamence, Thundurus-T, Keldeo, and Cobalion, which allows it to be revenge killed rather easily. On the other hand, the Choice Scarf set lacks the outright power to get past Hippowdon, Mandibuzz, and Celesteela, and it also can get heavily punished for locking into any move, with more offensive teams outright using it as setup bait. The presence of Fairy-types that are neutral to Flash Cannon like Primarina and Azumarill means Hydreigon can struggle to click a nuclear Draco Meteor when they're on the enemy team. Moreover, it suffers from four-moveslot syndrome, as it has to choose between Flamethrower to cook Celesteela, Cobalion, and bulky Scizor or Flash Cannon to keep the aforementioned Fairy-types and Togekiss from blanking it. Hydreigon's dual STAB combination hits most of the tier for massive damage, wiping out the likes of Nihilego, Slowking, Tangrowth, and Moltres. Flamethrower OHKOes Scizor and Cobalion and cleanly 2HKOes Celesteela and Assault Vest Tangrowth. Fire Blast is another option for more power, but Flamethrower gets the same KOs as Fire Blast and has better accuracy. Alternatively, Flash Cannon prevents Primarina and Azumarill from walling Hydreigon while also hitting Togekiss super effectively. Roost helps offset passive damage from Stealth Rock and sand while also letting Hydreigon switch into Volt Switch from Rotom-H and Rotom-W, allowing it to maintain defensive utility while being a powerful wallbreaker. Additionally, it gives Hydreigon the option to switch into Knock Off and still be a dangerous threat. U-turn can be used to evade unfavorable matchups against the likes of Primarina and Chansey. Sleep Talk is an option to absorb Spore from Amoonguss for its team and still function as a wallbreaker, though it can be rather inconsistent. Hydro Pump can nail Hippowdon, Nihilego, and Excadrill for heavy damage while being a good midground option against Scizor and Togekiss, but it is harder to fit compared to other options. Maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Hydreigon to outspeed and KO threats like Moltres, Excadrill, and Tentacruel. Hydreigon best fits on offensive teams that enjoy having a powerful wallbreaker that can overwhelm Slowking and Hippowdon, and ideally give it ample opportunities to fire off powerful attacks in return. Tentacruel is a key partner for Hydreigon, being able to reliably switch into Primarina and remove Stealth Rock, which wears Hydreigon down. It also blanks Celesteela and can use Knock Off to remove Eviolite from Chansey. Bulky Grass-types like Amoonguss and Assault Vest Tangrowth also check Azumarill and Primarina for Hydreigon. Primarina and the aforementioned Amoonguss can check dangerous Fighting-types like Keldeo and Conkeldurr. Pivots like Rotom-W, Thundurus-T, and Moltres can safely bring in Hydreigon against their answers like Amoonguss and Rotom-H. The former two also can threaten Primarina and Azumarill. Furthermore, slow pivots like Slowking and Chansey check revenge killers to Hydreigon like Keldeo, Salamence, and Azelf and get Hydreigon in especially safely against Skarmory and Tangrowth. Crobat and Choice Scarf Diggersby are also excellent partners for Hydreigon, revenge killing faster threats like Keldeo and Azelf. Both lure in Skarmory for Hydreigon; the former also compresses entry hazard removal and answers Conkeldurr, while the latter can bring Hydreigon in on Amoonguss and Tangrowth and threaten specially defensive walls like Chansey and Primarina. Entry hazard support from allies like Skarmory, Nihilego, and Hippowdon helps Hydreigon break past the likes of opposing Nihilego and Celesteela more easily, with even Chansey being overwhelmed with Spikes on the field. Nihilego also can use Knock Off to remove items from Celesteela and Chansey. Scizor and Cobalion are able to pressure specially defensive walls like Chansey, Nihilego, and Umbreon for Hydreigon. Late-game cleaners like the aforementioned Scizor, Zygarde-10%, and Gyarados can finish off weakened walls like Celesteela and Nihilego after Hydreigon breaks holes in the enemy team. When equipped with a Choice Scarf, Hydreigon can revenge kill faster threats like Azelf, Zygarde-10%, and Keldeo, as well as setup sweepers like Gyarados, with its STAB moves. U-turn lets Hydreigon pivot away from Chansey and Primarina and bring in a teammate to handle them. Fire Blast OHKOes Steel-types like Scizor, Cobalion, and Excadrill and 2HKOes Assault Vest Tangrowth. Alternatively, Defog allows Hydreigon to compress emergency entry hazard removal. Roost lets Hydreigon utilize its typing to switch into Chandelure, Rotom-W, and Slowking and heal as it forces them out, though both it and Defog are troublesome to lock into. Roost is also is useful if Hydreigon chooses to take a Knock Off in a game where Choice Scarf is no longer needed. Earth Power can be used to hit Nihilego hard if the team needs the insurance, but it fails to OHKO without chip damage and lacks any other meaningful targets that a STAB move or Fire Blast cannot cover. A Modest nature can be used for more power at the cost of not outspeeding +1 Excadrill, +2 Cloyster, and Choice Scarf Darmanitan. Hydreigon best fits on bulky offense teams that appreciate the role compression of revenge killer, Ghost-resistant piece, and potential entry hazard remover in one Pokemon. Tentacruel, Tangrowth, and Amoonguss check Fairy-types like Primarina and Azumarill for Hydreigon; Tentacruel also can hinder Celesteela with Knock Off, and Liquid Ooze keeps it from clicking Leech Seed. Entry hazard removal from the aforementioned Tentacruel and Excadrill is needed to offset the chip damage from Stealth Rock that Hydreigon accumulates from frequent pivoting. They also free up the Defog moveslot on Hydreigon for another option like Roost. Entry hazard support from Hippowdon, Nidoqueen, and Excadrill can wear down threats like Gyarados, Nihilego, Keldeo, and Assault Vest Tangrowth for Hydreigon to get past. Nidoqueen also pressures Fairy-types like Hatterene and Primarina. Bulky Swords Dance Scizor beats checks to Hydreigon like Nihilego and Chansey and can clean late-game with certain faster threats like Thundurus-T and Salamence removed. Wallbreakers like Mamoswine and Keldeo appreciate Hydreigon revenge killing threats to them such as Starmie, Azelf, and Zygarde-10%. In return, they pressure Chansey and Nihilego and soften up Celesteela. Pivots like Rotom-H, Rotom-W, and Thundurus-T form VoltTurn cores with Hydreigon, with each wearing down each other's checks. Hydreigon can use an offensive Roost set on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate its defensive utility in addition to powerful wallbreaking. Taunt is common on this set to block entry hazards from the likes of Hippowdon and Chansey as well as to disrupt stall teams by shutting down threats like Umbreon and Chansey. Nasty Plot can be used to turn Hydreigon into a ferocious wallbreaker that can get many setup chances alongside Roost. With a boost, it can easily break past Pokemon that would normally switch into it like Celesteela, Mandibuzz, and Hippowdon using its STAB moves. However, this set thuds into Primarina and gets revenge killed easily. Shock Wave on the Choice Specs set is an option to keep Primarina from walling Hydreigon, cleanly 2HKOing most variants. Belch + Salac Berry + Nasty Plot + Substitute can be used to boost Hydreigon's Speed and OHKO Primarina and Azumarill after a Nasty Plot with Belch, but this set is unreliable because it will often not activate the Berry, rendering Belch useless. Thunder Wave can cripple switch-ins like Nihilego and Cobalion on more utility-based sets.
Koraidon (SV competitive strategy): Koraidon is arguably the most impactful Pokemon in Ubers and is used on the majority of teams. Extremely high Speed and Attack boosted by Orichalcum Pulse and the high Base Power of its moves make Koraidon a nightmare to switch into. Scale Shot combined with Loaded Dice gives Koraidon the tools to break past would-be checks such as Ho-Oh without much trouble, leaving very few reliable checks to it; in fact, Koraidon's incredible breaking power makes dedicated checks such as Arceus-Fairy viable by its sheer presence alone. Despite Scale Shot Koraidon's attention-grabbing power, Koraidon's most used set is in fact Choice Scarf, which provides massive amounts of utility. It's able to revenge kill nearly the entire tier, clean up weakened teams with ease, provide momentum with U-turn, and serve as a pseudo-check to powerful wallbreakers like Extreme Killer Arceus, Kyogre, and Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM. Koraidon is somewhat held back by its reliance on moves like Flare Blitz, which has a lot of recoil, and Scale Shot, which can fail to achieve certain KOs should it miss or not get the right amount of hits. Furthermore, despite the lack of proper checks to Koraidon, it is often pivoted into by Pokemon such as Zacian-C, Flutter Mane, Kyogre, and Landorus-T, which can either absorb a Dragon-type move and KO back or cripple Koraidon through Drizzle or Intimidate. As such, Koraidon requires proper prediction to realize its full potential. Thanks to its high power and Speed, Choice Scarf Koraidon is by far the most common revenge killer in Ubers. Low Kick sports 120 Base Power against the vast majority of Ubers, and its lack of stat drops can let Koraidon clean up weakened teams much more easily than Close Combat. Despite this, Close Combat is notably useful against stall teams, as it hits Alomomola much harder as well as some other targets like Terastallized Ho-Oh and Gliscor. Outrage is an extremely strong Dragon-type STAB move that always 2HKOes defensive Ho-Oh. Dragon Claw, while weaker, avoids the situation of Koraidon being taken advantage of while locked into Outrage. Flare Blitz is very powerful under the sun and is Koraidon's best option to hit Fairy-types. Tera Ghost stops Extreme Killer Arceus in its tracks, while Tera Fire boosts Flare Blitz even further and stops Fairy-type attacks or a boosted Behemoth Blade from devastating Koraidon. Choice Scarf Koraidon is a very common sight on balance and bulky offense teams. The utility Koraidon provides through U-turn bringing in wallbreakers like Kyogre, Zacian-C, offensive Ho-Oh, and Eternatus is unmatched in the tier. Its high Speed backed by Choice Scarf lets Koraidon function as a check to Zacian-C, Dragon Dance Arceus-Ground, and Necrozma-DM, and it is one of the best emergency options against opposing Scale Shot or Flame Charge Koraidon. The sun it provides makes it a great pivot on Kyogreas well. However, care should be taken to not overly rely on Choice Scarf Koraidon to deal with certain threats. For example, Sticky Web can be a huge thorn in Koraidon's side, letting common wallbreakers like Zacian-C and Dragon Dance Arceus-Ground and Kyurem-B have no problem outspeeding Koraidon. As such, having a strong defensive core featuring Pokemon like Ho-Oh, Landorus-T, Eternatus, Ting-Lu, Arceus-Fairy, and Arceus-Water can be critical for Koraidon's success. Priority users like Extreme Killer Arceus, Giratina-O, and Kingambit can also take some pressure off Koraidon by providing additional revenge killers. Scale Shot will always hit four to five times when backed by Loaded Dice, which gives Koraidon a powerful Dragon-type STAB that also allows it to outspeed nearly the entire tier after a single use. Scale Shot's sheer power gives Koraidon a way to muscle past Unaware Pokemon like Skeledirge and Dondozo, and at +2, it will OHKO defensive Ho-Oh provided it hits five times. Close Combat's consistent 120 base power is stronger than Low Kick against Ho-Oh, Gliscor, and Alomomola, but Low Kick is usually used to avoid Close Combat's stat drops, and it has the same base power against the majority of the tier. Flare Blitz rounds out Koraidon's coverage and is extremely powerful under the sun. When backed by Tera Fire, Flare Blitz is able to OHKO defensive Arceus-Fairy at +2 and Landorus-T at +1. Tera Fire also provides some nifty resistances to Arceus-Fairy's Judgment and Zacian-C's Behemoth Blade and protects Koraidon from being burned by Sacred Fire or Will-O-Wisp. Tera Ghost is an option for its immunity to Arceus's Extreme Speed, which can be critical for Koraidon to maintain a sweep after multiple Defense drops. Scale Shot Koraidon is a premiere offensive threat, as it is both a powerful wallbreaker and sweeper. As such, Scale Shot Koraidon is one of, if not the most, well-prepped for Pokemon in the entire Ubers tier. Many teams have multiple methods of counter-play against it, from traditional checks like Arceus-Fairy, Arceus-Water, and Skeledirge, to abilities that can weaken it like Kyogre's Drizzle and Landorus-T's Intimidate, to priority options like Arceus's Extreme Speed, as well as the commonality of Tera Fairy on Pokemon like Ho-Oh and Kyogre. Wallbreaking with Koraidon requires recognizing when the opponent will Terastallize and making opportunistic switches. Considering this, it's wise to partner Koraidon with additional physically offensive Pokemon. Zacian-C is a great option for this, as it puts pressure on common defensive Pokemon like Landorus-T and Ho-Oh while being a great answer to Extreme Killer Arceus. Extreme Killer Arceus itself is a good partner that can clean up teams weakened by Koraidon's onslaught. Dragon Dance Arceus-Ground is also notable for applying pressure to Kyogre and Arceus-Water, both of which are common ways to deal with Koraidon. Tera Steel is possible on Choice Scarf sets, as it helps against Extreme Killer Arceus while also providing a useful Dragon-type resistance for opposing Koraidon and Eternatus. It also pairs nicely with Iron Head should you want to target Arceus-Fairy during teambuilding. Flame Charge may be run on Scale Shot sets. In particular, Flame Charge helps against Zacian-C and Flutter Mane that may try to switch in on Scale Shot, which eases prediction greatly. However, this comes at the cost of the sheer power of Flare Blitz, and this forces Koraidon to Terastallize more often to raise Flame Charge's Base Power. Taunt also has potential on Scale Shot sets, as it prevents moves like Ho-Oh's Whirlwind and Gliscor's Toxic, but Low Kick and Substitute generally have more utility. Choice Band gives Koraidon absurd breaking power from the get-go; however, Choice Band's move limitation greatly hinders Koraidon's sweeping ability, not to mention that Scale Shot Koraidon already packs enough power. Temper Flare is generally outclassed by Flare Blitz.
Zoroark (BW competitive strategy): Zoroark is a niche wallbreaker, with Illusion letting it make the most of its offensive stats, which would otherwise pale in comparison to other wallbreakers. It can function as an effective lure on bulky offense teams, getting past foes like Cofagrigus and Ferroseed under the guise of sweepers like Heracross or passive Pokemon like Qwilfish. Zoroark's Speed tier allows it to check Pokemon like Victini, Roserade, and Zapdos, but it can only tie with Mienshao and is very susceptible to opposing Choice Scarf users. Zoroark is generally rather easy to revenge kill once its cover is blown due to its frailty and lacking resistances. Flamethrower gives Zoroark means of hitting Bronzong and common Dark-resistant foes like Heracross and Cobalion. Focus Blast allows Zoroark to hit foes like Scrafty, Empoleon, and Snorlax harder. Also, Trick can cripple bulkier Pokemon such as Umbreon. Fighting-types like Choice Scarf Mienshao and Heracross appreciate Zoroark crippling foes like Gligar with Trick or muscling past Pokemon like Cofagrigus. In return, they're able to check Pokemon like Umbreon and Cobalion. Rapid Spin from Blastoise is also beneficial to keep Illusion's effectiveness intact. If opponents see a Pokemon take Stealth Rock damage that doesn't match up with its typing, they can know the Pokemon is actually Zoroark. Setup sweepers such as Cobalion and Raikou also appreciate Zoroark luring in Pokemon like the aforementioned Cofagrigus and Rhyperior, respectively.
Zoroark (XY competitive strategy): Zoroark has a decent signature ability in Illusion, which allows it to play mind games with opponents, though Zoroark's frailty limits its usability. Zoroark also has great mixed offenses and a decent movepool with moves such as Swords Dance and Nasty Plot. Furthermore, Zoroark has a good Speed tier which allows it to outspeed and beat Pokemon such as Chandelure. However, Zoroark is quite frail, meaning it can easily be revenge killed, and it is also more or less walled and beaten by common Fighting- and Fairy-types. Furthermore, Zoroark faces competition from Hydreigon and Mega Houndoom as a mixed attacker, as they have better movepools and superior offenses, though Zoroark has higher Speed and access to Illusion. As a physical attacker, Zoroark faces competition from Mega Absol, which has better coverage and power; however, Zoroark's niche lies in Illusion and the fact that it does not take up a Mega slot. Dark Pulse is Zoroark's preferred STAB move because of its 100% accuracy and chance to make its target flinch, and unlike Night Daze, it doesn't reveal Zoroark's identity. However, Night Daze has more power and a good chance to drop its target's accuracy, though it ruins Zoroark's disguise. Focus Blast has great power and excellent coverage, allowing Zoroark to hit opposing Dark-types, which resist its STAB moves. Trick cripples defensive Pokemon, leaving them locked into a single move. Grass Knot hits heavy Pokemon quite hard, most notably Mega Swampert, Suicune, and Milotic. Sludge Bomb 2HKOes Florges, which can switch into all of Zoroark's other moves with little trouble. Flamethrower has decent power and coverage and hits Chesnaught, Forretress, and Roserade harder than Zoroark's other moves. Illusion allows Zoroark to disguise itself as a teammate and trick opponents. Choice Specs gives an additional boost to Zoroark's Special Attack but locks it into a single move. Maximum Special Attack investment lets Zoroark hit as hard as possible. Maximum Speed investment and a Timid nature allow Zoroark to outspeed base 100s such as Shaymin and Speed tie with base 105s such as Mienshao. When selecting the team order, try to select a Pokemon that has good type synergy with Zoroark in the last slot; this way, the opponent can be tricked into hitting Zoroark with a not very effective attack, giving Zoroark a free turn to attack the foe. This Zoroark can be used as a lead to cripple entry hazard setters with Trick. Trick can also be used to cripple a defensive Pokemon by locking it into a single move; for example, if the foe goes for Toxic, it will be locked into the move and forced to switch. Bringing Zoroark in with a slow U-turn or Volt Switch is good, as it is too frail to switch in on its own and does not want its Illusion to be broken immediately. Pokemon that beat the Fighting-types that threaten Zoroark, such as Florges and Crobat, make for good partners. Pokemon that can beat Fairy-types for Zoroark, such as Nidoqueen, Crobat, and Mega Aggron, are also good choices. Pokemon that share good typing synergy and moves with Zoroark, such as Infernape, are useful to take advantage of Illusion. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Empoleon and Nidoqueen is appreciated in order to KO foes with more ease. Pokemon that can bring in Zoroark with a slow Volt Switch or U-turn, such as Forretress, are good teammates as well. Swords Dance is Zoroark's boosting move, allowing it to boost its Attack to an insane level. Sucker Punch is a STAB attack with priority, letting Zoroark hit foes that would normally outspeed it. Knock Off is usually more powerful than Sucker Punch and also has the utility of removing the foe's item. Low Kick has great coverage and allows Zoroark to hit Mega Aggron, Empoleon, and Snorlax for super effective damage. Return has decent Base Power and lets Zoroark hit Fairy-types neutrally, which it can't do without it. Illusion allows Zoroark to disguise itself as the last teammate in your party and trick opponents. Focus Sash ensures Zoroark can get a Swords Dance when at full health and allows it to play riskier by being able to hit with at least two attacks. Life Orb is a secondary option for an item for more raw power. Maximized Attack EVs are backed by an Adamant nature to ensure that Zoroark can KO Shaymin after Stealth Rock at +2 and have a chance to OHKO Krookodile at +1 . A Jolly nature can be used instead to outspeed maximum Speed Krookodile and Hydreigon. Use Sucker Punch to pick off weakened Pokemon. Use Swords Dance on a forced switch or when you predict that the foe will use a not very effective attack because of Illusion. If you're unsure what to do, use Knock Off; it does good damage and most Pokemon do not appreciate having their item removed. Bringing Zoroark in with a slow Volt Switch or U-turn is a good idea; this way, Illusion and Focus Sash will stay intact. Pokemon that can reliably take care of Fairy-types that wall this set, such as Nidoqueen, Mega Aggron, and Tentacruel, make for good partners. Physical wallbreakers such as Darmanitan, Krookodile, and Haxorus are good choices because of their ability to break through physical walls. Zoroark itself is a good wallbreaker for these teammates. Pokemon that can beat Fighting-types, such as Florges and Crobat, are good partners; the former can also provide Wish support to keep Zoroark healthy. Pokemon that have good type synergy with Zoroark, such as Weezing, are excellent partners too because they let Zoroark trick opponents with Illusion better. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Nidoqueen, Forretress, and Roserade is appreciated to give Zoroark an easier time KOing foes. Entry hazard removal from Pokemon such as Crobat and Mega Blastoise is good for Zoroark too, as hazards will break its Focus Sash. Slow momentum gainers such as Forretress and Umbreon are great teammates, as Zoroark will not like to switch in on its own. Nasty Plot boosts Zoroark's Special Attack to massive levels. Dark Pulse is a STAB attack and is preferred over Night Daze for its accuracy, as the power difference doesn't matter here. Focus Blast has great Base Power and excellent coverage alongside Dark Pulse. Sludge Bomb hits Florges for super-effective damage, having a chance to OHKO it with Stealth Rock up when boosted. Flamethrower can be used in the last slot to hit Chesnaught and other Grass-types harder, as well as several other Pokemon. Grass Knot can hit heavy targets such as Mega Swampert and Rhyperior quite hard and thus is an option too. Illusion allows Zoroark to trick opponents by disguising itself as a teammate. Life Orb gives a power boost to each of Zoroark's damaging attacks, making them even more powerful. Maximized Special Attack increases Zoroark's damage output, and the Speed EVs along with a Timid nature allow Zoroark to outspeed maximum Speed base 100s such as Entei and Flygon. Select Pokemon that have good synergy with Zoroark, such as Weezing or Lucario, in the last slot to let Zoroark benefit the most from its Illusion ability. This Zoroark can be used as a lead to set up on entry hazard setters. Nasty Plot should be used on a forced switch, as it will allow Zoroark to sweep. Zoroark should be brought in with a slow momentum-gaining move such as U-turn or Volt Switch, as it doesn't like taking an attack while switching in. Pokemon that have good synergy with Zoroark allow for optimal use of Illusion, so they're good teammates. Weezing stands out, as it has perfect typing synergy with Zoroark. Zoroark is walled by Fairy-types, so Pokemon that beat them, such as Toxicroak and Mega Aggron, are excellent choices as well. Fighting-types such as Mienshao threaten Zoroark, so checks or counters to them, such as Florges and Espeon, are nice teammates. Special attackers that can't set up on their own, such as Raikou and Shaymin, can take advantage of Zoroark breaking through special walls, so they are generally good partners. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Nidoqueen and Forretress is excellent to give Zoroark an easier time KOing foes. Entry hazards on your side limit Zoroark's longevity every time it switches in, so a teammate that can remove them, such as Flygon, is good. Slow momentum gainers such as Forretress are good, as they can provide a safe switch in for Zoroark. Sucker Punch is a priority move that packs good power and is boosted by STAB. Knock Off is a powerful attack that has the utility of removing foes' items. Low Kick heavily damages Pokemon such as Blissey, Snorlax, and Hydreigon, which would otherwise wall this set. Sludge Bomb hits Florges for super-effective damage. Flamethrower hits several Pokemon for super effective damage. Grass Knot hits heavy Pokemon very hard and has decent coverage, but it can be very weak against lightweight foes. Illusion can help Zoroark trick opposing players by disguising it as one of its teammates. Life Orb gives a boost to all of Zoroark's damaging attacks. The given spread boosts Zoroark's offenses and allows it to OHKO Mega Swampert and Rhyperior with Grass Knot. The Speed EVs are furthered by a Naive nature, allowing Zoroark to outrun maximum Speed base 100s such as Shaymin and Entei. This Zoroark can be used as a revenge killer because of its good offensive stats and Speed. It's useful to disguise Zoroark as a teammate with the same move choices and preferably good typing to optimize Illusion's use. Use Knock Off if unsure what the foe's going to do, because most Pokemon do not appreciate having their item removed. Zoroark can also come in to pick off a weakened Pokemon with Sucker Punch after a teammate has fainted. Pokemon with the same movepool options or good typing synergy are good partners for Zoroark. Pokemon that beat the Fighting-types that can easily beat Zoroark, such as Noivern and Florges, are nice teammates. Fairy-types threaten this set, so Poison- or Steel-types such as Mega Aggron, Toxicroak, and Escavalier are good choices. Entry hazard removal is useful for keeping Zoroark healthy, as it cannot recover the damage taken. Slow momentum gainers such as Forretress and Vaporeon can grant Zoroark a safe switch in, which is good. U-turn can be used to let Zoroark gain momentum and switch out of its checks and counters, but it forces Zoroark to miss out on a coverage move. Taunt can cripple defensive Pokemon but is better used by bulkier Pokemon such as Crobat. An anti-lead set with Focus Sash and moves such as Counter can be used, but it is waste of Zoroark's excellent offensive stats. Pursuit can be used to trap opposing Ghost- and Psychic-types, but Zoroark lacks room for it and it isn't really powerful. Extrasensory is an option to hit Fighting-types for super effective damage, but it lacks power and good coverage. Lastly, Memento can be an option to give setup sweepers an easier time setting up, but this wastes Zoroark's offensive potential.
Zoroark (SM competitive strategy): Despite having a unique signature ability in Illusion, Zoroark is an unviable choice in the metagame. It has poor bulk and faces absurd amounts of competition from the likes of Hydreigon and Mega Houndoom, both of which sport dual typings and are stronger Dark-type attackers right off the bat. In addition, Zoroark sits at an unfortunate Speed tier where prevalent Pokemon like Cobalion, Terrakion, and Latias can easily revenge kill it. Illusion is also one-time use and can be scouted for through entry hazards, making Zoroark's only defining trait far less useful in practice. Zoroark's best set would consist of Nasty Plot and Fightinium Z, allowing it to punch through Pokemon like Empoleon and Blissey after a boost. Mega Houndoom can pull this off more feasibly, however, due to its higher Speed tier, access to Fire-type STAB, and higher bulk, thus giving it more frequent setup opportunities. Other users of Nasty Plot such as Infernape and Togekiss are far more practical, as they possess a stronger STAB combination and useful defensive utility, respectively.
Zoroark (SS competitive strategy): Zoroark carves a small niche in RU as a pivot that can create mindgames with Pokemon that would seem to force it out, such as Milotic and Togekiss. Thanks to its ability Illusion, Zoroark can disguise itself as their checks, and it can hinder Pokemon with Knock Off and pivot into wallbreakers safely with U-turn. However, Zoroark's defensive profile is extremely lacking and it doesn't naturally scare many Pokemon out, making it reliant on Illusion to perform its role. Illusion can be difficult to get use out of consistently, since any amount of damage on Zoroark or the Pokemon it copies can ruin the mind game. Flamethrower can hit Steel-types like Steelix for good damage, while Low Kick can be used to hit others like Registeel harder. 36 Special Attack EVs allow Zoroark to 2HKO Togekiss with Sludge Bomb after Stealth Rock. Sucker Punch allows Zoroark to revenge kill with priority, but it is hard to fit. Sweepers, such as Flygon and Cloyster, enjoy Zoroark being around to hinder their checks with Knock Off and get them free setup opportunities with U-turn. Wallbreakers that need pivoting support to come in safely, such as Toxtricity, appreciate Zoroark bringing them in and playing mind games against their checks with Illusion to wallbreak more easily. Partners that can set Spikes, such as Klefki, help compensate for Zoroark's middling offensive stats. Heavy-Duty Boots users like Xurkitree and Heracross that can scare out Zoroark's checks, such as Togekiss and Incineroar, help Zoroark take full advantage of its Illusion by not taking entry hazard damage, which ruins the mind game.
Zoroark (SV competitive strategy): Choice Specs Zoroark is a powerful wallbreaker that, unlike others, can surprise opponents thanks to Illusion and net KOs, paving the way for partners like Galarian Slowbro and Paldean Tauros-F. Sludge Bomb hits incoming Fairy-types that plan on taking a Dark Pulse like Scream Tail and Grimmsnarl. Trick allows Zoroark to maintain utility, as it can then cripple bulkier Pokemon like Wo-Chien and Florges and bulky setup sweepers like Scrafty and Arcanine. Focus Blast punishes Dark-types that try to take on Zoroark's Dark Pulse like Skuntank and Bombirdier. U-turn can also be run to give extra utility to Zoroark, allowing it to gain momentum. Tera Dark is preferred to boost Zoroark's wallbreaking capabilities to insane levels, allowing it to 2HKO Gastrodon after a layer of Spikes and non-Assault Vest Goodra, but Tera Poison gifts Zoroark a boost to its Sludge Bomb and a resistance to Fighting-type attacks, letting it survive a hit from Heracross and Paldean Tauros-F. However, Tera Fighting can also be used to boost Focus Blast's damage output, preventing Pokemon like Skuntank and Wo-Chien from taking on Zoroark as well as they could otherwise. Though, with the latter two Tera types, Zoroark's Psychic-type immunity turns into a weakness, worsening its matchup against Delphox, Meloetta, and Galarian Articuno. Zoroark's access to Illusion allows it to pair well with Paldean Tauros-W and Calm Mind Florges, as it can disguise as them to lure in and beats Pokemon such as Decidueye, Bronzong, and Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro, which tend to switch in to check them. Some of Zoroark's checks, namely Milotic and Assault Vest Hariyama, are open to getting chipped away at by entry hazards, so Spikes setters like Gastrodon, Alolan Sandslash, and Heracross pair well alongside it. When paired with physical wallbreakers like Emboar and Hariyama, Zoroark can have its specially defensive checks like Scrafty and Gastrodon overpowered while together they can chip away at shared checks like Milotic and Scream Tail. Fairy- and Fighting-types like Grimmsnarl and Flamigo force Zoroark out, so checks to these Pokemon like Salazzle and Bellibolt make for strong teammates. In return, Zoroark can chip away at bulky Water- and Ground-types they struggle against, such as Qwilfish and Gligar. While Zoroark can play mind games with Illusion, how healthy a Pokemon is can easily give away who's out on the battlefield, so it must be paired with teammates that have access to entry hazard removal like Altaria, Alolan Sandslash, and Tatsugiri. Although suffering competition from other Choice Scarfers such as Florges and Flamigo due to more spammable STAB moves and more utility, Zoroark finds itself a niche thanks to a spammable STAB attack in Knock Off, great Attack and Speed stats, and Illusion allowing it to create mindgames against the opposing team. U-turn allows Zoroark to pivot against awkward matchups such as Florges and Mudsdale while generating momentum for its team. Trick cripples walls such as Bellibolt, Milotic, and Terastallized Wo-Chien as well as setup sweepers like Florges and Scrafty that would otherwise try and switch into Knock Off or try to setup and sweep. Low Kick targets Pokemon like Coalossal and opposing Dark-types such as Wo-Chien for decent damage. Tera Dark boosts the power of Knock Off, allowing Zoroark to achieve rolls such as 2HKOing Rotom-H and OHKOing Bronzong and Ambipom after minimal chip and helping Zoroark to clean up games with Knock Off. Alternatively, Tera Fighting boosts Low Kick, OHKOing Alolan Sandslash while also providing a valuable defensive typing that allows Zoroark to resist Stealth Rock and U-turn, although it makes Zoroark lose its valuable immunity to Psychic. Choice Scarf Zoroark finds itself fitting on balance teams looking for a revenge killer and fast pivot. Zoroark struggles to break through bulky physical walls such as Bellibolt, Coalossal, and Mudsdale, so checks to these threats like Golurk and Paldean Tauros-W make good partners. Zoroark's ability to threaten out Bronzong, Delphox, and Galarian Slowbro makes it an excellent partner to Pokemon like the aforementioned Paldean Tauros-W, Toxtricity, and Salazzle. In return, Zoroark appreciates disguising as these three in order to play mindgames with its checks such as Wo-Chien and Milotic. Hazard control from Coalossal, Altaria, and Tatsugiri allows Zoroark to be a more effective pivot and revenge killer while also helping it to keep its Illusion intact. Zoroark appreciates teammates like Decidueye, Paldean Tauros-F, and Toxtricity that can take advantage to setup or revenge kill offensive Pokemon that threaten it out, such as Paldean Tauros-W, Scrafty, and Florges. Zoroark's high Speed and Special Attack alongside decent coverage allow it to serve as a threatening Nasty Plot sweeper. However, what allows Zoroark to excel in this field is its unpredictability, with its wide variety of sets and unique ability in Illusion giving it a definite niche over other Nasty Plot users such as Delphox and Salazzle. Sludge Bomb provides coverage for Fairy-types such as Florges and Grimmsnarl, as well as hitting other Dark-resistant foes such as Emboar, Hariyama, and Bombirdier neutrally. Flamethrower hits any remaining threats, OHKOing Skuntank and Heracross at after a Nasty Plot. Focus Blast is another option that hits many of the same neutral targets harder and, after using Nasty Plot, OHKOes some of Zoroark's largest roadblocks, such as Snorlax, Assault Vest Copperajah, Bulk Up Scrafty, and specially defensive Wo-Chien. However, this extra power is often not needed once boosted, and Focus Blast missing can put an end Zoroark's sweep instantly. While vast, Zoroark's special movepool falls short in power, so the extra boost from Life Orb is greatly appreciated and needed for many of the previously mentioned KOes. Heavy-Duty Boots can help Zoroark set up more safely and further help it bluff the opponent via Illusion, but losing out on the power boost from Life Orb is suboptimal. Tera Dark further helps with the lacking power, giving Dark Pulse its much-needed boost to KO bulky threats such as Milotic, Goodra, and Gastrodon with little previous damage. Tera Poison boosts Sludge Bomb to further its reliability against neutral targets and grants resistances to all of Dark's weaknesses, allowing Zoroark to tank a hit from threats like Florges, Flamigo, and Pawmot. Tera Ghost supplies similar resistances while giving up any offensive prowess for the useful immunity to priority moves like Arcanine's Extreme Speed and Pawmot's Mach Punch, and it can punish Choice-locked Pokemon like Emboar and Paldean Tauros-F. However, this also leaves Zoroark weak to previously resisted priority moves like Decidueye's Shadow Sneak and Skuntank's Sucker Punch. The defensive utility and surprise factor of Tera Poison and Ghost can also give Zoroark a chance to start setting up. Nasty Plot Zoroark is ideally run on offensive teams seeking a late-game special sweeper rather than the utility ran on Zoroark's other sets such as item control, pivoting, and speed control. As such, it should have teammates that can take out common revenge killers like Ambipom, Choice Scarf Staraptor, and Choice Scarf Paldean Tauros-F. Bellibolt and Mudsdale make for good defensive checks to these revenge killers, with the former notably being able to paralyze these faster threats with Static and safely bring Zoroark in with its slow Volt Switch. Knock Off users like Copperajah and Gligar can also be helpful with this due to being able to remove a foe's Choice Scarf. Smeargle or Vikavolt's Sticky Web is a niche option to slow down foes but is rarely run outside of teams centered around it. Fighting-types like Pawmot, Flamigo, and Hariyama pair well with Zoroark, simultaneously luring Psychic-type moves that it can take advantage of while benefitting from the opponent's hesitance to use them. Furthermore, they are able to check special walls like Scrafty and Snorlax for Zoroark. Psychic- and Ghost-types like Delphox, Hoopa, and Golurk can accomplish similar feats alongside Zoroark while keeping Fighting-types in line. The former two pair especially well with Zoroark due to also being able to run sets with both Choice items and boosting moves, leading to more mind games with the opponent. Wallbreakers like Goodra and Choice Specs Toxtricity can wear down special walls like Wo-Chien and Gastrodon to put them in KO range for a boosted Zoroark. Florges is an especially notable threat to Zoroark due to its bulk and Fairy typing, so checks to it such as Copperajah, Galarian Slowbro, and Arcanine are much appreciated. Zoroark stands out as a very strong Swords Dance user, leveraging the lack of defensive Dark-resistant Pokemon; the various Dark-weak staples like Galarian Slowbro, Delphox, and Golurk; and Illusion allowing it to disguise itself as other Swords Dance users to give it setup opportunities and tear holes in the opposing team. Knock Off and Sucker Punch are great STAB options that give Zoroark a devastating mix of wallbreaking power and priority, with Sucker Punch allowing it to pick off weakened Choice Scarf users like Staraptor and Rotom-C. Aerial Ace allows Zoroark to hit Fighting-types like Heracross and Emboar that would survive a +2 Knock Off as well as weakening all Paldean Tauros formes, while Low Kick removes Coalossal, Regirock, and Duraladon consistently; both of these options let it remove or severely weaken Scrafty and Wo-Chien. A Life Orb in conjunction with Tera Dark gives Zoroark outstanding power at +2; it gains great odds to OHKO physically defensive bulwarks like Bellibolt and Mudsdale after a single layer of Spikes, as well as always OHKOing Milotic, Altaria, and specially defensive Alolan Sandslash. Heavy-Duty Boots forgoes the power on Life Orb in favor of more bluffing potential and less chip damage, getting more setup opportunities as a result. Black Glasses can be used to hit similar damage benchmarks compared to Life Orb without taking recoil; however, it misses out on the guaranteed OHKOs stated above and has worse odds to OHKO Bellibolt and Mudsdale under the same circumstances. Swords Dance Zoroark is an effective wallbreaker but struggles with faster Pokemon that resist Sucker Punch and slower priority users that resist Sucker Punch, like Skuntank, Paldean Tauros-W, and Choice Scarf users like Flamigo, so checks to these Pokemon are highly recommended. Bellibolt and Houndstone are solid switch-ins on bulkier playstyles, while Paldean Tauros-F and Decidueye can use Skuntank and Paldean Tauros-W, respectively, as setup fodder or can easily revenge kill them with priority after Zoroark has weakened them. Zoroark heavily appreciates partners that it can disguise itself as effectively; some notable ones include Bruxish, Scyther, and Delphox, since Zoroark disguised as them can take advantage of their switch-ins like Milotic and Meloetta. Bruxish and Scyther's access to Swords Dance as well as Scyther's and Delphox's Speed tiers make it hard to tell if it's Zoroark or not. Having Zoroark on a team provides a slightly different lead selection at the beginning of a match, in that you choose the specifc order of the entire team. The way this mechanic works is that Zoroark will be disguised as the last selected teammate, unless it is KOed in which Zoroark will disguised as the second-to-last. Therefore, teammates that Illusion benefits from as like like Golurk, Salazzle, and Tauros-Paldea-Blaze should be in the back. Furthermore, if Zoroark is not leading it should be selected for the second slot to make the most of Illusion.
Gogoat (XY competitive strategy): By virtue of Gogoat's solid natural bulk and defensive typing, Gogoat makes for a sturdy setup sweeper. Horn Leech is preferred over Leaf Blade's higher power for its recovery, and it threatens out popular walls like Politoed and Gigalith. Rock Slide threatens out Grass-resistant Pokemon like Dustox, Magmar, and Jumpluff, threats that would otherwise safely switch into Horn Leech. Earthquake targets anticipated switch-ins like Swalot, Pignite, and Klang, Pokemon otherwise unfazed by Horn Leech and Rock Slide. Substitute shields Gogoat from status users like Electabuzz and Gourgeist-S; Gogoat's high-HP Substitutes also prevents Dusclops and, most of the time, Bronzor from breaking them with their standard attacking moves. Sap Sipper makes Gogoat a consistent check against Grass-types like Servine and non-Gunk Shot Simisage. 36 Speed EVs enable Gogoat to outspeed Adamant Lairon. Gogoat fits well on bulky and balance builds as both a special wall and wincon simultaneously, being a consistent switch-in against popular Grass- and Water-types like Servine and Politoed. Poison-types like Swalot and Ivysaur and Steel-types like Bronzor and Klang serve as Gogoat's biggest obstacles for successful Bulk Up sweeps; Psychic-types like Duosion and Swoobat can threaten out the aforementioned Poison-types, while Ground-types like Krokorok and Marshtomp can provide provide Stealth Rock support to rack up chip damage and threaten out Gogoat's checks. Krokorok particularly pairs well, providing utility with Knock Off and Pursuit trapping Bronzor. In return, Gogoat can threaten out Water-types like Politoed and Simipour that would threaten the Ground-types. Politoed and Seaking also serve as good partners to threaten out Fire-types like Magmar and Pignite. Cleric support from Wigglytuff can enhance Gogoat's longevity and rid of status moves it may have sustained earlier in the match. Dropping Substitute and Bulk Up for Roar and Milk Drink, respectively, makes Gogoat a sturdy phazer, though this makes it more passive and faces competition from Meganium. Offensive Bulk Up sets with an Occa Berry lure in Fire-types like Pignite and Magmar, though this sacrifices a lot of bulk and faces competition with offensive Grass-types like Jumpluff and Sawsbuck. An EV spread of 252 HP / 40 Def / 184 SpD / 32 Spe prevents Gourgeist-L from breaking its Substitutes, enabling it to use it as setup fodder.
Gogoat (SM competitive strategy): Gogoat faces major competition from other defensive Grass-types in the metagame such as Tangela and Lurantis. Gogoat suffers from four-moveslot syndrome, leaving it unable to hit Poison-types such as Skuntank and Victreebel if it chooses to run Rock Slide or unable to pressure Flying- and Bug-type Pokemon such as Dodrio, Oricorio-G, and Scyther if it chooses to run Earthquake. Additionally, Gogoat is somewhat weak without boosts and is very slow, leaving it vulnerable to status moves and revenge killers. This set attempts to function as a bulky setup sweeper utilizing Bulk Up and reliable recovery in Milk Drink. However, Gogoat's inability to deal with both Poison-types and Bug- and Flying-types at the same time as well as its low Speed limit its viability as a bulky setup sweeper. Gogoat competes heavily with other defensive Grass-types such as Tangela and Roselia, the former of which has the ability Regenerator and the latter of which has higher Special Defense and a secondary Poison typing. They are also able to provide more utility such as with Sleep Powder and Spikes.
Falinks (SS competitive strategy): Falinks is unviable in SS ZU because it is outclassed by Sawk, which has much better Attack, higher Speed, and access to Knock Off to cripple its switch-ins. Falinks attempts to act as a physical wallbreaker with its solid base Attack and Defiant to punish defoggers. However, this is not enough to overcome its competitor, Sawk, which has much better Attack and Speed stats, Mold Breaker to better deal with Levitate Pokemon like Rotom, Knock Off to cripple its switch-ins for its teammates, and coverage moves like Poison Jab to cover its weakness to Fairy-types.
Falinks (SV competitive strategy): Falinks's cheap cost can allow for pairing with an expensive Tera Captain while also maintaining a niche use as one itself. While Falinks will struggle to make as much use out of Tera as most Pokemon, Tera is not completely wasted on it either. Defensive types like Steel and Poison can allow Falinks to avoid the types that hit it for super effective damage, enabling it to take a resisted hit and set up No Retreat. Tera Fighting can also work as another damage boost for its main damaging moves once No Retreat is set up, though it offers no benefit to enabling setup opportunities. Tera Bug can increase the damage of First Impression to secure needed KOs. Falinks is a garnish on top of a nearly completed draft, adding little in the way of defense or utility but providing a cheap source of minor teambuilder pressure. Falinks should only be considered as a gimmicky option for a draft with one or two points left to spend and little need when it comes to standard roles.
Greninja (XY competitive strategy): Greninja has a high Speed stat that allows it to function well as a suicide lead in Ubers. Furthermore, Greninja has a great ability, Protean, which allows it to switch its type depending on what move it uses, meaning it can easily play around opponents. Greninja has a huge movepool with many status moves as well as physical and special moves. However, one of Greninja's downsides is its mediocre offensive stats and bulk. Additionally, Greninja can be stopped quite easily by faster offensive attackers. Lastly, Greninja faces huge competition from the Deoxys formes as a suicide lead, although its niche lies in Toxic Spikes and its ability to block Rapid Spin because of Protean Shadow Sneak. Toxic Spikes is an entry hazard that affects all Pokemon not immune to poison on the switch in, and it eventually wears down most Pokemon after two layers. Spikes is another hazard that hurts the opponent on the switch in, and it also removes the effect of any Focus Sash. Taunt prevents the opponent from using any status attack against Greninja, most notably Defog, which can remove the hazards Greninja has set up. Shadow Sneak allows Greninja to change its typing to Ghost, which allows it to block Rapid Spin. It also helps Greninja pick off weakened Pokemon and beat Deoxys-A. Hydro Pump is another option to use in order to hit Mega Diancie for super effective damage, which is important as Mega Diancie bounces hazards back and can OHKO Greninja with a super effective Moonblast. Other notable targets for Hydro Pump are Mega Sableye and Landorus-T. Protean allows Greninja to play around with the opponent by changing its type every time it uses a move with a different typing. Focus Sash is the best item because it prevents Greninja from being OHKOed, guaranteeing that it will be able to get up a hazard or Taunt a Pokemon. The Attack EVs help Greninja to 3HKO Deoxys-S, and the Speed EVs help Greninja to outspeed Arceus variants so that it can Taunt them before they set up. A Jolly nature helps Greninja to outspeed up to base 120 Speed Pokemon, such as Mega Salamence. If Greninja runs Hydro Pump, make sure to use an EV spread of 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe along with a Timid nature because this allows Greninja to OHKO Naive Mega Diancie if it tries to switch in. Greninja works best as a lead, although you must be careful when dealing with Magic Bounce users such as Mega Sableye and Mega Diancie. Set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes depending on the opposing team; Spikes troubles bulky offense teams, while Toxic Spikes beats up defensive teams by dealing damage every turn. Use Taunt when predicting the opponent to set up on you, use Defog, or set up their own hazards. Shadow Sneak is the best option to use if you predict the opponent will try to Rapid Spin away your hazards, and it has the added benefit of beating common leads such as Deoxys-A and Deoxys-S. Support from offensive Pokemon such as Mega Gengar, Mega Salamence, Genesect, and Primal Groudon is good because they prevent the opponent from using Rapid Spin or Defog. Other Taunt users such as Yveltal or Darkrai can prevent the opponent from removing your hazards with Defog once Greninja has fainted. Aside from those, Pokemon that can deal with a Darkrai lead such as Mega Diancie make for good partners too, as its ability, Magic Bounce, will bounce back Dark Void which would prevent Greninja from setting up hazards. However, when predicting the opponent with Darkrai, lead with Diancie, as it won't bounce back hazards when it switches in as regular Diancie. Furthermore, Primal Groudon is another good partner as it can set up Stealth Rock and benefit from the Toxic Spikes, which wear down its defensive checks. Pokemon such as Mega Salamence, Kyurem-W, and Darkrai that appreciate having hazards on the field to net KOs more easily make good partners. Other examples of good teammates include Mega Scizor and Primal Kyogre, which beat Mega Diancie, and Xerneas, which beats Mega Sableye. Pursuit users, such as Tyranitar or Aegislash, can help to trap Latios and Latias which can try to Defog. Powerful U-turn users such as Scizor and Landorus-T make good partners too, as they can lead and hit opposing Deoxys formes and then switch into Greninja, which can then beat them with a Shadow Sneak. Lastly, Pokemon that can make foes flinch, such as Shaymin-S or Mega Kangaskhan, benefit from poison damage that Toxic Spikes provide. An all-out attacking set with great coverage such as Gunk Shot, which can OHKO Xerneas, Low Kick, and Grass Knot, which can 2HKO Primal Groudon, is usable, but such a set is largely outclassed by Deoxys-A, which has superior offensive presence. U-turn can be used by Greninja to maintain momentum and switch out of its checks and counters, but Greninja cannot miss out on any of its current moves as it will lack a hazard, a block to Defog, or a block to Rapid Spin. Additionally, Haze is an option to remove stat boosts, but Taunt prevents the opponent from setting up on Greninja anyway.
Greninja (SM competitive strategy): Ash-Greninja remains a prominent offensive Pokemon in the metagame thanks to its great Special Attack, fantastic STAB combination, and high Speed that allows it to outrun even Tapu Koko and Weavile once transformed. Water Shuriken allows it to pick off weakened setup sweepers such as Volcarona and Shift Gear Magearna and faster Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Landorus-T, Choice Scarf Kartana, and Mega Alakazam. Spikes allows it to punish and wear down its checks over time, allowing Ash-Greninja to have an easier time grabbing KOs. However, despite its upsides and ability to match up well against offense, Ash-Greninja struggles against bulkier cores utilizing Pokemon such as Chansey and Toxapex, often just being used to set up Spikes for its teammates. Its fragility also leaves it prone to priority moves such as Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny's Fake Out, as well as preventing it from pivoting in consistently throughout a battle. Greninja, courtesy of its stellar Speed tier and amazing ability in Protean, is one of the OverUsed metagame's premier offensive threats, as it is more than capable of pressuring both faster, offensively inclined teams and bulkier builds. Its expansive movepool is a major contributing factor to its potency as an offensive force as well: because it has such a high number of move options, it can circumvent would-be counters and defensive checks and leave one's opponent guessing at Team Preview. Additionally, Greninja is one of the few viable offensively inclined user of Spikes and Toxic Spikes, which it is a stellar user of. Greninja only truly falls short when it comes to bulk, which renders it incapable of taking even resisted hits repeatedly, and the inability to run every coverage move on one set. Hydro Pump is favored due to its being Greninja's strongest viable STAB attack. Alternatively, Surf trades power for more consistency and PP. Dark Pulse gives Greninja perfect neutral coverage against Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Mega Latias, and Gastrodon. Additionally, Dark Pulse also comes with a chance to flinch, allowing Greninja to fish for it on weakened non-Dark-resistant checks like Toxapex and Ferrothorn. Water Shuriken becomes one of the strongest priority moves when Greninja is transformed and allows Greninja to check faster Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Landorus-T, Sand Rush Excadrill, and boosted Volcarona. Spikes allows Greninja to wear down and punish checks in the long run such as Toxapex, Tapu Bulu, and Kommo-o as well as support its teammates in games where it will struggle to make progress. Choice Specs maximizes Greninja's power and gives it the extra power to activate Battle Bond. However, Waterium Z allows Greninja to use a one-time Hydro Vortex to power through Pokemon such as Celesteela and Tornadus-T and allowing it to crucially switch moves. A Timid nature is used to allow Greninja to outspeed Tornadus-T and Tapu Koko after transformation. Greninja's main purpose is to KO a foe to activate Battle Bond and act as a powerful cleaner thanks to its great stats once transforming. Playing Greninja aggressively, especially if it's carrying Choice Specs, is most recommended to get the most out of Greninja's effectiveness as a wallbreaker due to it still having just enough power even prior to transformation. Predicting switches, such as against Pokemon that Greninja forces out like Heatran and Gliscor, helps Greninja pick up KOs on weakened foes more easily or support offensive partners. Against bulkier teams where Greninja can struggle to make progress, setting Spikes should always be prioritized. Good switching as well as VoltTurn support helps out Greninja immensely, since its very frail and can't switch in very easily. When paired with Groundium Z, Dig allows Greninja to remove two very prevalent checks to Ash-Greninja that it lures in, Assault Vest Magearna and Toxapex, additionally hitting other Pokemon out of reach of Greninja's coverage, like Heatran. Low Kick in combination with Fightinium Z targets the likes of Ferrothorn and Chansey, KOing them after small prior chip damage while also dealing good damage to switch-ins like Magearna and Celesteela. Greninja can also add U-turn to its kit, dealing notable damage to neutral targets and synergizing well with Spikes. Ice Beam gives Greninja solid special coverage that nails Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Mega Latios. Gunk Shot takes advantage of the likes of Tapu Fini and Tapu Bulu being lured in assuming they are dealing with Ash-Greninja, only for Gunk Shot to permanently remove them. Greninja can also take advantage of Poisonium Z, giving it a powerful hit that upgrades Gunk Shot's 2HKO on Tapu Fini into an OHKO and hits Pokemon like Kyurem-B and Rotom-W hard neutrally. Spikes lets Greninja punish the opposing team long-term, which is useful against defensive checks like Ferrothorn and Gastrodon that are vulnerable to Spikes. Toxic Spikes can punish grounded threats like Mega Medicham, opposing Greninja, and Tapu Lele hard, and Greninja can remove Toxapex with Groundium Z to maintain them. Groundium Z allows Greninja to remove Toxapex and Assault Vest Magearna, two common Ash-Greninja checks; Dig should never be used without it. Fightinium Z is used similarly, targeting Chansey and Ferrothorn instead, additionally maintaining the ability to hit Heatran and Tyranitar. Life Orb lets Greninja generally hit harder without using a Z-Crystal, increasing the potency of its coverage. Poisonium Z solidifies Greninja's matchup against Fairy-types and continues to let it hit neutral targets like Kyurem-B and Tornadus-T hard, and, as Gunk Shot is already a move that is being run, Greninja gains a free moveslot over Groundium Z and Fightinium Z variants. Although Ash-Greninja's reputation forces quite direct responses to Greninja, many opponents are aware of the possibility of Tectonic Rage and scout accordingly, even more so after Greninja reveals itself to have Protean rather than Battle Bond. Try to get Greninja in front of Pokemon like Landorus-T that both it and Ash-Greninja threaten, and play it very offensively utilizing the switches it forces; attempt to read incoming Tapu Fini and Tapu Bulu with Gunk Shot, Assault Vest Magearna and Toxapex with Tectonic Rage, or Chansey and Ferrothorn with All-Out Pummeling. Greninja can also use its own offensive pressure to set Spikes, wearing down the opposing team indirectly instead and safely making progress regardless of the opposing team. Greninja is most effective early-game before its set is revealed, so try to get it in early-game with pivot moves like U-turn and Volt Switch or via a double switch so it can make the most of the opponent's uncertainty. This variant fits best on offense and bulky offense teams, luring in defensive Pokemon and removing them to benefit itself and its offensive teammates. Volcarona sets without a Z-Move appreciate Greninja, as they benefit from both the Groundium Z variant removing Toxapex and the Fightinium Z variant removing Chansey. Greninja struggles to switch directly into hits, so pivots like Landorus-T, Rotom-W, and Assault Vest Magearna can help it get onto the field safely. Tapu Lele appreciates the removal of Jirachi and Magearna via Tectonic Rage, and in return, it sets Psychic Terrain to prevent the likes of Mega Mawile and Mega Medicham from pestering Greninja with strong priority moves. As mentioned previously, Spikes can assist cleaners like Choice Scarf Kartana and Landorus-T and wallbreakers like Mega Medicham and Mega Mawile, wearing down defensive answers and punishing switches. Hydro Pump hits the hardest neutrally and threatens Fire-types like Heatran, Victini, and Volcarona that would otherwise wall or set up on Greninja. It can additionally be powered up by Waterium Z into Hydro Vortex, becoming an incredibly strong neutral hit that OHKOes Mega Medicham and Mega Mawile, as well as Tornadus-T after Stealth Rock. Ice Beam can be used instead to hit Flying-types like Tornadus-T and Zapdos harder and threaten Dragon-types like Garchomp, Mega Latias, and Kommo-o; however, dropping Hydro Pump makes Greninja vulnerable to the aforementioned Fire-types, especially Heatran, as it resists Greninja's coverage moves. Gunk Shot hits Fairy-types like Tapu Bulu and Tapu Fini, which are common checks to Ash-Greninja, as well as Grass-types like Serperior. Ice Beam can be used over Gunk Shot, giving Greninja the aforementioned benefits without replacing Hydro Pump and thus making it vulnerable to Fire-types. Hidden Power Fire allows Greninja to threaten Ferrothorn and Mega Scizor, additionally giving it resistances to Grass and Bug—helpful against Ferrothorn's Power Whip and Mega Scizor's U-turn, respectively—as well as Fairy, which helps it more safely chip away at Magearna. Extrasensory threatens Kommo-o and Mega Venusaur and, in conjunction with Life Orb, 2HKOes Toxapex, preventing it from switching in safely; however, it has a very limited amount of uses otherwise and is usually only seen on teams with Psychic Terrain support, meaning Hidden Power Fire is generally preferred. Grass Knot allows Greninja to hit the likes of Gastrodon and Seismitoad. Spikes allows Greninja to support its team with entry hazards and wear down its own checks, like Toxapex and Chansey, while additionally giving it a valuable immunity to Electric. Toxic Spikes can be used instead to punish teams lacking a Poison-type, with targets like Mega Medicham, Tapu Lele, and Mega Swampert being ideal, although the prevalence of Toxapex harshly reduces its consistency. U-turn can be used to gain momentum, mostly being suited for teams that either already have Spikes or don't want them due to preferring to keep entry hazards off of the field. Waterium Z gives Greninja a strong attack that can finish off chipped neutral targets when necessary, although Life Orb can be used if you would prefer to fit a Z-Crystal on one of Greninja's teammates or if it isn't running Hydro Pump. Sets lacking Gunk Shot should use a Timid nature instead. Due to how much set versatility Greninja has, it has a tendency to land unexpected damage, such as against Pokemon like Tapu Fini and Ferrothorn switching in expecting an Ash-Greninja only to be punished by Gunk Shot and Hidden Power Fire, respectively. Protean can be used defensively against slower Pokemon, gifting Greninja with new resistances in place of its base typing's weaknesses; make sure to get the most out of this by making plays like using Hidden Power Fire to resist an incoming Fleur Cannon from Magearna or using Spikes to block Volt Switch. In matchups where Greninja faces a hard counter, like Toxapex or Chansey, focus on setting Spikes; Greninja can often successfully sacrifice its own HP to reach three layers of Spikes, severely reducing opposing counterplay to itself and its teammates. Greninja can use its offensive presence to become a devastating momentum tool with U-turn, pairing with other pivots to keep up pressure on the opposing team. This variant of Greninja is suited best for offense and bulky offense teams, harassing common defensive Pokemon like Tapu Fini and Ferrothorn while supporting teammates with entry hazards. Mega Mawile greatly appreciates Greninja's Spikes wearing down the likes of Heatran, Magearna, and Toxapex; in return, it can break holes in the opposing team for Greninja to clean up late-game. Tapu Lele similarly appreciates Spikes weakening Steel-types like the aforementioned Heatran and Magearna as well as others like Jirachi, and it can increase the potency of Greninja's Extrasensory by setting Psychic Terrain. Pivoting support from the likes of Landorus-T, Rotom-W, Magearna, and Tornadus-T can assist in getting the frail Greninja onto the field; Landorus-T can additionally set Stealth Rock, synergizing with Greninja's Spikes. Choice Scarf users like Kartana and Landorus-T appreciate Greninja's Spikes setting the stage for them to clean up; in a similar vein, wallbreakers like Mega Medicham and Mega Mawile, which easily force switches, also appreciate Spikes support. Rock Slide threatens boosted sweepers like Mega Charizard X and Volcarona. U-turn provides strong wallbreakers like Mega Medicham and Mega Mawile with safe entry and forces out Mega Alakazam and Ash-Greninja, allowing Greninja to chain momentum off of forced switches and mitigate the momentum loss from being Choice-locked. Ice Beam threatens clean OHKOs on the likes of Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Garchomp that otherwise wall Choice Scarf Greninja. Gunk Shot is Greninja's strongest neutral coverage option and smashes Fairy-types like Clefable, Tapu Fini, Tapu Bulu, and Tapu Koko. Greninja can take advantage of Pokemon that it scares out, like the aforementioned Ground-types, to set up Spikes. Finally, Waterfall lets Greninja threaten Ground- and Fire-types like Landorus-T, Gliscor, Heatran, and Victini with one moveslot. The given Special Attack investment allows Greninja to OHKO Kartana with Ice Beam, while the rest of its EVs are dumped into Speed and Attack. A Hasty nature is preferred over Naive to enable Greninja to handle Ash-Greninja and Magma Storm Heatran more easily. Choice Scarf Greninja is best utilized as a fast revenge killer that can threaten unexpected KOs on boosted sweepers like Volcarona and weakened Mega Charizard X. Greninja should use U-turn as much as possible to avoid losing momentum and locking into a move, including against Pokemon that it easily scares out, such as Gliscor. However, this can be risky if the opponent has contact punishers like Ferrothorn, Rocky Helmet users like Skarmory, and especially Zapdos on their team, as Greninja will get punished with chip damage and, in Zapdos's case, paralysis from Static. Greninja should only use Spikes for risky predictions if it struggles to make progress, especially against bulkier teams. It is at its most unpredictable if it is used earlier in the game before its set is revealed, so make the most of its unpredictability early-game with pivot support via Volt Switch and U-turn or aggressive double switches. However, once the opponent figures out that Greninja has a Choice Scarf, it will become easier to play around due to its inability to switch between moves. This Greninja set functions best on teams ranging from offense to bulky offense that enjoy its capabilities as a revenge killer and the momentum it provides with a fast U-turn. Strong wallbreakers like Mega Mawile and Mega Medicham love the free entry that it provides with U-turn. Mega Lopunny is a great partner for similar reasons and can put sweepers like Mega Swampert, Mega Charizard X, Gyarados, and Dragonite in KO range for Greninja with Fake Out and Quick Attack. Pivots like Magearna, Tapu Koko, Landorus-T, and Tornadus-T complement Greninja beautifully, as they provide it free entry with Volt Switch and U-turn while continuing to chain momentum. Heatran provides Stealth Rock support and is a solid answer to Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, Celesteela, and Magearna. Swords Dance variants of Kartana, especially those with Fightinium Z, benefit from Greninja removing Fire-types like Volcarona and Mega Charizard X, and they put heavy pressure on Magearna. Ferrothorn appreciates Greninja stopping the aforementioned Fire-type sweepers from winning on the spot if they nab a free setup opportunity, and it sets up Spikes, pressuring the likes of Magearna and opposing Ferrothorn while allowing Greninja room to run Gunk Shot. Kommo-o appreciates Greninja luring in and removing Mega Alakazam and Tapu Fini with U-turn and Gunk Shot, and the free switches provided allow it opportunities to set up with Dragon Dance or Clangorous Soulblaze. Additionally, Kommo-o pressures and forces chip damage on Toxapex with Taunt, especially with the Spikes support that Greninja provides. Ash-Greninja does not have many other viable options, as Spikes is far superior to other last move options. However, if Spikes is already present on the team, Ash-Greninja can opt to run Ice Beam to more immediately threaten Tapu Bulu, Dragonite, and Kommo-o. U-turn allows Ash-Greninja to maintain momentum for its team and pairs well with other wallbreakers such as Mega Medicham and Tapu Lele, which are able to take advantage of common switch-ins to Ash-Greninja like Chansey and Toxapex. Both Hydro Pump and Surf can be used together on rain teams. Hidden Power Electric is an option on regular Greninja to hit Gyarados and Mantine. Z-Happy Hour Greninja can serve as a threatening sweeper, but it suffers from lack of viability because of Greninja's frailty and lack of coverage when using it.
Greninja (SS competitive strategy): Surf may be used over Hydro Pump on rain teams to have both accuracy and power, but its considerably lower power outside of rain may hinder Ash-Greninja's overall wallbreaking prowess by situationally missing out on KOs. Spikes gives Ash-Greninja an option to punish the opponent in the long run for switching in checks such as Toxapex, Tapu Fini lacking Defog, and Ferrothorn. Ash-Greninja generally fits best on balance and bulky offensive teams capable of providing it with a sturdy defensive backbone it can fall back on, as well as proper offensive support in order to assist it in activating Battle Bond and cleaning up. Depending on the set, either Toxapex or Blissey will be the largest roadblock to activating Battle Bond. If running U-turn, run teammates that can take advantage of both Toxapex and Blissey after Ash-Greninja pivots out of them. Mega Medicham, Garchomp, Taunt Heatran, and Tapu Lele are some great options in this regard. If running Spikes, forcing progress against Blissey with smart double switches into teammates such as Mega Medicham, Mega Mawile, and Kartana is especially crucial. Tapu Fini and Hydreigon are some other Pokemon Ash-Greninja may struggle against initially, with both comfortably stomaching its STAB moves. Thus, strong means of pressuring them like Kyurem and Tapu Koko can prove helpful. Knock Off support from the likes of Clefable, Toxapex, and Ferrothorn assists Ash-Greninja by removing crucial items from checks such as Blissey, Gastrodon, Tapu Fini, and Toxapex. Ferrothorn is particularly helpful, freeing up Ash-Greninja's last moveslot by virtue of being a great Spikes setter itself. Although Water Shuriken remedies this to an extent, Ash-Greninja remains prone to faster attackers as well as priority and Choice Scarf users such as Mega Medicham, Mega Lopunny, Choice Scarf Landorus-T, and Rillaboom. A sturdy defensive backbone consisting of Pokemon such as Slowbro, Clefable, Corviknight, and Zapdos can combat these threats. Slowbro and Slowking are particularly effective, pressuring Toxapex, Gastrodon, and Tapu Fini with Future Sight and safely bringing Ash-Greninja in with Teleport. Ash-Greninja is a powerful staple on rain teams, which greatly help it activate Battle Bond by pairing it with wallbreakers and strengthening its Water-type attacks. Wallbreakers that pair well with Ash-Greninja include Mega Swampert, Zapdos, and Manaphy. Lastly, as Ash-Greninja's bulk is quite mediocre, pivoting support from the likes of Slowbro, Corviknight, Blissey, and Mega Scizor can let it safely enter a battle. Greninja is a potent threat that utilizes its stellar coverage options and Z-Moves alongside Protean to lure in checks to Battle Bond Greninja such as Toxapex, Tapu Fini, and Blissey. It's also hard to check both defensively and offensively due to its coverage moves and great Speed tier. Dig allows Greninja to fire off a strong Tectonic Rage and KO the likes of Toxapex, which tends to switch in due to being a check to Battle Bond Greninja. It also hits the likes of Mega Mawile and Heatran and makes up for Greninja's general lack of power. Low Kick alongside Fightinium Z enables a powerful All-Out Pummeling, allowing it to break through Blissey and Chansey. Both Z-Moves make sure Greninja is able to beat Pokemon like Mega Tyranitar and Mega Mawile. Ice Beam lets Greninja hit Grass- and Dragon-types such as Kommo-o, Amoonguss, and Hydreigon, as well as Ground-types such as Gliscor, Garchomp, and Landorus-T. Gunk Shot nails the Fairy-types that would otherwise pester it such as Tapu Fini, Tapu Bulu, and Clefable. Lastly, Spikes lets Greninja pressure its checks such as Mega Scizor, as well as wearing down opposing teams long-term, letting its teammates clean more easily. Greninja works well with teammates that appreciate it luring in and weakening bulky Water- and Grass-types such as Tapu Fini, Tangrowth, and Tapu Bulu. Weavile, Gliscor, Tapu Koko, and Urshifu-R are great examples. Greninja's Spikes support also wears down foes such as Toxapex, Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Tapu Fini, which teammates such as Clefable, Tapu Koko, Mega Mawile, Mega Diancie, and Hydreigon appreciate. Due to Greninja's lack of power, it struggles to break through bulkier teams, notably relying on a Z-Move to break through Toxapex, Heatran, and Chansey; teammates that can consistently pressure these Pokemon such as Gliscor and Clefable work well with it. Lastly, Greninja struggles to break through Steel-types that take its Z-Moves well like Corviknight, Mega Scizor, and Skarmory, so Magnezone is a stellar partner alongside it, further preventing Corviknight from using Defog to clear Greninja's Spikes. Waterium-Z Greninja is a potent Spiker that can remove common Defoggers such as Corviknight, Gliscor and Zapdos, allowing it to stack multiple layers of Spikes successfully. Hydro Pump in conjunction with Waterium-Z gives Greninja a terrifying Hydro Vortex which dents neutral targets and removes the likes of Heatran and Corviknight after minor chip, preventing them from taking advantage of Greninja. Gunk Shot disposes of Grass- and Fairy-types such as Serperior, Tapu Fini, Clefable, and Tapu Lele that normally pressure it out, while also letting Greninja break past Mega Latias and Rotom-W much more easily with the poison chance. Hidden Power Fire pressures Steel-types such as Mega Scizor and Ferrothorn, which otherwise wall it. Lastly, Spikes takes advantage of Greninja's solid offensive presence to set multiple layers and wear down the opposing team for it and its teammates, while also letting it make progress against Toxapex and Chansey. Due to Greninja's potency as a Spiker, it works extremely well with teammates such as Mega Lopunny, Gliscor, and Mega Mawile who greatly value Spikes wearing down their checks. Serperior and Volcarona are also great partners as they greatly appreciate Greninja forcing out their biggest check in Heatran and wearing it down with Spikes. Due to Greninja being walled by Toxapex, Tapu Lele and Gliscor make excellent partners, as they can take advantage of Toxapex and force it out. Kartana, Tapu Koko, and Garchomp also appreciate Greninja luring in Grass-types such as Ferrothorn and Tangrowth, while still taking advantage of Toxapex. Lastly, the aforementioned Garchomp, Heatran, and Clefable can all form a formidable entry hazard stacking core with Greninja that can overwhelm the opposing team. Heavy-Duty Boots Greninja is a potent Spiker, with its offensive power discouraging many common Defoggers such as Corviknight and Tapu Fini from coming in, and Heavy-Duty Boots improving its lackluster longevity. Its high Speed tier alongside constant U-turn pivoting makes Heavy-Duty Boots especially appealing. Gunk Shot lets Greninja pressure Tapu Fini, helping keep its Spikes up, as well as hitting Tapu Bulu and Serperior harder. Hydro Pump instead lets Greninja pressure Mega Diancie and Heatran, although Greninja then can't stop Tapu Fini from freely coming in and using Defog. Ice Beam nails Grass-, Ground-, and Dragon-types such as Serperior, Hydreigon, Gliscor, and Garchomp, as well as letting it revenge kill Kartana. U-turn lets Greninja generate momentum on Pokemon that normally wall it such as Corviknight, Toxapex, and Slowbro, and bringing in a teammate to take advantage of them like Kartana or Tapu Koko. Lastly, Spikes whittles down common switch-ins such as Toxapex, Amoonguss, and Tangrowth, constantly pressuring opposing teams, especially when alongside other entry hazards. Greninja‘s great Speed tier allows it to clean against weakened teams, so heavy hitters such as Melmetal, Garchomp, and Mega Medicham are amazing partners. Mega Latios and Gliscor greatly appreciate Greninja's Spikes stacking wearing down their checks. Since Greninja struggles to break through opposing entry hazard removers such as Corviknight and Tapu Fini, Pokemon that can pressure them such as Garchomp, Heatran, and Mega Diancie are stellar partners, and they also pair Stealth Rock with its Spikes. Because Greninja can't break through bulky Steel-types such as Ferrothorn, Corviknight, and Mega Scizor, Magnezone is amazing to remove these problematic Pokemon for it, as well as preventing Corviknight from clearing its Spikes with Defog. Greninja lures Corviknight in by setting Spikes, uses U-turn on the Defog turn, and brings Magnezone in, letting Magnezone trap and eliminate Corviknight for Greninja to continuously set Spikes later. Pokemon that can threaten bulky Water-types such as Toxapex and Slowking, such as Kartana, Tapu Koko, and Rillaboom, also work well with Greninja, as it can't normally break through them. Knock Off users such as Rillaboom and Toxapex can remove Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon such as Volcorona, Tapu Koko, Blissey, and Slowbro to make Greninja's Spikes more impactful. Choice Scarf Greninja is a potent revenge killer, utilizing its coverage options and blistering Speed tier to beat a large number of offensive threats. This even includes boosted Pokemon such as Volcarona, Mega Gyarados, and Mega Garchomp, as well as other Choice Scarf users like Landorus-T, Victini, and Tapu Lele; however, its low power and frailty leave it easily checked defensively. Ice Beam allows Greninja to revenge kill Ground- and Dragon-types such as Landorus-T, Gliscor, Hydreigon, and Mega Garchomp. U-turn allows Greninja to pivot out of Pokemon that wall it, such as Toxapex, Corviknight, and Mega Scizor, and generate momentum on predicted switches. Rock Slide lets Greninja revenge kill boosted Volcarona and Mega Charizard X, as well as a weakened Kyurem. Spikes pressures common switch-ins such as Toxapex and Amoonguss, wearing them down for its teammates. Gunk Shot nails Tapu Koko, Tapu Fini, and Clefable, as well as OHKOing Tapu Bulu and Serperior, which Ice Beam is unable to do. Low Kick gives Greninja a way to hit Heatran and Tyranitar, as well as revenge killing Mega Lopunny and Weavile. Grass Knot lets Greninja pressure Gastrodon and revenge kill Mega Swampert in rain. The given EV spread allows Greninja to OHKO Kartana with Ice Beam. Strong wallbreakers such as Mega Medicham and Mega Mawile appreciate Greninja safely pivoting them into its switch-ins such as Toxapex, Heatran and Chansey, which they can reliably beat. Furthermore, offensive teammates broadly wear down Pokemon for Greninja, letting it revenge kill them late-game with its amazing Speed tier. Due to its frailty, Greninja appreciates pivoting support from the likes of Corviknight, Landorus-T, and Mega Scizor. Due to Greninja's inability to punish most Steel-types, Magnezone is a stellar partner, trapping and removing Pokemon such as Corviknight and Mega Scizor while forming a strong VoltTurn core with it. Heatran pressures the bulky Steel- and Water-types that Greninja lures in, notably appreciating Greninja luring in Tapu Fini for it. Ice Beam may be used over Spikes on rain teams with Ferrothorn as the Spikes setter so that Ash-Greninja can lure in and damage Hydreigon and Kommo-o for teammates to take advantage of. It is, however, strictly inferior to U-turn and Spikes outside of rain teams, as it leaves Ash-Greninja unable to make progress against many of its other checks and easily taken advantage of. U-turn enables Ash-Greninja to take proper advantage of Blissey, but it fails to make much of any progress against Toxapex and Amoonguss, who are more relevant roadblocks for Ash-Greninja. For Protean Greninja, Psychium Z with Extrasensory can be used on a specially-based set to remove Toxapex and Amoonguss, but since both generally invest in Special Defense, it struggles to break them without substantial chip damage. Expert Belt can be used with Greninja's great coverage for much higher wallbreaking power, but lacking a Z-Move means more prediction is required. Hidden Power Fire can also be used over Gunk Shot or Hydro Pump on the Heavy-Duty Boots set to pressure Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Corviknight, but lets Tapu Fini wall it and Mega Diancie constantly pivot into Spikes.
Greninja (SV competitive strategy): With its wide coverage combined with its excellent ability Protean, Choice Specs Greninja is a scary wallbreaker that hits all of the metagame at least neutrally while outspeeding common offensive Pokemon such as Latios and Ogerpon-C. Surf is the best option to deal strong damage, as Hydro Pump can unfortunately miss and lacks PP. However, Hydro Pump could still be an option to inflict more damage, as it can OHKO defensive Excadrill and 2HKO defensive Tyranitar and Tinkaton, though Surf deals with these Pokemon with entry hazards anyway. Ice Beam is able to hit Tornadus-T, Mandibuzz, and Ogerpon-C super effectively, whereas Sludge Wave can surprise common switch-ins like Azumarill and Keldeo and gives Greninja a resistance to Fighting-type moves, such as Secret Sword, allowing it to 2HKO Keldeo. Spikes chips the opposing team in the long term and punishes switch-ins, helping Greninja and its teammates clean more easily. Greninja naturally finds some good opportunities to set up a layer of Spikes or two thanks to the switches it naturally forces. U-turn is an alternative that grants Greninja some momentum, allowing it to pivot out on Pokemon that can wall it such as Empoleon, Gastrodon, and Toxapex. Tera Water is preferred to boost the power of Greninja's Water-type move, guaranteeing an OHKO on Scizor and Cobalion with Surf and a 2HKO on Keldeo with Hydro Pump, although it shouldn't Terastallize outside of an emergency because it'll lose the boost of Protean. Due to its severe frailty and incapacity to switch in easily, Greninja fits well on bulky offense teams that can afford slow VoltTurn support to bring it safely into battle, and they also provide some defensive backbones for Greninja to rely on. Teammates such as Cobalion, Tornadus-T, and Slowking are thus very appreciated, especially since Slowking can be useful to pressure Toxapex and Gastrodon with Future Sight. Excadrill is a helpful partner that can help Greninja by crushing common Water-resistant Pokemon like Rotom-W, allowing Greninja to spam its Water-type move. Also, Excadrill is capable of removing entry hazards, which can be a little overwhelming for Greninja. In the same way, Knock Off support helps Greninja by removing crucial items such as Assault Vest on Tornadus-T and Heavy-Duty Boots on Slowking and Volcanion. Examples of users would be Tornadus-T and Tinkaton. Since Greninja causes a lot of switches, hazard setters like Sandy Shocks and the aforementioned Cobalion are helpful. Cobalion can also check the powerful Lokix. Lastly, offensive teammates such as Calm Mind Latios and Comfey like the opposing team weakened by Greninja's powerful moves so that they can clean up, while others such as Ogerpon-C and Lokix can overwhelm their shared checks with Choice Specs Greninja, with examples of these being Toxapex, Tinkaton, and Empoleon. Battle Bond turns Greninja into one of UU’s deadliest sweepers and revenge killers, as simply getting just one KO alone grants Greninja significant boosts in Special Attack and Speed to become a very difficult-to-wall sweeper that also avoids revenge killing attempts barring priority. Hydro Pump is an option over Surf for greater power, but Surf’s accuracy is much more desirable due to Greninja’s frailty and Hydro Pump's potential to be punished via a miss. Ice Beam allows Greninja to take down Hydrapple, Tornadus-T, and Ogerpon. Sludge Wave is a more specific option that helps versus Azumarill and Quaquaval, hitting them for neutral damage. Extrasensory is an option for the third moveslot to nail checks like Quaquaval and Toxapex. Protect allows Greninja to block First Impression from Lokix and scout attacks from Choice item users such as Latios and Hydrapple. It also can scout reactive Terastallizations from foes like Skeledirge and Tornadus-T. Water Shuriken allows Greninja to pick off faster targets like Sand Rush Excadrill and Choice Scarf Mienshao as well as beating out priority moves from Scizor and Mamoswine and KOing them when they are at low health. Life Orb is key in granting Greninja the power needed to break past foes such as Rotom-W, Slowking, and Assault Vest Tornadus-T despite reducing Greninja's limited longevity. Tera Water removes Greninja’s weakness to Fighting-type moves and gives it a permanently stronger Surf. Tera Stellar gives all of Greninja's moves extra power to take down Assault Vest Tornadus-T, Tera Steel Hydrapple, and Rotom-W late-game, and it gives Greninja a good shot at taking down Sand Rush Excadrill with Water Shuriken. Greninja best fits on offensive teams and is best supported by teammates that can weaken its checks and counters so that it can have an easier time cleaning up. Latios acts as a secondary wallbreaker, which can force critical damage on foes such as Skeledirge and Toxapex as well as overwhelmed shared checks like Azumarill and Assault Vest Tornadus-T. Mamoswine and Ogerpon-C similarly can punch holes into the opposing team by taking down the likes of Skeledirge and Mandibuzz, and they can wear down checks like Hydrapple for Greninja to clean late-game. Knock Off support from Tinkaton, Tornadus-T, and Ogerpon can cripple checks such as Slowking, Rotom-W, and Assault Vest Tornadus-T to bring them into KO range of Greninja's attacks. Strong Electric-types such as Sandy Shocks and Thundurus-T are essential in punching holes through Water-types such as Keldeo and Azumarill that give Greninja trouble. Entry hazard support is key in putting foes such as Tinkaton, Rotom-W, and Toxapex into KO range, making hazard setters like the aforentioned Sandy Shocks, your own Tinkaton, and Cobalion valuable teammates. Sandy Shocks pressures Tornadus-T while Tinkaton and Cobalion can punish revenge killers like Ogerpon, Choice Scarf Zarude, and Lokix if Greninja lacks Protect. Cobalion also can bring Greninja in with Volt Switch against Hydrapple and Mandibuzz to wallbreak while crippling Tornadus-T with Thunder Wave. Excadrill can remove hazards to avoid worsening the damage Greninja takes from Life Orb, and it offensively handles Rotom-W, Toxapex, and Empoleon while also swapping into Tinkaton.
Drednaw (SS competitive strategy): Drednaw takes one page from Kabutops and another from Crustle but fails to stand out as an entry hazard lead. Even with Drednaw's unique access to Jaw Lock, Kabutops's better utility moves like Knock Off and Rapid Spin make it superior at stopping hazards from being set up on its side while also disrupting hazard removers, whereas Crustle's access to Sturdy makes it more flexible for use later on in the game. Drednaw can trap weaker entry hazard setters like Stunfisk and Clefairy and be guaranteed to set up Stealth Rock. However, because Drednaw lacks Kabutops's utility in Knock Off and Rapid Spin, and Crustle's Sturdy, it ends up outclassed by both of them. Kabutops can even reach benchmarks like outspeeding Modest Thievul, whereas Drednaw cannot.
Drednaw (SV competitive strategy): Drednaw stands out as a premier hyper offense and offense option, able to threaten a sweep after a single Shell Smash. With access to Strong Jaw-boosted Ice Fang and Crunch, even typically sturdy physical walls such as Bronzong and Amoonguss can struggle to take its attacks. Drednaw also naturally outspeeds the majority of the tier after a Shell Smash boost, including even +1 Speed Cinccino as well as Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Munkidori and Flamigo. However, Drednaw can struggle with Grass- and Water-types such as Breloom and Paldean Tauros-W, as they can take one of its hits and KO it back with either Seed Bomb or Close Combat, respectively. Furthermore, priority users such as Toxicroak, Barraskewda, and Basculegion-M can revenge kill Drednaw once it has sustained solid chip damage. Drednaw can also struggle to OHKO common walls such as Bellibolt and Amoonguss, even if it carries the right coverage options for them, forcing it to rely on entry hazards. Drednaw also can struggle with four-moveslot syndrome, as Pokemon such as Toxicroak and Paldean Tauros-W can wall Drednaw if it doesn't have Tera Blast Flying or Earthquake, but if it drops Crunch, then Bronzong can be a big problem. Stone Edge can be used if Drednaw wants to free up its item slot, while Rock Blast in conjunction with Loaded Dice gives Drednaw a much more reliable STAB move, though at the cost of being revenge killed by priority moves from higher health ranges. Ice Fang hits Pokemon such as Amoonguss, Tsareena, and Flygon for large damage. Crunch allows Drednaw to hit checks such as Galarian Slowbro, Bronzong, and Uxie, while Tera Blast Flying allows Drednaw to snipe usual counters in Breloom, Toxicroak, and Paldean Tauros-W. Alternatively, Earthquake can hit Steel-types such as Copperajah and Klefki while targeting Bellibolt as well. White Herb makes Drednaw much more reliable against common priority users such as Baculegion-M. Shell Armor can be used on sets without Crunch or Ice Fang to give Drednaw security against critical hits while setting up. Tera Dark gives Crunch a chance to OHKO Amoonguss after Stealth Rock and also gives Drednaw an immunity to Klefki's Prankster Thunder Wave, while Tera Flying flips Drednaw's usual weakness to Ground, Grass, and Fighting. Tera Ground gives Drednaw an immunity to Electric-type attacks from Raikou and Kilowattrel as well as Thunder Wave immunity against Klefki and boosts the power of Earthquake to OHKO Pokemon such as Bellibolt. Drednaw fits best on hyper offense and offense teams, which heavily appreciate its ability to easily end games. Pokemon such as Toxicroak and Decidueye that can take advantage of bulky Water- and Grass-types are good teammates, as they can use these typical counters to Drednaw as a setup opportunity. Entry hazard setters like Klefki and Scream Tail can allow Drednaw to beat usual counters such as Vaporeon and Amoonguss. On the other hand, Cincinno can remove hazards on Drednaw's side to allow it to more easily set up, while it can help overwhelm the Steel-types that Cincinno typically struggles with. Other physical sweepers such as Flamigo, Flygon, and Overqwil pair well with Drednaw, as together they can overwhelm walls that they struggle with such as Bellibolt, Bronzong, and Copperajah, respectively. Special attackers like Toxtricity and Scream Tail also help Drednaw, as they can take advantage of its usual checks such as Grass- and Fighting-types and use them as a setup opportunity. Alolan Ninetales can not only set up Aurora Veil to help aid Drednaw in sweeping, but it can also revenge kill the common Fighting-types that Drednaw struggles against such as Paldean Tauros-W and Flamigo with Moonblast. Air Balloon can be used to allow Drednaw to set up against common Ground-types such as Rhyperior and Flygon. Focus Sash allows Drednaw to guarantee a setup opportunity even in the face of Pokemon such as Flamigo and Tsareena that might otherwise OHKO it. Tera Ghost gives an immunity to Choice-locked Fighting-type attackers such as Toxicroak and Paldean Tauros-W, allowing Drednaw to potentially set up again on them while also giving it a resistance to Flygon's First Impression.
Copperajah (SS competitive strategy): Copperajah's blend of offense and defense makes it a potent wallbreaker that also offers teams an awful lot defensively. Teams typically will struggle to fit a reliable defensive switch-in to Copperajah because of its great coverage, which limits otherwise reasonable checks like Guzzlord and Mudsdale to being situational switch-ins. Copperajah is also a fine Stealth Rock setter because it retains a significant offensive presence even with minimal investment, giving it plenty of chances to force foes out and set its entry hazard. Copperajah's biggest flaw, however, is how poor its longevity is. It is heavily reliant on Wish support to stay healthy and is prone to getting repeatedly weakened by pivoting moves from foes like Rotom-C, Heliolisk, and Ninjask, forcing it to cede momentum. It's also incredibly slow, which greatly expands the list of foes that will threaten Copperajah and force it out. Power Whip targets Ground- and Water-types like Mudsdale, Quagsire, Gastrodon, and Vaporeon. Stone Edge prevents Talonflame from safely switching in, OHKOes Salazzle, and is Copperajah's best move to hit Arcanine with. Superpower hits other Copperajah hard and chunks Guzzlord and Glastrier, although Heat Crash smashes foes like Rotom-C, Vileplume, and Escavalier. Wish and cleric support from Vaporeon or Sylveon is almost necessary, as without it, Copperajah is a much worse standalone defensive option and more vulnerable to status from the likes of Talonflame. Additionally, Vaporeon checks Fire-types like Salazzle and Talonflame, while Sylveon helps against certain Fighting-types like Gallade and Passimian. Although Copperajah's great special bulk helps it find its own chances to switch in, pivot support from Pokemon like Talonflame, Rotom-C, and Xatu ensures safer entry onto the field. Copperajah is great at forcing damage onto foes like Mudsdale, Mantine, and Guzzlord; setup sweepers like Salazzle and Silvally-Ground benefit from this. Lastly, other slow wallbreakers like Golurk and Exploud benefit from Copperajah answering faster special attackers like Rotom-C, Starmie, and Inteleon and can form a strong wallbreaking core with it. Power Whip lets Copperajah take on Water-types like Starmie and Vaporeon and prevents Ground-types like Silvally-Ground, Golurk, and Mudsdale from switching in as easily. Rock Slide is needed to take out Talonflame, although Heat Crash can be considered for Rotom-C and Escavalier. The Speed investment gives Copperajah the jump on Dhelmise, but Copperajah's Speed is very flexible. Copperajah is easily walled and exploited by Fire-types like Talonflame and Arcanine, so the support of Water- and Dragon-types like Starmie, Vaporeon, and Alolan Exeggutor is good to have. In addition, Starmie can soft check Fighting-types, Vaporeon provides Wish and cleric support, and Alolan Exeggutor breaks down physical walls that Copperajah draws in. In return, Copperajah checks Grass-types for the former two and Fairy-types for the latter. Copperajah forms solid defensive cores with physically defensive Pokemon like Xatu, Talonflame, and Sylveon; additionally, the former two appreciate Copperajah checking Electric-types such as Rotom-C and Heliolisk, whereas the latter enjoys help against Exploud. Copperajah's inability to force Stealth Rock up against Xatu mandates the support of teammates like Rotom-C, Decidueye, and Silvally-Ghost that can break past it. Iron Head can be used over Heavy Slam on Stealth Rock sets so that Glastrier can't take advantage of Copperajah as easily. Sheer Force can be considered to boost its and Rock Slide's power further. Choice Band sets sacrifice longevity for incredible wallbreaking power, but because Copperajah's Speed tier is so poor, it appreciates the extra survivability Assault Vest provides more. Play Rough immediately removes Guzzlord and prevents Scrafty from setting up against Copperajah, but it's otherwise very limited in use. Protect + Leftovers sets are solid for scouting Choice item attackers like Exploud, Guzzlord, and Passimian and increase Copperajah's self sufficiency.
Copperajah (SV competitive strategy): Copperajah stands out from the other Steel-types for being a defensive tank that packs both firepower and utility. It checks special wallbreakers like Diancie, Munkidori, and Porygon-Z. Additionally, Copperajah's deep movepool gives it a lot of utility options. For example, Knock Off allows it to hit item-reliant Pokemon that commonly switch into it like Rotom-H and Incineroar, letting Copperajah's entry hazards chip away at them, and Whirlwind lets it phaze setup sweepers like Nasty Plot Uxie and Porygon-Z. However, Copperajah's biggest problem is the lack of reliable recovery, making it a lot harder to consistently switch into special wallbreakers that have STAB attacks that it doesn't resist like Inteleon and Toxtricity. Copperajah also struggles to break through physical walls like Vileplume, Vaporeon, and Milotic, as they can tank its attacks and threaten it back with status. Knock Off allows Copperajah to target item-reliant foes like Rotom-H, Kilowattrel, and Incineroar. For its last move, Copperajah commonly runs Whirlwind, allowing it to phaze bulky setup sweepers like Calm Mind Cresselia and Sylveon. Alternatively, Protect allows Copperajah to scout out Choice item attackers like Flygon, Mienshao, and Munkidori and gives it more Leftovers recovery. Earthquake hits Fire- and Poison-types like Chandelure and Galarian Slowbro and Steel-types like Registeel, Klefki, and opposing Copperajah. The Speed investment allows Copperajah to outpace Bronzong. Tera Dragon gives Copperajah a useful resistance to Fire-type attacks from foes like Chandelure and Rotom-H, while Tera Fairy gives it a better matchup against Flygon and Fighting-types like Mienshao and Breloom. Wish passers like Vaporeon and Sylveon provide massive recovery for Copperajah, letting it repeatedly switch into foes like Munkidori and Porygon-Z. Copperajah best synergizes with physical walls like Galarian Slowbro, Vileplume, and Vaporeon, as they can handle physical wallbreakers like Toxicroak, Paldean Tauros-W, and Basculegion-M. In return, Copperajah checks special wallbreakers like Munkidori, Kilowattrel, and Dragalge. Copperajah is forced out by Fire-types like Chandelure and Hisuian Typhlosion, as they can destroy it with their Fire-type attacks. Thus, it pairs well with Water- and Dragon-types like Vaporeon, Dragalge, and Goodra to check them. Copperajah appreciates Fairy- and Psychic-types like Sylveon, Cresselia, and Diancie, as they can handle foes like Heracross, Flygon, and Incineroar. Wallbreakers such as Flygon, Overqwil, and Paldean Tauros-W appreciate Copperajah's strength, since unlike other Steel-types such as Bronzong, Klefki, and Registeel, it can wear down physical walls like Gligar, Galarian Slowbro, and Swampert. An Assault Vest set with an EV spread of 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe and an Adamant nature lets Copperajah outspeed foes like Registeel and Dragalge, tank hits from Porygon-Z and Kilowattrel, and be a menacing wallbreaker. Play Rough hits Fighting- and Dark-types like Mienshao, Breloom, and Wo-Chien, but it's rarely used. Supercell Slam targets bulky Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Tentacruel. However, Copperajah struggles to fit it, and Supercell Slam's risk of recoil damage makes it very niche. Tera Water lets Copperajah better handle Ground- and Water-types like Flygon and Inteleon, but Tera Dragon is preferred for not giving it a weakness to Grass- and Electric-type attacks from Breloom and Kilowattrel. Tera Ghost gives Copperajah a useful immunity to Fighting-type attacks from foes like Mienshao and Toxicroak while spinblocking Tsareena and Brambleghast. However, these Pokemon usually can then proceed to hit it with super effective attacks like Knock Off and Poltergeist.
Necrozma (SM competitive strategy): With solid stats across the board backed up by Prism Armor, a lethal signature move in Photon Geyser, Calm Mind to boost its high Special Attack, and Heat Wave to nail Steel-types, Necrozma is a premier wallbreaker in RU. Its flagship set, the Calm Mind sweeper, is capable of punching large holes early-game and can blow past teams once its checks have been sufficiently dealt with. Necrozma is also capable of running an offensive Stealth Rock set that capitalizes on its great matchups against Donphan and every offensive Defogger in the tier, and it has methods of circumventing the entry hazard removers it can struggle against, such as Psychium Z for Mega Blastoise and Toxic for Mandibuzz. However, the Stealth Rock set faces competition from Metagross, which has a Steel / Psychic typing and an incredible physical movepool, and Nidoqueen, which can threaten a wider variety of Pokemon with its powerful STAB and coverage moves. Necrozma's base Speed of 79 is great, allowing it to get the jump on Mega Blastoise and Nidoqueen, but being unable to outspeed Drapion, Gardevoir, and Goodra can be problematic at times. Necrozma faces competition as a Psychic-type Calm Mind user with Sigilyph and Espeon, which can't be hit by Toxic, and Cresselia, which is weaker but far bulkier. However, Necrozma's great combination of power, bulk, and Speed make it more well-rounded than these options, so it is the primary choice for teams looking for a Psychic-type Calm Mind user. Photon Geyser is Necrozma's primary STAB move, dealing massive damage to any foe not resistant or immune to it after a boost. It also bypasses abilities, most notably OHKOing standard Donphan through Sturdy at +1. Heat Wave hits Steel-types that resist Photon Geyser, notably Forretress, Bronzong, Registeel, and Metagross. Calm Mind beefs up Necrozma's Special Defense and jacks up the power of Photon Geyser to incredible levels. Moonlight is used to let Necrozma stay healthy and set up multiple Calm Mind boosts against special attackers or weak physical attackers that can't 2HKO it. A Timid nature is preferred to outspeed threats such as Mega Blastoise, Nidoqueen, Bewear, and Machamp. Firium Z powers up Heat Wave into a one-time Inferno Overdrive to blow past Steel-types that could otherwise take a hit and use Toxic on Necrozma. It also has the nice property of not being able to be removed by Knock Off, meaning Necrozma won't take additional damage from the move as it attempts to set up. Psychium Z can also be used to turn Photon Geyser into Shattered Psyche to blow past dedicated special walls like Florges, but Necrozma gives up the Steel-melting prowess of Firium Z. Prism Armor is Necrozma's only ability and eases its setup against Pokemon with super effective coverage like Mega Blastoise. It also notably allows Necrozma to survive Insect Plate Golisopod's First Impression from full HP and OHKO it back after a boost. Necrozma can be brought in against Pokemon that it can force out, such as Roserade, Nidoqueen, Noivern, and Raikou, and proceed to set up Calm Mind. Double switching to bring it in can also be effective to preserve Necrozma's health. Necrozma can either be used early-game to set up and break holes in the opposing team or be preserved until mid- or late-game to set up and sweep once its checks have been weakened or removed. Moonlight and Photon Geyser only have 8 PP each, so they should only be used when necessary to heal or secure KOs. Heat Wave is a safe move to throw out that doesn't burn down the PP of Photon Geyser and can be powered up into Inferno Overdrive to beat Pokemon that could otherwise take Heat Wave or Photon Geyser and use Toxic on Necrozma in return, namely Steel-types like Metagross, Registeel, and Bronzong. Opposing Toxic users should be weakened to the point where Necrozma can easily remove them with one of its attacks. As Necrozma struggles against Dark-types, Pokemon that can handle them like Fairy- and Fighting-types work well with it. Florges can provide cleric support and threaten Mandibuzz, Honchkrow, and Houndoom with Moonblast. Florges also appreciates Necrozma's ability to handle Steel-types. Hariyama can take on Houndoom comfortably as well. Pokemon that can threaten bulky Psychic-types such as Slowbro, Cresselia, and opposing Necrozma, like Golisopod and Escavalier, make for good teammates. Alternatively, teammates that can use Toxic on them to whittle their health away work as well. Necrozma appreciates entry hazard support in order to put checks like Florges and Snorlax into KO range, so Stealth Rock and Spikes support from the likes of Nidoqueen, Registeel, and Roserade is welcome. Pokemon that appreciate Steel-, Fighting-, and Poison-types removed, such as Mega Sceptile, Snorlax, and Shaymin, greatly appreciate Necrozma's ability to deal with them. Noivern is a great partner because of its ability to scare off Golisopod as well as bring Necrozma in with a U-turn. Photon Geyser serves as Necrozma's obligatory STAB move, giving it a way of dealing good damage against most neutral targets outside of dedicated special walls. Heat Wave is nigh-essential coverage to not be walled by Steel-types like Metagross and Forretress. However, if said Steel-types can be comfortably handled by Necrozma's team, Knock Off can be run over it to soften them up. Moonlight lets Necrozma stay healthy against potential entry hazard removers that cannot 2HKO it so it can continue to lay Stealth Rock against their team. Power Gem can also be used for a stronger immediate hit on Mandibuzz and Houndoom, both of which can beat Necrozma otherwise. If more PP for healing is desired, Recycle can be substituted in over Moonlight at the cost of being somewhat less reliable. A Timid nature is preferred to outspeed Mega Blastoise and Nidoqueen. Psychium Z is used to land significant damage on entry hazard removers like Mega Blastoise, as well as providing a stronger hit to break through neutral targets that might otherwise survive a Photon Geyser, like maximum HP Donphan, Defog Flygon, and Noivern. If Moonlight is not being used, Wiki Berry can instead be run to give Necrozma a one-time restoration of its health. However, Wiki Berry is mandatory if running Recycle. Early- or mid-game is where this variant of Necrozma shines, being able to dent opposing Pokemon with its STAB and coverage moves as well as set up Stealth Rock. Bring Necrozma in on Pokemon that don't directly threaten it like Gardevoir, Roserade, and Virizion, and set Stealth Rock. Necrozma can use Toxic against walls it can't directly threaten, so don't be afraid to throw out the move liberally and catch switch-ins like Slowbro off guard. Keeping Necrozma away from Toxic is paramount, as bad poison damage slices into its longevity and can force it to use its Berry or burn Moonlight's PP unnecessarily. If Necrozma is carrying Wiki Berry instead of Psychium Z, keep it away from Pokemon that commonly carry Knock Off. Pokemon that are weak to Fighting like Tyrantrum and Curse Snorlax appreciate Necrozma's ability to scare away Machamp, Bewear, and Virizion; the latter is an especially notable teammate to partner with this Necrozma, as it greatly appreciates both Fighting-types being dealt with and Stealth Rock being set up to bolster its sweep. In return, Snorlax can switch into Toxic for Necrozma if it's a Rest or Immunity variant. Necrozma struggles to break through Dark-types and is highly susceptible to their attacks. Machamp, Virizion, and Bewear work well as teammates to break down these Pokemon. They can also pressure Registeel and Bronzong, which are bulky enough to take even boosted Heat Wave and use Toxic on Necrozma back. Setup sweepers such as Raikou, Barbaracle, and Toxicroak appreciate Stealth Rock being up and fit well on the balanced offense teams this set often finds itself on. Roserade makes for an excellent partner as well, as it is able to set up Spikes to add to Necrozma's offensive pressure and enjoys Steel-types being weakened or removed. A bulky EV spread utilizing greater investment in defenses with Toxic and Knock Off can be used, as this set can be difficult for many teams to play around, albeit at the cost of much wallbreaking power. A physically based Swords Dance set with Buginium Z can be used to surprise the bulky Psychic-types that check most Necrozma, like Cresselia and Slowbro, but falls short in practice due to how easily it can be walled by Mandibuzz. An EV spread of 172 HP / 84 SpA / 252 Spe with a Timid nature can be used to survive a Choice Band Golisopod's First Impression from full HP while retaining the aforementioned Speed benchmarks at the cost of some power. If said Speed benchmarks are unnecessary, an alternate EV spread of 252 HP / 252 SpA / 4 SpD with a Modest nature can be used. A spread of maximum HP and maximum Speed can also be used to combine greater bulk and the ability to outpace sub-base 79 Speed Pokemon, but the drop in power is noticeable. The Calm Mind set can run Power Gem over Moonlight on more fast-paced offense that can't afford to be stopped by Mandibuzz or Houndoom, but the lack of recovery seriously hurts Necrozma, as a Z-Crystal is needed for wallbreaking, so pinch Berries can't be used. Calm Mind or Toxic can be used over Moonlight on the Stealth Rock set to put more pressure on bulky walls, but forgoing Moonlight can cause Necrozma to be stretched too thinly at times. Protect can be used to scout for Choice-locked revenge killers and coverage moves and to avoid being hit by Golisopod's First Impression, but Necrozma usually cannot afford to drop one of its other moves.
Necrozma (SS competitive strategy): Necrozma is a solid sweeper in UU thanks to its offensive versatility, allowing it to bypass traditional answers like Chansey and Celesteela with its unpredictability. Its Dragon Dance set is a strong sweeper, powering through metagame staples like Slowking and Amoonguss. On the other hand, its Meteor Beam set is equally as potent, allowing it to lure in and slam answers to the Dragon Dance set like Celesteela and Mandibuzz. Its Calm Mind set can utilize its high bulk to act as a sweeper while also blanket checking threats like Scizor. Necrozma's high natural bulk and Prism Armor allow it to set up on many Pokemon like Nihilego and take super effective hits from threats like Cobalion and Scizor. Necrozma also has a solid matchup against common entry hazard removers like Salamence and Tentacruel, letting it act as an offensive Stealth Rock setter capable of supporting its team. However, Necrozma heavily dislikes status from threats like Chansey and Hippowdon, which limits its chance to sweep. Necrozma is also limited by the number of Dark-types in the tier like Zarude, Mandibuzz, and Hydreigon, which can all hinder at least one of its sets. Overreliance on Power Herb on Necrozma's Meteor Beam set makes it hard to pull off a sweep at times with Pokemon like Hydreigon and Slowking being common, while the Dragon Dance set can be worn down it accumulates multiple boosts. Dragon Dance boosts Necrozma's Attack to incredible levels, letting it power through Pokemon like Hippowdon, Primarina, and Chansey. X-Scissor OHKOes Zarude and deals great damage to Hydreigon, Slowking, and Tangrowth. Heat Wave prevents Steel-types like Celesteela, Scizor, and Skarmory from walling Necrozma. With a Lum Berry, Necrozma can set up on Pokemon like Amoonguss, Rotom-W, and Slowking, which would normally stay in to cripple it with status. Alternatively, since Prism Armor lets Necrozma take weak super effective hits like Knock Off from Nihilego with ease, Necrozma can employ a Weakness Policy to get a huge boost to its Attack. Naughty is the preferred nature, since Necrozma outspeeds the entire unboosted metagame barring Choice Scarf users like Hydreigon after a Dragon Dance and prefers to not lower its Special Attack to boost the power of Heat Wave. Necrozma best fits on offense teams as a late-game cleaner once its answers have been removed. Celesteela is problematic for this particular set, so powerful wallbreakers like Thundurus-T can remove it. Thundurus-T also beats Mandibuzz and helps wear down walls like Hippowdon and Primarina for Necrozma to bypass them more easily. Sticky Web support from Ribombee help offset Necrozma's average Speed tier, allowing it to outspeed Choice Scarf users like Zarude after a Dragon Dance. Stealth Rock support from Pokemon like Excadrill and Cobalion wears down Pokemon like Celesteela and Hatterene. Dark-type checks like the aformentioned Cobalion, Primarina, and Azumarill make great partners for Necrozma, beating threats like Umbreon and Hydreigon. In conjunction with Power Herb, Meteor Beam is a powerful attack capable of wiping out Pokemon like Salamence, Mandibuzz, and Thundurus-T while simultaneously giving Necrozma a boost to its Special Attack in one turn. Since Power Herb is single use, it should be saved until special walls like Chansey and Slowking are gone. Photon Geyser is Necrozma's primary move to power through many Pokemon like Keldeo and Amoonguss. It is also able to ignore abilities like Quagsire's Unaware. Heat Wave melts Steel-types like Scizor and Jirachi as well as Grass-types like Zarude and Tangrowth. It is also Necrozma's most reliable option for damaging Hatterene. Autotomize lets Necrozma boost its Speed to outpace threats like Zarude and Choice Scarf Diggersby. Alternatively, Necrozma can utilize Stealth Rock to act as an entry hazard setter for its team thanks to its good matchup against common entry hazard removers like Salamence and Rotom-H. Modest is the preferred nature to maximize damage output, since after an Autotomize, Necrozma outspeeds the fastest Choice Scarf users. Even if Stealth Rock is chosen, Modest is still preferred, since Necrozma doesn't miss out on many important Speed tiers. This set also fits on offense teams as a powerful late-game sweeper. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Excadrill wears down Pokemon like Celesteela and Hatterene for Necrozma to break through them more easily and allows Necrozma to drop Stealth Rock for Autotomize. Excadrill can also beat special walls like Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro and cripple Slowking and Mandibuzz with Toxic. Early-game wallbreakers like Belly Drum Azumarill, Swords Dance Scizor, and Nasty Plot Thundurus-T can muscle through special walls like Chansey and Slowking for Necrozma. Cobalion can bring in Necrozma on Pokemon it can set up on like Amoonguss while also threatening Umbreon, Hydreigon, and Chansey for Necrozma. Sticky Web support from Ribombee help offset Necrozma's average Speed tier, allowing it to forego Autotomize for Stealth Rock if the team needs to as well as outspeed and remove threats like Keldeo and Raikou. Necrozma can set up with Calm Mind against Pokemon that cannot OHKO it like Thundurus-T and Nihilego, making it harder to bypass with by special attacking threats such as Primarina and Salamence as well as become more threatening to Hippowdon. Heat Wave provides crucial coverage against Steel-types like Celesteela and Scizor. It is also Necrozma's best option to damage Dark-types like Zarude and Mandibuzz. Moonlight allows Necrozma to sustain itself throughout a match, although its limited PP means it should be used conservatively. Colbur Berry allows Necrozma to take Dark-type attacks from Pokemon like Scizor and Zarude and retaliate with a powerful attack. Leftovers is an alternative option that lets Necrozma preserve more longevity as it tries setting up. Even if Necrozma's Colbur Berry gets used up, the given HP and Defense EVs allow it to avoid the 2HKO from Zarude's Darkest Lariat as well as other attacks like Choice Band Zygarde-10%'s Thousdand Arrows. 28 Speed EVs let Necrozma outspeed Skarmory, with the rest put into Special Attack to boost its damage output. This set best fits on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate Necrozma acting as a late-game sweeper. Dark-types like Hydreigon and Mandibuzz are problematic for this set, so wallbreakers like Cobalion and Azumarill can remove them. They both also threaten Chansey and overwhelm Slowking. Togekiss also counters these Dark-types and can rid Necrozma of status with Heal Bell. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Nihilego and the aforementioned Cobalion wears down threats like Hydreigon and Primarina. Similarly, entry hazard removers like Salamence, Rotom-W, and Tentacruel are great for keeping Necrozma from getting worn down, allowing it to conserve Moonlight PP when absolutely needed. Tentacruel can remove items from threats like Chansey with Knock Off and check Celesteela, while Salamence handles Zarude. Pivots like the previously mentioned Rotom-W and Zarude can bring Necrozma in against Pokemon it can set up on like Amoonguss, Tangrowth, and Scizor. They both also can shut down Hippowdon. Choice Scarf Hydreigon can revenge kill faster threats to Necrozma like Zarude as well as check Slowking. Assault Vest Tangrowth can serve as a great defensive pivot for Necrozma, switching in on powerful wallbreakers like Keldeo and Primarina. Necrozma can run Expanding Force over Photon Geyser on its Meteor Beam set on Psychic Terrain teams for more devastating damage, but the limited viability of the playstyle and reliance on Terrain being active make Photon Geyser the preferred option. A final option is a Stored Power set with Cosmic Power or Calm Mind to boost Necrozma's stats, but it lacks the dangerous immediate sweeping potential of Necrozma's other sets and can be inconsistent at times.
Necrozma (SV competitive strategy): Necrozma is a decent Psychic-type Pokemon that has unique set diversity, capable of running a plethora of coverage and utility moves. Stealth Rock Necrozma is a notable lead for offensive structures, as it can break through a lot of balance staples that other leads like Kleavor and Terrakion might struggle against, like Hippowdon, Hisuian Goodra, Jirachi, and Chesnaught. Necrozma has solid natural bulk that is amplified by Prism Armor, minimizing the damage taken from U-turn and Sucker Punch from threats like Galarian Zapdos and Bisharp. Dragon Dance and Calm Mind variants can pick what coverage attacks they need, like Earthquake, Knock Off, Earth Power, and Heat Wave, with Calm Mind sets generally running Moonlight to give Necrozma reliable recovery to stick around after setting up. Necrozma does often struggle to find a slot on teams given the bevy of Psychic-types in the tier it competes with, like Jirachi, Reuniclus, and Slowbro, though it has exceptional offensive capabilities on structures that the other Psychic-types lack like ways to hit Steel-types consistently. While Necrozma is not exactly lacking in Speed, it can be a bit slow at times, failing to outspeed foes that Armarouge and Jirachi do and limiting the number of foes it can KO. Necrozma also struggles to combat the priority in the tier, notably taking super effective damage from Bisharp Sucker Punch and Mimikyu Shadow Sneak. Dragon Dance Necrozma is a strong setup sweeper, making use of its excellent movepool to power through traditional answers like Hisuian Goodra and Umbreon. Photon Geyser allows Necrozma to break through Unaware Pokemon like Quagsire trying to wall it and completely disregard Mimikyu's Disguise. Earthquake allows it to hit Steel-types like Empoleon, Hisuian Goodra, and Jirachi for super effective damage. X-Scissor takes care of Dark- and Psychic-types that would otherwise prove difficult for Necrozma to power through such as Krookodile, Umbreon, and Slowbro. Knock Off hits Psychic-types for super effective damage while doubling as item removal on neutral targets like Hippowdon. With a Lum Berry, Necrozma can set up on Pokemon like Talonflame, Body Slam Jirachi, and Scald Slowbro without fear of getting crippled by status. Alternatively, Necrozma's high natural bulk and ability Prism Armor allows it to take weak super effective attacks like Knock Off and U-turn from physically weak pivots like Cyclizar and Talonflame to safely activate its Weakness Policy and get a huge boost to its Attack. Tera Fairy flips Necrozma's weaknesses to Bug- and Dark-type attacks into resistances, which is useful for breaking through common revenge killers like Choice Scarf Mienshao and Bisharp. Tera Electric gives Necrozma an immunity to Thunder Wave and other forms of paralysis and the ability to set up on Jirachi by resisting Iron Head. Tera Fire gives Necrozma a resistance to Bug-type attacks while also giving it an immunity to burn from attacks like Slowbro's Scald and Entei's Sacred Fire and allows it to freely set up on any Pokemon using Will-O-Wisp like Talonflame. Dragon Dance Necrozma best fits on offense teams as a late-game cleaner once its checks have been worn down. Physical walls such as Hippowdon and Slowbro can be problematic for Necrozma, so powerful wallbreakers like Basculegion-F and Armarouge can open the way for it to clean late-game. Fighting-type partners like Mienshao and Galarian Zapdos Wing are great at checking Dark-types like Krookodile and Umbreon that can stop Necrozma from sweeping if not running X-Scissor. Entry hazard support from Pokemon like Chesnaught and Jirachi can help +1 Attack Necrozma pick up KOs more easily on Pokemon like Hisuian Goodra and Krookodile and gives it a potential 2HKO on Slowbro. Even at +1 Speed, Necrozma is outsped by a plethora of Choice Scarf users like Gengar, Krookodile, and Mienshao and is weak to two of the most common priority moves in Mimikyu's Shadow Sneak and Bisharp's Sucker Punch, making speed control and defensive partners that can switch into Pokemon trying to revenge kill very valuable. On the one hand, speed control options like Thunder Wave Slowbro and Body Slam Jirachi can make up for Necrozma's middling Speed by crippling the aforementioned Choice Scarf users that can stop Necrozma from cleaning. On the other hand, physical tanks such as Hippowdon and Amoonguss and special walls like Empoleon switch into the revenge killers while offering utility like entry hazards and Rocky Helmet chip damage. Offensive Stealth Rock Necrozma is a competent entry hazard setter that can output tremendous damage with its choice of strong coverage attacks. Meteor Beam increases Necrozma's power while also threatening to OHKO Pokemon like Talonflame and Noivern. Earth Power gives Necrozma the coverage to break through Steel-types like Empoleon, Hisuian Goodra, and Jirachi. Power Herb doubles as a one-turn solution to Meteor Beam and a way to remove Necrozma's item, weakening Knock Off from Pokemon like Cyclizar, Krookodile, and Galarian Zapdos. This makes Necrozma notable, as it is a Psychic-type that is able to mitigate damage taken by Knock Off. Prism Armor is a great ability, making super effective hits much easier to take as Necrozma establishes entry hazards and racks up damage. Tera Ghost prevents Rapid Spin Cyclizar from removing hazards and weakens Bug-type attacks like U-turn from Mienshao and Galarian Zapdos. Offensive teams use Necrozma as a Stealth Rock lead to capitalize on its unique offensive profile and get an early advantage over balance and bulky offense structures, hitting staples like Cyclizar, Hippowdon, and Jirachi for enough damage to ensure Stealth Rock goes up. Other Stealth Rock leads like Kleavor and Terrakion have limited options and are handled by many balance staples like Chesnaught, Jirachi, and Hippowdon, while Necrozma can run multiple sets and has great coverage, letting it threaten a majority of the metagame, including common defensive staples. Necrozma's ability to immediately output damage and get a boost to Special Attack with Meteor Beam makes would-be checks like Empoleon, Hisuian Goodra, and Jirachi susceptible to getting taken out by a boosted Earth Power, as well as threatening Assault Vest Cyclizar enough to ensure Stealth Rock set by Necrozma stay up. Teammates that appreciate these bulky Steel-types and specially defensive walls being worn down, like Armarouge and Choice Scarf Gardevoir, all thrive when they're able to set up and clean late-game, especially with Stealth Rock support. Similarly, physical sweepers like Maushold and Gyarados notably appreciate Jirachi being worn down, as they can struggle to beat Jirachi, since it threatens to use Encore to disrupt setup attempts or paralyze with Body Slam. Calm Mind Necrozma is a viable mid-game wallbreaker and late-game cleaner, capable of hitting most of the metagame for massive damage after just one setup turn. Offensive Trick Room Necrozma is a notable anti-offense tool that can claim multiple KOs in a game by taking advantage of faster threats being relatively frail and susceptible to being OHKOed by many of its attacks. Weakness Policy similarly takes advantage of Necrozma's natural bulk and typing to boost on Knock Off and U-turn attempts, usually from physically weak Pokemon like Cyclizar and Talonflame that otherwise don't threaten it.
Armarouge (SV competitive strategy): The incredible power of Armor Cannon makes Armarouge a terrifying foe in the RU tier, often threatening a KO whenever it enters the field. With its excellent STAB combination that hits most of the metagame, Weak Armor that constantly deters weak physical moves like U-turn and Rapid Spin, and the physical bulk to make use of it, Armarouge can serve as both a wallbreaker and sweeper simultaneously. Armarouge is unique among the Psychic-types in the tier due to its ability to threaten Steel-types like Jirachi, Magnezone, and Registeel with Armor Cannon. Armarouge's drawbacks, however, are evident; its Speed is lower than much of the tier, allowing many Pokemon like Basculegion-F and Gengar to outspeed it prior to Weak Armor's activation, and its ability to take special attacks is poor. Its weakness to Stealth Rock and the combined Defense drops from both Weak Armor and Armor Cannon can cause damage to add up quickly, resulting in Armarouge being unable to survive subsequent attacks from revenge killers and bulky Pokemon. Armarouge is a devastating special attacker, capable of breaking holes in teams or taking advantage of opposing physical attackers to boost its Speed with Weak Armor in order to sweep. Armarouge particularly excels against Cyclizar, the most common form of entry hazard removal in the tier, due to the minimal damage received and the fact that most of Cyclizar's moves will activate Weak Armor. Psyshock targets the weaker Defense of opposing Pokemon such as Chansey and Assault Vest Cyclizar. Energy Ball is used to hit Water-types with high Defense like Slowbro and Suicune. Tera Fairy provides a valuable resistance to Bisharp's Sucker Punch, as well as allowing Armarouge to shrug off Knock Off from Krookodile, Mienshao, and Cyclizar. Tera Fairy also grants an immunity to Cyclizar's Dragon Tail, preventing Armarouge from being phazed out. Tera Grass grants resistances to Barraskewda's and Crawdaunt's Aqua Jet, Empoleon's Surf, and Krookodile's Earthquake. This also boosts the damage of Energy Ball, allowing Armarouge to threaten OHKOs on Krookodile and Terrakion. Calm Mind Armarouge is most comfortable on balance and offense teams, where it can use its wallbreaking ability to open up holes for its team to exploit or threaten a late-game sweep. Pivot support from VoltTurn users such as Cyclizar, Magnezone, and Jirachi are important to get Armarouge into favorable matchups against Pokemon like Forretress and Amoonguss while preserving its HP. These Pokemon can also bait out weak Knock Off from Cyclizar and Reuniclus, easily allowing Weak Armor to activate. Mienshao and Terrakion invite physical walls like Cresselia, Quagsire, and Slowbro in, which Armarouge can take advantage of. Opposing special attackers like Gengar, Choice Scarf Basculegion-F, and Noivern outspeed and threaten Armarouge, so allies like Cyclizar, Hisuian Goodra, and Jirachi, respectively, can switch into their attacks for it. Priority moves are one of the most reliable answers to Armarouge after Weak Armor activates, so pairing it with Psychic Surge Indeedee can nullify this weakness with the added benefit of empowering its Psychic-type moves. Weakness Policy Armarouge is a naturally potent wallbreaker and sweeper that can immediately chunk holes in the opposing team thanks to its excellent STAB combination and decent bulk. Armarouge can use the combination of Endure and Weakness Policy to flip situations around at the drop of a hat and threaten a devastating sweep. Armor Cannon is the centerpiece of Armarouge's arsenal as a wallbreaker due to its high Base Power and its drawbacks made negligible by having Endure as an option. Psyshock is consistently powerful and can deal with specially defensive Pokemon like Assault Vest Cyclizar. Stored Power can deal incredible amounts of damage after a Weakness Policy and Weak Armor activation, with the drawback of initially being very weak. Expanding Force is an option on Psychic Terrain teams that can OHKO most non-resistant foes in the tier while Psychic Terrain is active and is still a decently powerful attack otherwise. Energy Ball provides Armarouge with coverage that is essential for dealing with Water-types such as Slowbro and Suicune. Calm Mind is an optional setup move that allows Armarouge to capitalize on Pokemon that cannot deal much damage to it, like Cyclizar, Registeel, and Gardevoir, and keeps it from being dependent on Weakness Policy for strengthening its attacks. Weak Armor allows Armarouge to outspeed a massive portion of the tier after surviving a physical attack, thus enabling it to act as an excellent late-game cleaner. A Timid nature ensures that Armarouge outspeeds even the fastest Choice Scarf users in the tier, such as Terrakion and Gengar, at +2 Speed. Tera Normal can be used to turn the tables on a Ghost-type revenge killer like Gengar or Mimikyu. Tera Psychic boosts the damage of Armarouge's strong Psychic-type attacks even further and is particularly useful in Psychic Terrain. Tera Ground makes Armarouge immune to Sandstorm damage and also lets it deny Thunder Wave and Electric-type moves from Pokemon such as Magnezone and Reuniclus, which gives it time to either setup further or pick up a KO. Weakness Policy Armarouge fits well on hyper offense and offensive structures that appreciate a safety net that can revenge kill a Choice item user such as Mienshao or Krookodile if needed and possibly sweep in return. Armarouge can also cover the role of a wallbreaker and cleaner on balance structures that aim to gradually chip away at the opposing team due to its innate firepower and ability to quickly boost its Speed. Armarouge synergizes particularly well with Psychic Terrain and thus partners well with lead Psychic Surge Indeedee; not only does Psychic Terrain power up Armarouge's Psychic-type STAB attacks to unstoppable levels, it also stops Armarouge from being revenge killed with a priority move, which is often its biggest worry after a successful Endure. Armarouge often finds its itself lacking meaningful ways to deal with specially defensive walls such as Alolan Muk, Umbreon, and Hisuian Goodra and therefore benefits from strong physical sweepers such as Swords Dance Terrakion and Bisharp as well as wallbreakers such as Crawdaunt, as they can help to remove or deal large chunks of damage to Armarouge's checks. Armarouge benefits from hazard removal options such as Tidy Up Maushold and Rapid Spin Cyclizar, as they can prevent it from losing its health to entry hazard chip, thus keeping it from being dependent on Endure for surviving attacks. Armarouge works well with fast pivots such as Choice Scarf Jirachi and Cyclizar that can bait a Knock Off from weak physical attackers such as Cyclizar, Hisuian Goodra, and Chesnaught and use it against them to threaten a devastating sweep by activating Weakness Policy. Meteor Beam, alongside a Power Herb, can compress setup with a coverage option to hit opposing Armarouge and Noivern into a single moveslot, with the drawback that this combination effectively limits Armarouge to three moveslots for the remainder of the game. Armarouge can effectively use Choice Specs for immediate power that can OHKO Cyclizar with Psyshock after Stealth Rock and 2HKO specially defensive Empoleon with Armor Cannon; it additionally allows Armarouge to use Trick to cripple the few walls that are able to switch into its attacks. Flash Fire can be used with Choice Specs, enabling absolutely nuclear Armor Cannons if positioned correctly, but using Flash Fire means that Gardevoir can Trace it to become immune, and Speed will remain an issue without Weak Armor. Iron Defense can offset the penalty of Weak Armor and give Armarouge the additional bulk to set up Calm Minds or activate Weakness Policy from powerful attacks like Crawdaunt's and Krookodile's Knock Off, all while further boosting Stored Power. Focus Blast can be used to hit opposing special walls like Hisuian Goodra and Umbreon, but dropping Energy Ball leaves Armarouge weaker against Water-types like Slowbro. Destiny Bond allows Armarouge to get a surprise KO on a Pokemon that is bulky enough to survive its hits.
Bombirdier (SV competitive strategy): Bombirdier is one of PU's best offensive pivots and Knock Off spreaders thanks to its great offensive typing, spammable STAB moves, wide variety of utility options, and a great defensive profile allowing it to take advantage of Pokemon like Decidueye, Golurk, and Gastrodon. Sucker Punch allows Bombirdier to pick off weakened faster threats and setup sweepers such as Choice Scarf Staraptor, Delphox, and Toxtricity. Bombirdier has a wide variety of options in its final slot; Taunt allows Bombirdier to deny setup attempts from Pokemon like Arcanine and Scream Tail, hazard-setting attempts from Mudsdale and Gligar, Defog from Altaria, and recovery attempts from Pokemon like the beforementioned Altaria, Milotic, and Palossand. Stealth Rock allows Bombirdier to support its team with entry hazards and allows it to free up a moveslot for teammates like Alolan Sandslash and Gastrodon. Roost allows Bombirdier to capitalize on the switches it forces on Pokemon like Bronzong and Decidueye and recover off damage and Brave Bird recoil. U-turn or Parting Shot allows Bombirdier to safely pivot into teammates, but both moves can be hard to fit over other options. Tera Dark boosts the power of Knock Off and Sucker Punch, allowing Bombirdier to achieve rolls such as OHKOing Bronzong and Toxtricity with minimal chip and 2HKOing Altaria while also removing its weakness to Electric- and Rock-type attacks, which is valuable against Pokemon like Kilowattrel and Minior. Bombirdier finds itself on a wide variety of teams ranging from bulky balance to hyper offense. Although it resists Knock Off, Bombirdier appreciates fellow Dark-resistant Pokemon such as Scrafty and Paldean Tauros-F that can switch into Knock Off for it, as Bombirdier requires Heavy-Duty Boots to be an effective pivot. Bombirdier's ability to take out walls like Galarian Slowbro, Gastrodon, and Wo-Chien allows for Pokemon checked by these threats such as Calm Mind Florges, Tatsugiri, and Decidueye to become much more potent offensive threats. Bombirdier struggles with bulkier walls who can cripple it with status like Bellibolt and Coalossal, so Pokemon who can check these threats like Mudsdale, Goodra, and Tatsugiri make good partners. While it is immune to Ground-type attacks, Bombirdier should be paired with other Pokemon that resist Ground such as Decidueye and Bronzong because it cannot reliably take on Ground-types such as Gligar and Mudsdale on its own.
Brambleghast (SV competitive strategy): Brambleghast is a premier Rapid Spin user in NU thanks to its high-Base Power STAB moves, typing that lets it beat common entry hazard setters like Swampert, Diancie, and Bronzong one-on-one, and solid Speed. Brambleghast's useful Wind Rider ability lets it block a possible Hurricane from Kilowattrel and Tornadus. Additionally, Brambleghast is a great wallbreaker, since not many Pokemon can take both of its STAB attacks. Choice Band makes Brambleghast into a dangerous threat, as defensive foes like Amoonguss and Tsareena get 2HKOed by Poltergeist on the switch. However, Brambleghast's poor bulk makes it poor at checking wallbreakers like Heracross, Flygon, and Paldean Tauros-W, as they can threaten it with a 2HKO from their coverage or Choice Band-boosted attacks, forcing Brambleghast to constantly use Strength Sap. Additionally, Brambleghast's typing leaves it weak to common Dark- and Fire-types like Alolan Muk, Incineroar, and Chandelure. While Brambleghast does have good Speed, it's still outsped and revenge killed by foes like Inteleon and Munkidori or by priority attacks like Sucker Punch Toxicroak and Shadow Sneak Alolan Muk. Strength Sap lets Brambleghast check physical wallbreakers like Flygon, Paldean Tauros-W, and Breloom. However, Spikes can be used instead, letting Brambleghast become a solid entry hazard setter. Alternatively, Shadow Sneak lets it revenge kill weakened foes like Flygon, Munkidori, and Infernape. Heavy-Duty Boots lets Brambleghast ignore entry hazards, meaning it can more reliably remove them, while Colbur Berry lets it tank Dark-type attacks such as Infernape's Knock Off and Toxicroak's Sucker Punch, letting Brambleghast use Strength Sap on them or hit them back with its STAB attacks. Brambleghast can run a defensive set with an EV spread of 252 HP / 80 Def / 176 Spe and a Jolly nature on utility sets, as it lets Brambleghast better handle physical wallbreakers like Paldean Tauros-W, Flygon, and Breloom while letting it outspeed base 80 Speed Pokemon like Chandelure. Tera Fairy provides a Dark resistance while not throwing away its matchup into Fighting-types and Flygon. Alternatively, Tera Ghost gives both Poltergeist and Shadow Sneak a power boost, letting it 2HKO foes like Amoonguss, Dragalge, and Copperajah with the former. Fighting-types like Infernape, Toxicroak, and Heracross are great partners for Brambleghast, as they can check Dark-types like Incineroar, Scrafty, and Wo-Chien; in return, Brambleghast pressures Ghost- and bulky Psychic-types like Chandelure, Uxie, and Galarian Slowbro. Incineroar is an exceptionally great partner for Brambleghast due to how it beats Grass-, Steel-, and Dark-types for Brambleghast, and in return, Brambleghast can check Fighting-, Ground-, and Water-types for Incineroar. Fire-types like Choice Scarf Chandelure and Infernape outspeed Brambleghast and destroy it with their STAB attacks. Thus, it best pairs with bulky Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Tentacruel to check the aforementioned Fire-types. Faster Pokemon like Flygon, Infernape, and Kilowattrel can easily revenge kill Brambleghast, so it synergizes well with defensive tanks like Sylveon, Galarian Slowbro, and Diancie that check them. Brambleghast appreciates special wallbreakers like Munkidori, Inteleon, and Kilowattrel for handling physical walls like Vileplume and Avalugg. Brambleghast can spinblock for hazard setters like Bronzong, Klefki, and Swampert. Stealth Rock-weak Pokemon like Chandelure, Hisuian Typhlosion, and Staraptor that won't have Heavy-Duty Boots appreciate Brambleghast for its hazard removal. Choice Band allows Brambleghast to 2HKO Amoonguss with Poltergeist and OHKO Vaporeon with Power Whip. Shadow Sneak lets Brambleghast pick off weakened foes like Flygon and Breloom. Tera Blast Ghost is a good alternative to Poltergeist, as it neither requires the foe to have an item nor can it miss. Tera Blast Ground could be used to hit common walls like Incineroar and Alolan Muk, but because Brambleghast needs to Terastallize for it to work and it almost always prefers a reliable Ghost-type STAB move, it isn't run. Ground-types like Flygon, Gligar, and Swampert appreciate Brambleghast for checking Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Paldean Tauros-W; in return, they can handle Fire-types like Incineroar and Chandelure. Brambleghast appreciates Fighting-types like Toxicroak and Heracross for checking Dark-types like Incineroar and Overqwil. Physical walls like Amoonguss, Avalugg, and Tera Fairy Galarian Slowbro can tank many of Brambleghast's attacks very well, so it best synergize with special wallbreakers like Kilowattrel, Munkidori, and Chandelure to handle the physical walls. Brambleghast partners well with Pokemon like Munkidori, Meloetta, and Incineroar, as they can overwhelm shared checks like opposing Incineroar. Infiltrator lets Brambleghast target Substitute users like Basculegion-M, Flygon, and Paldean Tauros-W and -F. Brambleghast can go itemless, reducing the power of Knock Off from Tsareena and walling opposing Brambleghast. A set with Spikes / Poltergeist / Rapid Spin / Curse and a Focus Sash turns Brambleghast into a solid lead hazard setter, as it can set up Spikes and punish foes like Incineroar with Curse damage. Tera Water gives it a useful resistance against Fire-type attacks, but it makes Brambleghast weak to other Grass-types like Tsareena.
Pyroar (XY competitive strategy): Pyroar has great offensive presence due to its high Special Attack stat and powerful STAB moves. It also sits in a nice Speed tier, being able to outspeed the likes of Jynx and Scyther and Speed tie with Liepard. Furthermore, Pyroar has a decent defensive typing, which allows it to take on Ghost-, Grass-, and Steel-types such as Rotom, Lilligant, and Klinklang. However, Pyroar has an unfortunate weakness to Stealth Rock as well as a vulnerability to other forms of entry hazards, which means it can be worn down very easily. Its dual STAB combination leaves it walled by popular Rock-type Pokemon such as Archeops, Carracosta, and Rhydon, and for an offensive Pokemon, Pyroar has an extremely barren offensive movepool. As a result, Pyroar faces competition from Magmortar, which is much stronger and has a wider offensive movepool. Moreover, Pyroar is weak to common priority moves such as Mach Punch from Hitmonchan and Aqua Jet from Samurott, and its average bulk does not help it at all. Fire Blast is an extremely powerful STAB move that hits any Pokemon that does not resist it for a decent amount of damage. Hyper Voice provides great neutral coverage with Fire Blast, hitting Water- and Fire-types such as Lanturn and Magmortar reasonably hard. Hidden Power Grass rounds off Pyroar's coverage, nailing Rock-types such as Kabutops and Rhydon, which would otherwise wall Pyroar. Will-O-Wisp is used to punish Thick Fat Hariyama, and it also bypasses Sucker Punch users such as Shiftry, Kangaskhan, and Skuntank. Taunt allows Pyroar to halt Calm Mind and Wish users such as Mega Audino and Clefairy while stopping entry hazard users. Flamethrower should be used with Choice Specs and is used as a safer Fire-type STAB move that has 100% accuracy, unlike Fire Blast. Overheat can be used in the last slot for an even stronger STAB move that is useful early on in the game to weaken the opposing team severely. Maximum Special Attack investment is used to give Pyroar as much offensive presence as possible. The maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature is mandatory, as fully invested Pyroar is able to outspeed many pertinent threats such as Scyther and Lilligant. Life Orb is used to amplify Pyroar's attacks, though it comes at the cost of taking recoil damage. Choice Specs can be used over Life Orb for a bigger power boost, granting Pyroar the ability to 2HKO Lanturn after Stealth Rock, and it does not have recoil damage; however, it locks Pyroar into a move. Charcoal can be used to bluff a Choice Specs set to opponents, but it only boosts Pyroar's Fire-type attacks. Unnerve, while situational, is the most useful ability out of the three available, as it can stop foes such as Linoone and Sandslash from using their Sitrus Berry and Lum Berry, respectively. Pyroar is mainly used as a wallbreaker to wear down the opposing team to pave a way for its teammates to clean up late-game. For a majority of the battle, Pyroar should keep using Fire Blast, as it is able to dent the opposing team very hard. If running it, Pyroar can also use Overheat early-game, as Pyroar is a hit-and-run Pokemon most of the time anyway. Because Pyroar has a decent defensive typing, it can pivot into Grass- and Ghost-types with relative ease and hit them hard. However, against Grass-types such as Vileplume and Roselia, it has to be careful of Sludge Bomb, while against Tangela and Lilligant, it has to look out for Sleep Powder. Against Ghost-types such as Rotom, it has to be wary of Thunderbolt, but it can reliably switch into Mismagius and Misdreavus, as they cannot do much against it. Pyroar should not be exposed to any status moves; poison can severely wear it down, especially in tandem with the recoil from Life Orb, while Thunder Wave cuts its Speed. Players can attempt to predict switches to Rock-types such as Rhydon and Carracosta by clicking either Hidden Power Grass to 2HKO them or Will-O-Wisp to cripple them. If using Choice Specs, Pyroar should not recklessly lock itself into Hidden Power Grass, as this gives Klinklang and Lilligant free setup opportunities against it; in general, Pyroar should not use it when there is a setup sweeper on the opponent's team. Grass-types such as Torterra and Shiftry have great defensive synergy with Pyroar, as they resist Ground-type attacks while Pyroar resists Bug-type attacks. Torterra and Shiftry are able to take on Rock- and Water-types for Pyroar easily, while Pyroar deals with the Grass- and Ice-types that they struggle with; Shiftry also has Defog to remove entry hazards, which helps Pyroar a lot. Physical wallbreakers such as Mawile and Kabutops work well with Pyroar, as they can wear down special walls for it. Pokemon that can deal with Rock-types are also greatly appreciated. Poliwrath and Gourgeist have no trouble doing so, being able to switch in with ease and proceed to fire of a Scald or Will-O-Wisp, respectively. Water-types such as Prinplup and Samurott also deals with the Rock-types that Pyroar has trouble with. Prinplup is also able to provide Defog support, while Samurott appreciates Pyroar's ability to weaken Vileplume and Gourgeist-S to ease setup for Samurott. Because Pyroar has some trouble getting a safe switch onto the field, it greatly benefits from a slow U-turn or Volt Switch from the likes of Mesprit and Lanturn. Garbodor in particular works well with Pyroar, as it easily handles Fighting-types such as Hariyama and Hitmonchan while Pyroar handles Ghost-types such as Rotom and Haunter for Garbodor. Garbodor also has the additional benefit of providing Spikes and Toxic Spikes support; two layers of Spikes guarantee the 2HKO on Prinplup with Hyper Voice. Pyroar also appreciates partners such as Xatu and Claydol, which can deter or remove entry hazards with Magic Bounce and Rapid Spin, respectively. A Ground-type such as Sandslash or Rhydon, while it shares a common Water-type weakness with Pyroar, appreciates Pyroar's ability to beat Grass-types; furthermore, the combination of the two Pokemon allows them to completely shut down Rotom by virtue of their typings. A Choice Scarf set can be used to revenge kill a weakened Rhydon or Barbaracle at +2 as well as Quiver Dance users such as Lilligant and Vivillon. Wild Charge can be used to hit Mantine, and to a lesser extent, Pelipper. Endeavor is an unexpected alternative to bring down the foe's health to match Pyroar's. Work Up boosts Pyroar's already high Special Attack, turning it into an even more fearsome wallbreaker. Sleep Talk can be used to absorb Sleep Powders from Lilligant and Lovely Kisses from Jynx.
Pyroar (SM competitive strategy): Despite being the fastest Fire-type NU has to offer, Pyroar has failed to make an impression on the metagame due to its poor non-STAB coverage options and minimal defensive utility. Against Pokemon such as Slowking, Regirock, and Rhydon, Pyroar has to rely on Grassium Z + Solar Beam, whereas other Fire-types have more consistent coverage that can wear down their checks more easily. For reference, Incineroar OHKOes both of them after a Swords Dance boost with either Knock Off or Tectonic Rage, and Magmortar OHKOes defensive Slowking with Thunderbolt-based Gigavolt Havoc, all after Stealth Rock. Bad bulk and a bad defensive typing dissuade it from ever directly switching into anything other than Ghost attacks, whereas Incineroar and Magmortar have Intimidate and a secondary Dark typing for the former and a high Special Defense stat for the latter. We're not lion, Pyroar struggles to distinguish itself from the plethora of other Fire-types NU has to choose from. Pyroar aims to lure in typical Fire-type checks such as Rhydon and Assault Vest Slowking and OHKO them after Stealth Rock, as well as to utilize its unique base 106 Speed tier to outspeed Pokemon such as Mismagius, Cryogonal, and Rotom and OHKO them too. Pyroar should be careful not to waste its all-important Grassium Z, as it heavily relies on said item to break through checks such as Rhydon. Taunt is useful for shutting down non-attacking moves such as Regirock's Stealth Rock, and Breakneck Blitz breaks through Pokemon such as Incineroar and Druddigon it wouldn't be able to get through otherwise. However, Pyroar still struggles to differentiate itself enough from other Fire-types such as Incineroar and Delphox.
Pheromosa (SS competitive strategy): Pheromosa is one of the fastest Pokemon in Ubers, only being outpaced by the niche Regieleki and a few Choice Scarf users. This makes Pheromosa a very good pivot, outspeeding Choice Specs Calyrex-S and having one of the strongest U-turns in the tier. It also has a wide variety of coverage options, making it extremely difficult to switch into. However, Pheromosa is exceptionally frail, with even some resisted hits threatening to OHKO it, and extremely reliant on correct predictions. U-turn lets Pheromosa gain momentum against common switch-ins such as Xerneas and Ho-Oh. Close Combat offers consistent damage, but Low Kick can be run for increased PP and still maintains high Base Power against most of the Pokemon in Ubers. Throat Chop allows Pheromosa to OHKO Calyrex-S and Lunala if Shadow Shield is broken. Triple Axel hits common Dragon- and Ground-types like Eternatus, Zygarde-C, Zekrom, and Groudon and can potentially OHKO lead Slurpuff. Triple Axel's poor accuracy makes it unreliable, though. Wallbreakers that appreciate being brought in with U-turn such as Choice Specs Kyogre and Choice Band Rayquaza are good teammates. Galarian Darmanitan can make a good partner to Pheromosa as another pivoting teammate. Marshadow can be used alongside Pheromosa, as both appreciate each other wearing down shared checks like Xerneas and Ho-Oh. Teammates that can deal with Ho-Oh consistently like Rest Zygarde-C and Kyogre are appreciated, as Ho-Oh will shut down Pheromosa very consistently. Similarly, teammates that can take on opposing Xerneas such as Necrozma-DM and Ho-Oh are appreciated. Xerneas is also a good teammate that answers opposing Marshadow and Giratina-O. Rapid Spin can be used with Heavy-Duty Boots to clear entry hazards, but the lack of power is noticeable. Poison Jab can be used over Throat Chop to hit Xerneas hard, but it removes Pheromosa's niche of revenge killing Calyrex-S.
Simisage (BW competitive strategy): Simisage is an odd wallbreaker due to its mediocre STAB options but powerful and near-perfect coverage options. Combine this great coverage with Simisage's great Speed and an excellent mixed wallbreaker is born. However, Simisage's choice between weak or unreliable STAB options mixed with the fact that some walls like Bronzor wall Simisage regardless means that Simisage's performance can sometimes come up short. Leaf Storm is extremely powerful even without much Special Attack investment, but Giga Drain is also an option if you want a more spammable STAB option that also heals at the cost of a lot of power. Superpower hits Steel-types like Klang super effectively while also hitting specially defensive walls like Audino, Scraggy, and Zweilous for more damage than Leaf Storm can. Acrobatics hits Grass-types like Vileplume that resist the other two moves and gets an additional bonus from Flying Gem. The last move is filler, as the other three moves achieve near-perfect coverage, but Taunt shuts down walls like Bronzor and Audino from using their healing and status moves. Simisage is excellent for breaking through walls like Zweilous and Vileplume, so sweepers like Golduck and Shiftry that are walled by these two love having it around. Simisage does have problems breaking through Bronzor and therefore invites it in a lot, so partners like Scraggy and Monferno that can deal with Bronzor and use it as setup fodder also make for good choices. Simisage also invites in a lot of Fire- and Flying-types, such as Rapidash and Dodrio, so Pokemon like Frillish, Stunfisk, and Klang make for great teammates for Simisage to pivot to.
Simisage (XY competitive strategy): Simisage is a premier offensive Pokemon because of its ability to force switches and wallbreak due to its high Speed, diverse coverage choices, and power. Simisage forces switches due to the threat of Leaf Storm, so Knock Off is used to remove Leftovers and Black Sludge from switch-ins like Gogoat and Dustox. Moreover, Knock Off helps Simisage cripple Eviolite users such as Servine, Bronzor, and Ivysaur. Superpower helps Simisage punch through Steel-types like Klang and Lairon as well as Pokemon like Scraggy, non-Choice Scarf Vanilluxe, and Sawsbuck that would otherwise force Simisage out. Rock Slide rounds out Simisage's coverage, allowing it to hit would-be switch-ins such as Dustox, Jumpluff, Magmar, and Pidgeot. Gunk Shot can be used over either Superpower or Rock Slide so Simisage can break through bulky Grass-types like Servine, Gogoat, and Meganium. Most of Simisage's coverage is physical, and Leaf Storm is absurdly strong anyway, so Simisage prefers maximum Attack over Special Attack. Simisage has poor bulk and is easy to wear down due to Life Orb recoil, so pair it with pivots. Offensively, pivots such as Electabuzz, Frogadier, and Furfrou are excellent partners. Electabuzz pressures faster Pokemon like Jumpluff and Furfrou that threaten Simisage, while Simisage beats Ground-types for Electabuzz. Similarly, Frogadier and Furfrou break through Simisage's Fire- and Poison-type checks like Pignite and Swalot. Defensive pivots like Dustox and Vibrava cover Simisage's weakness to Poison- and Fire-types, bring it in safely with a slow U-turn, and remove entry hazards with Defog to increase its longevity. Simisage struggles to break through bulky Poison-types like Swalot, Trubbish, and Ivysaur, so pair it with Ground- and Psychic-types like Krokorok, Marshtomp, and Duosion. Similarly, Water-types like Politoed, Simipour, and Huntail are solid partners because they check Fire-types for Simisage. Simisage forces many switches, so entry hazard setters such as Gigalith, Lairon, and Whirlipede provide additional chip damage and help Simisage break more effectively. For example, Simisage can OHKO Jumpluff and Dustox with Rock Slide after Stealth Rock damage. Faster Pokemon like Persian, Jumpluff, and Furfrou are huge threats to Simisage, so pair it with defensive Pokemon like Carbink and Klang that switch into them. Simisage gives setup sweepers such as Shell Smash Huntail and Dragon Dance Scraggy an easier path to clean because it breaks through their checks like Politoed and Hippopotas. Nasty Plot Simisage aims to break through teams with its excellent coverage and Speed and takes advantage of would-be checks like Gogoat and Gourgeist-L. Giga Drain gives it more longevity when it's time to break or sweep. It offsets Life Orb recoil, making Simisage more difficult to take down. Focus Blast is used to hit Steel-types like Klang and Bronzor and can OHKO bulky Pokemon like Scraggy and Pignite after a Nasty Plot. Hidden Power Ice is preferred over Hidden Power Flying because while both hit Grass-types, Hidden Power Ice also hits Flying- and Dragon-types such as Pidgeot and Dragonair. Hidden Power Flying can be used to nail Dustox, Whirlipede, and Pignite, but it fails to OHKO Jumpluff like Hidden Power Ice does. This set is countered by bulky Poison-types like Swalot and Trubbish, so Psychic- and Ground-types like Duosion, Krokorok, and Marshtomp make for good partners. In return, Simisage breaks down Scraggy and Water-types like Politoed and Golduck for them. Simisage helps setup sweepers like Huntail, Shift Gear Klang, and Dragon Dance Scraggy clean in the late-game because it tears holes in teams. It should be paired with powerful attackers like Choice Band Furfrou, Pignite, and Murkrow to break through walls like Dustox, Swalot, Servine, and Ivysaur for it to break or clean. Entry hazard setters such as Gigalith, Lairon, Whirlipede, and Glalie make for good partners, as they provide necessary chip damage. For example, Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes ensure the OHKO on Dustox with +2 Hidden Power Flying if it is used. Because of its poor bulk, pair Simisage with slow pivots such as Dustox, Vibrava, and Klang to bring it in safely. It is pressured by faster Pokemon such as Persian, Jumpluff, and Swoobat, so bulky Pokemon like Carbink, Rocky Helmet Swalot, and Bronzor make for good partners because they switch into these threats. Lastly, Water-types like Politoed, Simipour, and Frogadier make for good partners because they check Fire-types for it, while Simisage pressures Electabuzz and Gogoat for them. Choice Scarf Simisage is one of the better revenge killers in the tier because it is faster than most other boosted Pokemon and has the coverage to revenge kill top offensive Pokemon such as Simipour and Persian. Due to the Special Attack drop, Leaf Storm is more of a one-time hit to revenge kill Pokemon like Shell Smash Huntail and Rock Polish Lairon and to nail physically bulky Pokemon like Carbink and Furfrou. Seed Bomb is its primary way to revenge kill offensive Pokemon like Electabuzz and Simipour. Gunk Shot can be used over Seed Bomb to hit Grass-types like Servine, Meganium, and Sawsbuck. Knock Off gives it more utility to cripple incoming switch-ins like Pignite and Bronzor by removing their Eviolite. Rock Slide is used to 2HKO Dustox, Jumpluff, and Pidgeot after Stealth Rock. Maximum Attack is needed because most of Simisage's coverage is physical. A Naive nature ensures Leaf Storm's damage output isn't lowered. Simisage fits best on balance and offensive teams that need a revenge killer that pressures Water-, Rock-, and Ground-types alongside its diverse coverage. As such, Pokemon like Pignite, Furfrou, and Electabuzz appreciate its ability to pressure those types of Pokemon. It has very limited opportunities to switch in, so pivots like Persian, Frogadier, and Dustox are great partners. Wallbreakers such as Choice Specs Magmar, Choice Specs Vanilluxe, and Choice Band Furfrou break down teams for it to revenge kill or clean late-game. These wallbreakers appreciate its ability to revenge kill faster Pokemon so they can wallbreak more easily. Entry hazard setters like Gigalith, Whirlipede, and Bronzor make for good partners because they provide chip damage and defensive support. For example, Simisage can OHKO Choice Scarf Magmar with Rock Slide after Stealth Rock. Gigalith checks Swalot and Furfrou, Whirlipede checks bulky Grass-types, and Bronzor walls Jumpluff and Dustox. Similarly, entry hazard removers like Dustox, Sandshrew, and Pidgeot improve its longevity because it is vulnerable to residual chip. Bulky Pokemon like Carbink, Politoed, and Duosion provide solid defensive support for it, as they take on Normal- and Fire-types and absorb status in Duosion's case. Lastly, Simisage provides solid support to offensive Pokemon such as Simipour, Vanilluxe, and Swoobat because it can use Knock Off to remove Eviolite from their checks like Servine, Pignite, and Bronzor. Hidden Power Ice can be used over on Simisage's mixed all-out attacker set to allow it to break past Gourgeist-L and OHKO an incoming Jumpluff after Stealth Rock. However, it is not easy to fit Hidden Power Ice over Superpower, Rock Slide, or Gunk Shot because Simisage will miss out on certain targets like Klang, Dustox, and specially defensive Servine. Similarly, Synthesis can be used over a coverage move on the mixed all-out attacker set to provide Simisage with more longevity. Substitute can be used over Focus Blast or Hidden Power Ice on the Nasty Plot set to avoid status against Gourgeist-L and Servine as well as protect against revenge killers like Persian, Fufrou, and Choice Scarf Magmar. However, Simisage typically wants coverage to beat Grass- and Steel-types. Choice Scarf Simisage can run Superpower or Gunk Shot over Leaf Storm to revenge kill Dragon Dance Scraggy, Shift Gear Klang, and Choice Scarf Vanilluxe or to have a way around Servine and Gogoat. However, being locked into Superpower or Gunk Shot is easy to exploit, so Simisage usually doesn't run them. Choice Specs can be used instead of Choice Scarf to turn Simisage into a special wallbreaker not reliant on Nasty Plot. However, Choice Specs Simisage is not that consistent because it is quite prediction reliant and still struggles against common Pokemon such as Swalot, Servine, Dustox, and Pignite.
Simisage (SM competitive strategy): Simisage is an extremely effective breaker thanks to its expansive movepool and excellent offensive stats. Little can switch into Simisage because of its fantastic coverage and ability to act as a mixed attacker with Leaf Storm and Superpower or setup sweeper with Nasty Plot. In addition to being able to threaten most of the metagame, Simisage is able to play around usual Grass-type checks such as Gourgeist-XL, Altaria, and Bouffalant because of its high attacking stats and powerful coverage moves. Moreover, Nasty Plot makes Simisage one of the best stallbreakers in the metagame, allowing it to overwhelm walls such as Lickilicky, Dusclops, and Gourgeist-XL. However, a pure Grass typing and mediocre bulk make it difficult for Simisage to find opportunities to switch in, and it is weak to revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Electivire, Rapidash, and Choice Scarf Swanna. This is exacerbated by Life Orb recoil, which in tandem with its entry hazard vulnerability makes Simisage easy to wear down. While Simisage is a fast Grass-type that hits hard, it faces competition from other offensive Grass-types such as Servine and Leafeon, which are bulkier and offer more utility. Hidden Power Ice hits Leaf Storm switch-ins such as Rotom-S, Altaria, and Silvally-Dragon. Knock Off gives Simisage great utility as a mixed attacker, allowing it to break down bulky Pokemon such as Bronzor and Dusclops. Superpower rounds out Simisage's coverage, enabling it to OHKO weakened Normal-types such as Bouffalant, Sawsbuck, and Lickilicky. Because Simisage lacks opportunities to switch in, it should be brought off pivots and aggressive double switches. Subsequently, bring Simisage in against Pokemon it can revenge kill with Leaf Storm such as Marowak, Silvally-Water, and Swanna. Against switch-ins that have recovery, a Grass-type immunity, or a 4x resistance to Leaf Storm such as Muk, Bouffalant, and Altaria, Simisage should double switch to a teammate or nail them with the right coverage move. Conversely, against frailer switch-ins and switch-ins that lack recovery such as Pinsir, Combusken, and Silvally-Dragon, Simisage should usually spam Leaf Storm and heavily chip them down. However, Simisage needs to be wary of the Special Attack drops from Leaf Storm, which make it much easier to switch into and render it as setup fodder for Pokemon such as Shell Smash Crustle and Swords Dance Leafeon. In addition, Simisage needs to be careful of the opponent switching around its coverage moves and STAB attacks in order to stall it out with Life Orb recoil or fish for the Special Attack drop. Pokemon that appreciate Ground- and Water-types gone such as Choice Scarf Electivire and Swords Dance Combusken pair well with Simisage. In return, Choice Scarf Electivire checks faster threats such as Rapidash and Jumpluff and has Volt Switch to bring Simisage in safely, while Combusken checks Grass- and Steel-types such as Bellossom and Metang. Because Simisage lacks good opportunities to switch in, pivots such as Rotom-S, Silvally-Dragon, and Choice Band Furfrou pair well with it. Moreover, Rotom-S covers Flying-types that threaten Simisage, Silvally-Dragon is able to check Fire-types, and Choice Band Furfrou checks Pokemon with faster physical attackers such as Floatzel, Choice Scarf Silvally, and Pinsir. Simisage also pairs well with setup sweepers such as Z-Rain Dance Swanna and Shell Smash Crustle that take advantage of Simisage's ability to break down Pokemon such as Bouffalant, Dusclops, and Rotom-S. Entry hazard setters such as Golem and Bronzor help Simisage secure KOs against Pokemon such as Glaceon, Altaria, and offensive Torterra. Conversely, Defoggers and spinners such as Silvally-Water, Swanna, and Sandslash help keep Simisage healthy by removing entry hazards. Energy Ball provides Simisage with more breaking power, allowing it to 2HKO bulky Pokemon such as Dusclops and specially defensive Komala, but it makes Simisage much easier to wear down. Focus Blast nails Pokemon such as Bouffalant, Lickilicky, and Mawile that could switch into Giga Drain and Hidden Power Ice. Hidden Power Ice is necessary, as it allows Simisage to break through Grass-type switch-ins such as Altaria, Gourgeist-XL, and Toucannon after a Nasty Plot. Fightinium Z is preferred over Life Orb to ensure Simisage can break past Bouffalant and Lickilicky without risking a Focus Blast miss and does not wear down Simisage unlike Life Orb. However, Life Orb gives Simisage greater breaking power and secures more OHKOs after a Nasty Plot, such as on Gourgeist-XL and specially defensive Torterra with Hidden Power Ice. Simisage should set up off forced switches against Pokemon such as Golem, Torterra, and Basculin or against passive Pokemon such as Gourgeist-XL and Mareanie because it tends to lack setup opportunities otherwise. Simisage should be brought in off pivots, through double switches, or after a teammate faints, since it tends to lack good opportunities to switch in. Nasty Plot is comparatively easier to switch into than mixed attacker sets, so it is vital to analyze the opponent's team and formulate a plan accordingly. Against slower, more defensive teams, Simisage can usually sweep late-game, but against faster teams, where Simisage lacks setup opportunities, it is best used as an early-game breaker. Make sure counters such as Muk, Bronzor, and Silvally-Poison are gone to ensure Simisage can sweep. Once these Pokemon are removed, Simisage can usually sweep through stall teams after a Nasty Plot because of its amazing coverage and ability to stay healthy by attacking foes with +2 Giga Drain. Revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Electivire, Rapidash, and Choice Band Furfrou and priority users such as Kecleon should also be eliminated so that Simisage can sweep. Grass-type switch-ins such as Bronzor, Muk, and Silvally-Poison wall Nasty Plot Simisage, so partners that can weaken these Pokemon such as Mareanie, Swanna, and Monferno pair well with Simisage. Mareanie is able to remove Bronzor's Eviolite with Knock Off, Swanna is able to weaken Muk and Silvally-Poison with Scald, and Monferno is able to heavily weaken all these Pokemon with STAB Flare Blitz. Electric-types such as Electivire, Rotom-S, and Silvally-Electric support Simisage by checking Flying-types such as Toucannon, Jumpluff, and Choice Scarf Swanna that threaten it. In particular, Simisage can break down walls for Choice Scarf Electivire and pave way for a late-game sweep. Entry hazard setters such as Golem, Marowak, and Bronzor provide crucial Stealth Rock support for Simisage, enabling it to pick up KOs against Lickilicky and Altaria after setting up. Golem and Bronzor both provide good defensive support as well, with the former checking Fire- and Bug-types such as Rapidash and Pinsir and the latter checking Ice- and Normal-types such as Glaceon and Choice Scarf Silvally. Mareanie is another entry hazard setter that pairs exceptionally well with Simisage because Toxic Spikes make it easier for Simisage to break down specially bulky Pokemon such as Dusclops, Lickilicky, and Assault Vest Kecleon due to the constant chip damage. Entry hazard removers such as Swanna, Silvally-Ground, and Silvally-Dragon are crucial for Simisage, as keeping it healthy is vital for a late-game sweep, particularly when running Life Orb. On the mixed attacker set, a spread of 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe with Gunk Shot or Rock Slide over Hidden Power Ice can be used to take advantage of Simisage's ability to break down Leaf Storm switch-ins such as Shiinotic and Rapidash. While this is generally inferior and limits Simisage's ability to spam Leaf Storm, it is useful on teams that appreciate Simisage's ability to bait in the aforementioned Pokemon and KO them. A Choice Scarf set can be used with Leaf Storm, Rock Slide, Gunk Shot, and Superpower to make Simisage a scary revenge killer. However, this heavily limits Simisage and forces it to forego its niche as a wallbreaker that can switch up coverage moves.
Spidops (SV competitive strategy): Pitiful stats, a small movepool, and hardly any semblance of set variety all make Spidops the absolute worst choice for a Tera Captain, and any other Pokemon on a draft team should realistically be chosen over it for such a role. If bestowed the capability to Terastallize, Spidops can utilize Tera Ghost to spinblock for its own entry hazards. Spidops is a last-minute addition to a team that serves as an extremely cheap option for setting up Sticky Web, so any offensive teammates, especially ones with more middling Speed like both Urshifu formes and Kyurem, will appreciate any entry hazards it can set up. Wallbreakers and setup sweepers like Raging Bolt and Iron Valiant, respectively, can also take advantage of its pivoting and stat-lowering moves to immediately threaten the opposing team. Finally, spinblockers like Sinistcha and Gholdengo can help preserve any entry hazards set by Spidops.
Iron Treads (SV competitive strategy): Iron Treads functions as an excellent entry hazard control option, using its good Speed and access to Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin in order to effectively set and deny hazards while checking important Pokemon such as Raging Bolt, Galarian Slowking, Pecharunt, and Gholdengo. Knock Off can be used in order to remove important items such as Heavy-Duty Boots from would-be defensive switch-ins such as Moltres and Zapdos, while Ice Spinner is an option in order to hit Flying- and Grass-types that would otherwise switch in such as Dragonite, Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Hydrapple for super effective damage. An alternative EV spread of 248 HP / 252 SpD / 8 Spe with a Careful nature can be used as a more defensive utility piece, letting it better check Raging Bolt on some bulkier teams, with 8 Speed EVs allowing Iron Treads to outspeed the aforementioned Raging Bolt. Leftovers can be used to improve Iron Treads's longevity, allowing it to function as a utility piece better; alternatively, Air Balloon enables Iron Treads to switch into Ground-type attacks from foes such as Gliscor, Great Tusk, Landorus-T, and Dragonite. Clear Amulet is another niche option to block Pecharunt's Parting Shot while also letting Iron Treads ignore Landorus-T's Intimidate. Assault Vest is a niche option that should only be used on teams where Stealth Rock from Iron Treads is not needed; this gives it the much-needed special bulk without compromising its offensive investment and letting it run both Knock Off + Ice Spinner simultaneously. Tera Ghost gives Iron Treads the ability to block Rapid Spin while also providing a useful Fighting immunity for foes such as Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Great Tusk. Iron Treads fits primarily on bulkier offensive structures where its ability to set and remove entry hazards is greatly appreciated. As Iron Treads functions as an excellent check to Raging Bolt and, when holding an Air Balloon, Enamorus, Pokemon that struggle against these such as Hisuian Samurott and Zamazenta enjoy the defensive utility that Iron Treads provides, as well as its removal of hazards that allows them to come in more times in a game. In return, Zamazenta can break through foes such as Ting-Lu and Hisuian Samurott that Iron Treads could otherwise struggle with, while Hisuian Samurott can form a potent hazard stacking core with it, being able to consistently set Spikes. Iron Treads can also consistently remove hazards, meaning hazard-weak teammates such as Choice Scarf Enamorus and Choice Specs Kyurem appreciate Iron Treads greatly. In return, Enamorus can beat Fighting-types such as Zamazenta and Great Tusk that Iron Treads would otherwise struggle with, while Kyurem can more easily handle Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Gliscor for it. Iron Treads can often struggle to deal with defensive Flying- and Water-types such as Moltres, Corviknight, Alomomola, and Dondozo; Electric-types such as Raging Bolt and Zapdos can deal with them, with Iron Treads in exchange removing hazards for Raging Bolt and preventing Zapdos from being taken advantage of by opposing Raging Bolt. Iron Treads also is forced out by common Fire-types like Cinderace and Iron Moth, meaning Fire-resistant teammates such as Primarina, Garganacl, and Dragonite are appreciated. Iron Treads and Dragonite can attempt to overwhelm shared checks such as Moltres and Zapdos, with Iron Treads potentially being able to remove their Heavy-Duty Boots, allowing Dragonite to break through far more easily using the Stealth Rock that Iron Treads itself sets. On bulkier teams, Moltres can also be a good partner, as it provides Iron Treads with a good Great Tusk and Zamazenta switch-in, while Ogerpon-W can also be an effective teammate in order to break through Fire-, Water-, and Ground-types such as Moltres, Great Tusk, Alomomola, Dondozo, and Gliscor for Iron Treads. In return, Iron Treads can remove hazards for the otherwise hazard-prone Ogerpon-W while helping it against Pecharunt, which could otherwise threaten it with Malignant Chain. Iron Treads also often finds itself vulnerable to Fighting-type attacks, meaning teammates such as Gholdengo and Pecharunt are enjoyed in order to answer foes such as Iron Valiant and Zamazenta, with Iron Treads in return beating Raging Bolt and opposing Gholdengo. On some fatter structures, Iron Treads enables teammates such as Alomomola to run items other than Heavy-Duty Boots, with Alomomola in return providing Wish support, helping Iron Treads's poor longevity. Iron Treads's solid Speed tier boosted by Quark Drive allows it to reliably set Stealth Rock as well as consistently use Rapid Spin. Acting as a fast lead with Booster Energy, Iron Treads can specialize in either physical attacks, with Ice Spinner as coverage to hit Flying-types like Landorus-T and Dragonite, or special attacks like Steel Beam as a way to get off heavy damage on bulkier foes like Great Tusk, Hatterene, and Kyurem and potentially give a teammate a free switch-in by KOing itself, which also gives it another way to block Defog and Rapid Spin. A physical Iron Treads can use Earthquake to take on Raging Bolt to prevent it from boosting with Calm Mind, whereas Special Iron Treads can use Earth Power to stop Pecharunt from blocking Rapid Spin. On either set, Iron Treads should always use a Speed-boosting nature to ensure a Speed boost from Quark Drive. Tera Ghost allows Iron Treads to block Rapid Spin from Great Tusk and opposing Iron Treads, as well as protect it from Fighting-type attacks from Pokemon such as Zamazenta in a pinch. Lead Iron Treads's ability to set entry hazards and keep them off its own side make it an extremely useful trait on offensive teams, especially hazard-stack builds. Zamazenta is one of Iron Treads's premier teammates thanks to the latter's ability to handle many of Zamazenta's checks, walling Raging Bolt while shrugging off Fairy-type attacks from the likes of Enamorus, enabling Zamazenta to act as a setup sweeper with more impunity. Iron Treads can support slower teams thanks to Booster Energy, dealing with faster threats such as Deoxys-S and chipping them down to be more easily cleaned up later by powerful teammates like Dragonite. On hazard-stack teams, Hisuian Samurott can pile on additional chip damage with Spikes from Ceaseless Edge, and Gholdengo and Pecharunt can both block hazard removal while handling faster threats that can exploit its weaknesses like Iron Valiant and Ogerpon-W, building a core with Iron Treads that can keep pressure on enemy teams. These hazards support offensive teammates like Dragonite, Iron Valiant, Ogerpon-W, and Ceruledge, allowing them to break through opposing structures easier, and in turn, these teammates benefit strongly from Iron Treads's ability to keep entry hazards away with Rapid Spin, allowing them to get away with not running Heavy-Duty Boots. Iron Treads is also a great asset on rain teams, as it absorbs Electric-type moves to protect Pelipper and acts as speed control for slower wallbreakers like Raging Bolt, outspeeding threats like Dragapult and opposing Raging Bolt that would give it trouble.
Tinkaton (SV competitive strategy): Tinkaton's good matchup against Mandibuzz makes it a strong Stealth Rock setter that uses its typing to get plenty of entry hazard-setting chances. Certain teams prefer Tinkaton to use Thunder Wave, though, since they can fit another Stealth Rock setter; this can help significantly when dealing with foes like Latios and Spiky Shield Ogerpon-C. Knock Off is excellent utility that prevents Tinkaton from being passive, removing items from Excadrill, Tornadus-T, and Rotom-W. Encore is Tinkaton's most useful asset, letting it use its typing and bulk to checkmate foes like Latios and Hydrapple. Leftovers is preferred on Mold Breaker sets so that Tinkaton has some longevity, with Mold Breaker proving useful to let it OHKO Ogerpon-C and Mimikyu despite their abilities. Pickpocket with an Air Balloon can let it steal items from Excadrill, Ogerpon, and Lokix, which can help immensely in fending these threats off. The given EVs allow Tinkaton to KO Latios with Knock Off followed by Gigaton Hammer while surviving a +2 Superpower from Ogerpon-C. Play Rough is a niche option that lets Tinkaton more directly pressure Greninja and Latios, but it is extremely weak against foes it doesn't hit super effectively. Tera Flying lets Tinkaton use Encore after Excadrill's Earthquake, While Tera Ghost can Encore Excadrill and Quaquaval into a failed attempt to remove hazards with Rapid Spin. Tera Dark helps Tinkaton against strong Psychic-type attackers like Choice Specs Latios, while Tera Dragon lets it check Greninja and Belly Drum Azumarill. Tinkaton's incredible typing and utility let it fit on all kinds of bulky offense and balance teams, using Stealth Rock to support teammates like Zarude and Lokix that love to weaken checks with Knock Off. It's also a good partner for teammates like Sandy Shocks and Rotom-W that dislike dealing with Latios. Tinkaton's flexibility lets it use its bulk to tank huge attacks and lock foes into them with Encore; for example, it often needs to lock Greninja into Surf. As such, teammates that can handle these attacks like Slowking and Hydrapple can be very useful to have. They also help signficantly against Excadrill, which Tinkaton tends to let in for free. Teams that use Tinkaton should aim to make progress fairly quickly; while it's a great stopgap to all kinds of threats, its lack of reliable recovery prevents it from lasting forever, so it needs progress-making teammates like Tornadus-T and Weavile, which can help it create favorable game states.
Emolga (SM competitive strategy): Despite Emolga's unique attributes in an Electric immunity and Encore, its stats outside of Speed are quite lacking, and it is outclassed by mainly Oricorio-E. Emolga also does not hit especially hard, and its quirks do not stand up to Oricorio-E's access to Calm Mind, higher Special Attack, much better bulk, and ability to check threats like Gurdurr and Torterra much more convincingly. Emolga aims to perform as a pivot with utility moves in Encore, Taunt, and Knock Off with its respectable Speed tier and ability to gain momentum by disrupting the foe. Even with its blend of offense and utility, Emolga's lackluster stats tend to fail it, so it struggles to do its job consistently. This makes Oricorio-E a better option for a Pokemon of its typing, and other utility pivots such as Alolan Persian are overall more effective.
Emolga (SS competitive strategy): If you really want to use Emolga in ZU, consider playing BW where it is a top threat. In SS, however, Emolga's stats are underwhelming; it is both too weak to break anything and too frail to use its great typing for defensive purposes. It is outclassed as an offensive Electric-type by Rotom and Manectric, as a Flying-type pivot by Articuno, and as a fast pivot by Alolan Persian; there is truly nothing to save about this flying rat. Emolga attemps to make some progress by removing items from opposing walls and generating momentum with U-turn. This set is highly inconsistent because Emolga is both too slow and too weak to force anything out, unless it's been very chipped, and it is too frail to switch into most threats in the tier. Alolan Persian and Rapidash are much more consistent as offensive utility options due to their superior stats, while Palossand, Rhydon, and Stunfisk are better Electric immunities. Will-O-Wisp Rotom is better as a Ground-immune, Electric-type offensive utility option, while Alolan Persian is a more effective fast pivot with access to Knock Off and a better Speed tier. These two also aren't crippled much by entry hazards, unlike Emolga, whose strongest STAB move in Acrobatic is anti-synergistic with Heavy-Duty Boots.
Pangoro (XY competitive strategy): With access to moves such as Knock Off, Drain Punch, and Swords Dance, Pangoro has a chance to shine in the ORAS UU metagame. The panda boasts a great offensive typing combined with a very high base Attack, good coverage, and great utility in Parting Shot. Pangoro's extremely useful ability Iron Fist helps it tear through even the bulkiest of physical walls, and it has Scrappy and Mold Breaker as decent alternative options. Despite its fantastic wallbreaking prowess, Pangoro is set back by its mediocre Speed combined with a lack of access to priority moves. It also has weaknesses to common offensive types in UU and only a few resistances to take advantage of. However, Pangoro is still excellent at its job of breaking through defensive Pokemon and should be considered to perform this role on teams that require it. Boosted by Iron Fist, Hammer Arm is Pangoro's strongest STAB move and is able to deal huge damage, even to Pokemon that resist it. Knock Off provides excellent coverage and an additional STAB move to nail certain Fighting-resistant Pokemon such as Crobat and Nidoqueen. It can also cripple switch-ins, especially those with Eviolite, such as Gligar. Gunk Shot is the strongest option to hit Fairy-types such as Sylveon and Florges, which resist both of Pangoro's STAB moves; it is powerful enough to OHKO every Fairy-type in the tier after Stealth Rock damage besides Granbull, which is 2HKOed. Poison Jab is a more accurate coverage option, but misses out on these important OHKOs and 2HKOs. Parting Shot can be used in the last slot to gain momentum and weaken offensive switch-ins, bringing in another member of your team safely. Drain Punch can also be used as a more reliable Fighting-type STAB move that won't drop Pangoro's Speed and can restore Pangoro's HP if it gets worn down. Maximum Attack investment with an Adamant nature is used to provide maximum power output and allows Pangoro to get the OHKOs and 2HKOs mentioned previously. Max Speed is used to outspeed every defensive Pokemon, including faster ones such as CroCune, Cresselia, and Gligar. Using a Choice Band ensures an OHKO or 2HKO against almost everything in the tier with the appropriate move, while a Life Orb allows Pangoro to switch moves at the cost of some power and recoil damage. Use Knock Off against Pokemon wielding Leftovers or Eviolite early on in a game to give Pangoro a better chance at breaking through physically defensive Pokemon such as Gligar and Suicune on the next switch. Predicting a Fairy-type or Fighting-resistant Pokemon to switch into Pangoro early in the game and using the appropriate coverage move allows Pangoro to spam Hammer Arm after these Pokemon are removed. Play carefully around Hammer Arm's Speed drop; Pangoro can outspeed Pokemon such as Suicune and Chesnaught before the first usage of Hammer Arm, but not after. Against offense, make use of Pangoro's key resistance to Dark, but don't let its item be removed by Knock Off when facing defensively oriented teams. Parting Shot should be used aggressively against faster teams to allow other Pokemon that are better against offense, such as Mega Swampert, to set up more easily. Stealth Rock is necessary to get KOs on Crobat, Aromatisse, and Granbull and helps against others such as Suicune. Pangoro appreciates Pokemon that resist Flying and Fairy and can be relied on if you predict wrongly, fail to KO a foe, or miss an attack. Sweepers and cleaners can take advantage of Pangoro's ability to cripple or remove defensive Pokemon of almost any kind with its attacks and weaken offensive Pokemon with Parting Shot. Pangoro is otherwise mediocre against offense, so team members that do well against the playstyle are needed. This set makes use of Swords Dance to boost Pangoro's Attack to insane levels. Drain Punch is a good STAB move that is boosted by Iron Fist and lets Pangoro recover damage accumulated while switching in and setting up while also making it harder for defensive Pokemon to wear it down. Knock Off is Pangoro's other STAB move, providing excellent coverage in tandem with Drain Punch, and lets it cripple foes by removing their items. After a Swords Dance, Pangoro's Gunk Shot OHKOes every Fairy-type, including Granbull, after Stealth Rock damage. Poison Jab can also be used to OHKO every Fairy-type besides Granbull with very little prior damage and has better accuracy. Maximum Attack is used for obvious reasons, while the given Speed investment allows Pangoro to outspeed everything up to uninvested Nidoqueen. The extra bulk allows Pangoro to set up a little more easily and is helpful against weaker attacks from Pokemon like Gligar and Alomomola. Maximum Speed investment can also be used to outspeed Cresselia, Gligar, and Suicune. A Lum Berry lets Pangoro set up more easily on bulky Water-types with Scald, carriers of Toxic, and Body Slam Snorlax. Iron Fist is preferred to power up Drain Punch; however, Mold Breaker cancels out abilities such as Quagsire's Unaware, Mega Aggron's Filter, and Donphan's Sturdy. An alternative STAB move such as Hammer Arm can be used with Mold Breaker. Pangoro finds easy setup opportunities against specially defensive Pokemon such as Blissey and Umbreon; after setting up, Pangoro can proceed to decimate the stall teams these Pokemon are frequently found on. Faster Pokemon such as Crobat that threaten to KO Pangoro in the middle of a sweep must be eliminated. While fantastic at breaking down defensive teams, Swords Dance Pangoro is near dead-weight against offense. It should be used to simply remove items with Knock Off and as fodder. Pangoro's team members must be able to reliably deal with offense and faster teams in general. In particular, fast Flying- and Fighting-types must be checked. Mega Aerodactyl does this well in addition to performing well against offense. Pangoro can lure and knock out defensive Fairy-types, clearing the way for teammates like Choice Scarf Hydreigon and Mienshao. A set with Substitute and either of Focus Punch with Leftovers and Drain Punch with Life Orb can be effective against many playstyles and gives Pangoro good survivability while still maintaining its incredible power. Sky Uppercut is a stronger Iron Fist-boosted alternative to Drain Punch and doesn't have negative side effects. Facade is an option to alleviate burns to a degree, but Pangoro doesn't have much room for it on any of its sets. As far as coverage goes, Earthquake is available to get a stronger hit on Poison-types such as Nidoqueen, Tentacruel, and particularly Toxicroak, which resists all of Pangoro's other commonly run moves. Stone Edge can be used exclusively to KO Crobat without Stealth Rock damage, and Ice Punch can be used to OHKO Gligar. Finally, Bulk Up is an alternative to Swords Dance that makes Pangoro harder to revenge kill but less effective at destroying stall.
Pangoro (SM competitive strategy): Pangoro's high Attack stat, great STAB combination, useful movepool, and ability Iron Fist make it a powerful wallbreaker and late-game sweeper capable of threatening Pokemon like Rhydon, Slowking, and Palossand. Swords Dance allows it break walls like Weezing and Vaporeon as well as sweep late-game with Bullet Punch, KOing revenge killers like Aerodactyl, Sneasel, and Sceptile. Pangoro can also use Choice Band to get an immediate Attack boost, making it a deadly threat right off the bat. However, due to its low Speed, unimpressive bulk, and weaknesses to common attacking types like Fighting and Fairy, it is hard for Pangoro to find an opportunity to set up Swords Dance. For this reason, it faces competition from other wallbreakers like Incineroar and Passimian, which are faster and bring more utility to the table, making them easier to fit them on a team. Swords Dance boosts Pangoro's Attack to dangerous levels, improving its wallbreaking abilities without being locked into a move. Knock Off is Pangoro's Dark-type STAB move that has the added effect of removing the foe's item such as Weezing's Rocky Helmet and Passimian's Choice Scarf. Drain Punch is the preferred Fighting-type STAB move due to its ability to recover Pangoro's health while having no drawbacks, and it is quite strong at +2. Bullet Punch gives Pangoro a form of priority, allowing it to act as a late-game sweeper after a Swords Dance even if faster threats like Aerodactyl and Whimsicott are around, and provides a way for Pangoro to hit Fairy-types super effectively. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs and an Adamant nature improve Pangoro's offensive capabilities. Chople Berry allows Pangoro to take a Close Combat from Passimian. Life Orb is an option to improve Pangoro's power, but Chople Berry's utility is generally preferred. Iron Fist boosts Drain Punch and Bullet Punch. Use Knock Off whenever possible, especially early-game. There is no drawback to using it, as it can help scout for Z-Moves and remove important items. Pangoro's bulk is not very good, so it should be brought out through pivots, through double switches, or after a teammate has fainted. Pangoro doesn't find many opportunities to set up Swords Dance due to the amount of offensive Pokemon that can revenge kill it by taking advantage of its low Speed. Thus, Swords Dance should only be used if Pangoro is up against a naturally forced out foe like Slowking or Steelix or a Pokemon that cannot do much damage to Pangoro like Palossand. If the opponent still has a Pokemon that can revenge kill Pangoro, thus stopping its sweep, like Passimian or Whimsicott, make sure they are in range of +2 Bullet Punch. Use Drain Punch if Pangoro is low on health to make revenge killing it harder. Swords Dance Pangoro does amazingly against slow, bulky teams, so keep it healthy for a sweep in that matchup. Pangoro struggles to set up versus offensive teams, however, so it is usually better off just attacking and weakening the opposing team due to their general lack of reliable switch-ins to it. Pivots like Passimian and Togedemaru can bring Pangoro in safely. Entry hazard support is greatly appreciated, allowing Pangoro to plow through even Unaware walls. Stealth Rock users like Rhydon, Druddigon, and Steelix do the job nicely, as Rhydon and Steelix can cover Pangoro's weakness to Flying, and the latter can also cover Fairy-types. Spikes and Toxic Spikes users like Weezing, Garbodor, and Accelgor also work well; the former two can help against Fairy- and Fighting-types, while Final Gambit Accelgor can also KO Weezing and Garbodor. Fast attackers like Heliolisk and Sceptile can ease the matchup against fast offensive teams and enjoy Knock Off support, allowing them to break through checks more easily and particularly appreciating Passimian's Choice Scarf being removed to stop it from revenge killing them. Other late-game sweepers like Comfey and Vivillon appreciate Pangoro's ability to wallbreak. Comfey particularly enjoys Pangoro weakening Poison-types, and Vivillon enjoys Rock- and Steel-types weakened. Knock Off is Pangoro's most spammable move due to its lack of drawbacks and ability to remove items. Superpower is Pangoro's strongest Fighting STAB move, but the stat drops make Pangoro easier to revenge kill and pivot into. Hammer Arm is an alternative to Superpower that doesn't reduce Pangoro's Attack and Defense while maintaining the same power, but it leaves Pangoro vulnerable to revenge killing by slower Pokemon like Alolan Exeggutor and offensive Rhydon. Drain Punch lets Pangoro heal itself while still doing a decent chunk of damage. Bullet Punch is a form of priority that allows Pangoro to pick off weakened revenge killers like Passimian, Aerodactyl, and Whimsicott, slightly compensating for its low Speed. Zen Headbutt targets Poison-types like Weezing, Garbodor, and Golbat for super effective damage and hits Fairy-types like Whimsicott for neutral damage. Maximum Attack and Speed investment alongside an Adamant nature and a Choice Band allows Pangoro to be as strong and fast as possible, outspeeding walls like Vaporeon and Dhelmise. Iron Fist boosts the power of some of Pangoro's moves, improving Pangoro's offensive capability. A Jolly nature can be opted for to outspeed opposing Pangoro and Speed tie with Scrafty, but the higher damage output is usually preferred. Pangoro's bulk and Speed are not very good, meaning it struggles a lot against offensive teams, so it generally should be switched in through pivoting, after a teammate has fainted, or on moves that Pangoro is resistant or immune to from the likes of Rhydon and Choice-locked Sneasel and Sigilyph. Avoid letting it get chipped down as well. Use Knock Off whenever Pangoro gets on the field if the opponent has a Ghost- or Poison-type like Decidueye or Weezing, as this weakens them gradually and removes their items, allowing Pangoro to use its Fighting-type moves more freely late-game. Pangoro should use Drain Punch to recover its health should it be low on health from residual damage from pivoting in. Use Bullet Punch to clean up a weakened team or revenge kill a foe. Make sure to put Pokemon in range of Bullet Punch by laying entry hazards and spamming Knock Off early-game. Pangoro does well against slower and bulkier teams due to its great offensive presence and Speed advantage, so try to keep it healthy against such teams. Pokemon with U-turn or Volt Switch like Passimian, Xatu, Decidueye, and Heliolisk are great partners that can bring Pangoro in safely. Passimian can also form a threatening Fighting-type core with Pangoro that aims to wear down checks by means of entry hazards, pivoting, and strong attacks. Heliolisk benefits from Pangoro's Knock Off threatening checks like Dhelmise. Pangoro also appreciates Fairy-resistant Pokemon like Steelix and Weezing. Steelix can also help with Flying-types and set up Stealth Rock, and Weezing can check Fighting-types and pressure Pangoro's switch-ins with Toxic Spikes. Entry hazard users like Rhydon, Druddigon, and Garbodor are good partners to help chip down Pangoro's checks. Garbodor covers Pangoro's Fairy weakness, and Rhydon helps with Flying-types. Druddigon can slow down checks like Passimian with Glare, making them easier to deal with. Late-game sweepers like Vivillon and Comfey are decent teammates. Vivillon appreciates Rock-types pressured, Comfey can pressure Poison-types alongside Pangoro, and both enjoy Steel-types pressured. Pangoro can also remove items like Iapapa Berry from Incineroar, Eviolite from Golbat, and Leftovers from various defensive Pokemon. In return, they can also offensively check Fighting-types. Earthquake alongside Mold Breaker is an interesting option to hit Weezing super effectively, but it is very situational and slightly decreases Bullet Punch's damage. Gunk Shot can prevent Fairy-types from pivoting into Pangoro as easily; however, Bullet Punch and Zen Headbutt are often preferred, as Bullet Punch provides priority and allows Pangoro to prevent revenge killing from weakened faster threats, while Zen Headbutt hits Poison-types super effectively and provides a good neutral move alongside Pangoro's STAB moves. Ice Punch is decent neutral coverage alongside Knock Off and a Fighting-type move, but it is hard to justify over Bullet Punch or Zen Headbutt. Scrappy is an option to hit Ghost-types even with a Fighting-type move, thus making it more spammable, but the damage output of Bullet Punch will be reduced, which makes Pangoro a less effective revenge killer.
Pangoro (SS competitive strategy): Pangoro is a great wallbreaker in RU. With its power, near-unresisted STAB combination, and coverage, it can 2HKO or OHKO the whole metagame, outright taking advantage of common Steel- and Dark-types like Registeel, Bronzong, and Umbreon. It's one of the tier's best Fighting-type wallbreakers, lacking hard counters unlike Lucario and Heracross. Pangoro also has another key advantage—priority in Bullet Punch, which revenge kills weakened setup sweepers. Choice Band Pangoro is the most immediately threatening set; it takes down the likes of Rhyperior and physically defensive Registeel with minimal prior damage and isn't worn down by Life Orb recoil. Alternatively, Swords Dance Pangoro deals with Umbreon and revenge killers like Gardevoir and Togekiss. Pangoro's low Speed and lackluster defensive profile make it poor against highly offensive teams, which are filled with fast Pokemon that OHKO it like Lucario and Sharpedo. Also, while Pangoro is near unwallable, Lucario and Heracross are faster, allowing them to better threaten offensive Pokemon like Xurkitree, Goodra, and Chandelure. Lucario is also a fearsome sweeper with Extreme Speed, and Bewear has superior defensive utility; Fluffy lets Bewear check Pokemon like Golisopod, makes it harder for Crobat to revenge kill, and even lets it help versus other Fighting-types if it holds Chople Berry. Choice Band Pangoro is very immediately threatening; it needs minimal prior damage to KO Rhyperior and physically defensive Registeel, which can trade blows with Swords Dance Pangoro, and it doesn't get worn down by Life Orb recoil. Iron Head 2HKOes Fairy-types like Galarian Weezing and Togekiss. Bullet Punch revenge kills weakened setup sweepers like Dragon Dance Flygon and Mimikyu. Alternatively, Darkest Lariat gives Pangoro a better matchup against Defense-boosting sweepers like Cosmic Power Metagross and the uncommon Acid Armor Reuniclus. Scrappy allows Pangoro to use Close Combat without fear of Ghost-types like Chandelure and Dhelmise coming in. Pangoro loves pivot support from the likes of Xurkitree, Heliolisk, and Crobat to bring it in against Pokemon like Registeel and Steelix. Additionally, Xurkitree and Heliolisk check Togekiss. Fighting-types such as Heracross, Bewear, and Lucario revenge kill Pangoro. Togekiss checks the first two, Crobat checks Heracross and revenge kills Lucario, and Jellicent and Chandelure check Lucario and Bewear. Steel-types like Registeel and Steelix check Flying-types like Crobat and Togekiss. In return, Pangoro's Knock Off removes Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Crobat and Togekiss, increasing the effectiveness of their Stealth Rock. Special attackers like Roserade and Nidoqueen take advantage of Galarian Weezing for Pangoro. Choice Band Pangoro can struggle to break through very defensive teams with Umbreon, since it can scout Pangoro's Choice-locked attack with Protect, so it likes teammates generally strong against such teams like Nasty Plot Togekiss and Taunt Nidoqueen. Swords Dance Pangoro is very strong against defensive teams because it easily takes advantage of Umbreon, which Choice Band Pangoro cannot. Its boosted Bullet Punch makes it a bit harder to revenge kill, OHKOing Gardevoir, as well as Togekiss with Stealth Rock. Even without Choice Band, Bullet Punch is still useful for revenge killing weakened setup sweepers like Flygon and Mimikyu. Drain Punch helps offset Life Orb's recoil and is boosted by Iron Fist. Iron Head lets Pangoro easily tear apart defensive teams by OHKOing Galarian Weezing after a boost and Stealth Rock. Pivots that form VoltTurn cores like Heliolisk, Xurkitree, and Crobat can bring Pangoro in against walls such as Registeel and Steelix. Moreover, Xurkitree and Heliolisk check Togekiss for Pangoro. Steel-types like Steelix, Registeel, and Metagross check Flying-types such as Togekiss and Crobat. In return, Pangoro's Knock Off removes Heavy-Duty Boots from the likes of Togekiss, increasing the effectiveness of their Stealth Rock. Common Fighting-types like Heracross, Bewear, and Lucario easily revenge kill Pangoro. Crobat checks Heracross and revenge kills Lucario, Togekiss checks the first two, and Jellicent and Chandelure check the latter two. Special attackers like Salazzle, Nasty Plot Crobat, and Nidoqueen take advantage of Galarian Weezing for Pangoro. Close Combat is an option over Drain Punch on Swords Dance sets that OHKOes Milotic and Gastrodon while boosted, as well as Rhyperior and physically defensive Registeel with minimal prior damage. Coba Berry is an option on Swords Dance Pangoro to turn the tables on revenge killers like Crobat and Togekiss. Black Glasses increases Pangoro's power without incurring recoil, which makes Close Combat more justifiable over Drain Punch with Swords Dance. Lum Berry heals burns from Starmie's or Milotic's Scald, Jellicent's Will-O-Wisp, and Toxic from Bronzong and Registeel. However, Lum Berry significantly compromises Pangoro's power, notably making it less efficient at breaking through Crobat.
Gourgeist (XY competitive strategy): Gourgeist has an extremely tiny niche over other Gourgeist formes, being able to outspeed the entire unboosted PU metagame with a Choice Scarf without having to run a Jolly nature. Gourgeist can also Trick its foes a Choice item, locking them into an unfavorable move, and can scout items with Frisk. However, Leafeon is a superior user of Choice Scarf because of its better Speed and greater offensive presence. Gourgeist is also reliant on Destiny Bond, which can be very risky to get locked into. In addition to this, Gourgeist is outclassed by Gourgeist-XL and Tangela defensively because of their superior bulk, by Simisage and Leafeon offensively because of their higher offensive presence, and by Gourgeist-S as a SubSeeder because of its higher Speed. Trick lets Gourgeist lock passive Pokemon such as Audino and Roselia into an unfavorable move and allows it to force out Calm Mind + Magic Guard users such as Clefairy and Duosion. Will-O-Wisp allows Gourgeist to cripple physical attackers such as Krokorok and Fraxure. Seed Bomb is Gourgeist's strongest and most reliable attacking move, hitting Rock- and Water-types such as Golem and Simipour, and is great for wearing down foes in conjunction with Will-O-Wisp. Destiny Bond knocks out Pokemon such as Zebstrika and Simisear as well as allowing a teammate to get in safely. 212 EVs in Speed and a Choice Scarf allow Gourgeist to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame and all Pokemon up to +1 Fraxure. 252 EVs in Attack and an Adamant nature allow Gourgeist to hit as hard as possible, and the remaining EVs are put in HP for added bulk. Frisk allows Gourgeist to scout out items such as Choice Scarf from Pokemon such as Rotom-F. Gourgeist should make use of its typing to switch into Pokemon such as Sawsbuck as well as Pokemon locked into unfavorable moves, such as Choice Scarf Raichu locked into Thunderbolt. When using Will-O-Wisp, watch out for Fire-types such as Rapidash and Guts users such as Ursaring, as they can absorb burn and use it to their advantage, as well as take advantage of a Choice-locked Gourgeist. Save Trick for a setup sweeper such as Clefairy or Klang so that you can lock it into an unfavorable move and remove its Eviolite, but be wary that once Gourgeist loses its Choice Scarf it won't be able to outspeed Pokemon such as Zebstrika and use Destiny Bond effectively. Only use Destiny Bond when you are sure that an opposing Pokemon is about to knock Gourgeist out; if you mispredict, Gourgeist will be locked into Destiny Bond, which the opponent can take advantage of. Water-types such as Simipour and Swanna are able to take on Fire-types for Gourgeist. Fire-types such as Rapidash and Ninetales can handle Ice-types such as Regice and Rotom-F, which threaten Gourgeist, while Gourgeist takes on Water-types such as Politoed for them. Bulky setup sweepers such as Klang and Beheeyem appreciate Gourgeist's ability to get rid of their threats with Destiny Bond, aiding their sweep. Stealth Rock support from Relicanth and Golem is good for dealing chip damage to the opposing team, as Gourgeist forces many switches thanks to Trick and Will-O-Wisp, and they can also take on Fire-types and Flying-types for Gourgeist. Gourgeist could run a Substitute + Leech Seed set to wear down its foes along with Will-O-Wisp, but Gourgeist-S is better at this role thanks to its superior Speed. Gourgeist could run a physically defensive spread of 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 Def with Will-O-Wisp, Synthesis, Foul Play, and Seed Bomb to better function as a spinblocker, although Gourgeist-XL outclasses it in this role. Magic Coat is an option that allows Gourgeist to bounce back status moves such as Toxic and Will-O-Wisp, but it is not recommended, as locking Gourgeist into Magic Coat will allow the opponent to take advantage of it. Fire Blast could be used to hit Grass-types such as Tangela, but Gourgeist lacks the space for it and it is quite weak. Shadow Sneak could be used to pick off foes such as Kadabra, but Gourgeist does not have the moveslot for it. Explosion could be used to get a teammate in safely without relying on the opposing Pokemon to attack, but it does not affect Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus, and does little damage to Steel-types such as Probopass. Phantom Force could be used over Seed Bomb for more power, but it makes Gourgeist vulnerable to Normal-types such as Stoutland and takes two turns to use.
Gourgeist (SM competitive strategy): Gourgeist, while overshadowed by Tangela as a defensive pivot, is able to carve out a niche as Z-Move user thanks to its good Speed tier that allows it to outspeed the unboosted metagame after a Z-Trick-or-Treat, bar Ninjask and Electrode. Z-Trick-or-Treat also gives it a considerable amount of bulk and increased Attack, though it's still quite lackluster compared to that of other setup sweepers. Even though Gourgeist struggles as a defensive pivot, it's still able to wall foes like Primeape due to its Ghost / Grass typing. While Gourgeist has quite a shallow physical movepool, with its lack of a strong Ghost-type STAB move other than Phantom Force meaning it has to put up with the charge turn, it just about gets by with attacks like Return, Seed Bomb, Shadow Sneak, and Rock Slide. Z-Trick-or-Treat boosts all of Gourgeist's stats apart from HP while also adding Ghost typing to the foe. Phantom Force is the preferred Ghost-type STAB move, but the fact that it takes a turn to charge means that it is easily exploited by foes, especially Normal-types. Shadow Sneak is an alternative, albeit weaker STAB move that doesn't require a turn to charge and gives Gourgeist priority against fast Choice Scarf users like Jynx. Alternatively, Return allows Gourgeist to hit Pokemon like Skuntank harder and gives it almost perfect neutral coverage. Rock Slide is an option to hit Fire-types, like Turtonator and Simisear. Ghostium Z is 100% required for this set to function, as without it Gourgeist isn't able to use Z-Trick-or-Treat. Running 160 Speed EVs ensures it outspeeds all of the unboosted tier apart from Electrode and Ninjask, both of which can do little to Gourgeist. Frisk is not a very useful ability when used on this Gourgeist set, as it will not be pivoting in to try and wall something, but it's the best ability Gourgeist has access to due to it already being immune to most sleep-inducing moves. Frisk still has some utility in being able to scout the foe's item. Gourgeist should only really be used late-game, when your opponent's team is weakened and ready to be swept, as using it early-game would generally put you at a significant disadvantage versus anything that's not offense. It should attempt to set up on something that's ineffective against it, like Primeape, and shouldn't try to boost against special attackers. Gourgeist appreciates being pivoted in by slow U-turn or Volt Switch users so that it doesn't receive any damage before being able to boost. Even though at +1 Gourgeist outspeeds almost all of the metagame, it is still slower than almost every Choice Scarf user, so it should only use its Z-Move once these faster threats like Choice Scarf Dodrio are dealt with. The same goes for physically bulky Pokemon like Gurdurr and Tangela, which should be either KOed or sufficiently weakened. Gourgeist, even at +1 Attack, is often still very weak, so it appreciates entry hazard support from the likes of Regirock and Qwilfish to help deal chip damage on the opponent's Pokemon. Slow Volt Switch and U-turn from teammates like Lanturn and Type: Null helps Gourgeist get in for free. Lanturn additionally has great defensive synergy with Gourgeist, as it resists both Fire and Flying and offers Heal Bell support. Toxic Spikes absorbers like Skuntank greatly help during the match, as Toxic Spikes cripple Gourgeist and limit its sweeping potential. Skuntank can also trap foes with Pursuit and remove all hazards with Defog. Powerful wallbreakers like Aurorus and Zangoose are able to weaken the opponent's team enough for Gourgeist to potentially sweep later on. Gourgeist can run Jolly over Adamant, allowing it to outspeed threats such as Choice Scarf Alolan Sandslash and Choice Scarf Kabutops; however, it really needs all the extra Attack it can get from an Adamant nature. Fire Blast with a Naughty Nature is a niche option, able to hit Pokemon like Shiftry and Alolan Sandslash, but it doesn't offer much besides that. Explosion is a potential move in the last slot, allowing for a powerful nuke. A defensive set is possible but is noticeably worse in comparison to Tangelap due to its lesser bulk and lack of Regenerator, meaning things like Hitmonchan, which Tangela counters, can 2HKO it after Stealth Rock chip damage.
Gourgeist (SS competitive strategy): Gourgeist is completely eclipsed by its smaller forme due to its lower Speed, which causes it to get outpaced by threats like Sawk, the Silvally formes, and Rotom. Apart from its marginally better HP and Attack, which fails to net any noteworthy benchmarks, there is no reason to use Gourgeist over Gourgeist-S at all. Gourgeist can try to surprise foes with Weakness Policy, taking advantage of weak Knock Off users such as Throh and defensive Uxie and outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame at +1. However, this set relies more on surprise factor rather than possessing truly unique positives, and even at +1, it is slower than Choice Scarf users like Sawk and Silvally, while Gourgeist-S can outspeed them.
Walking Wake (SV competitive strategy): Choice Specs Walking Wake is a powerful wallbreaker and a staple on sun teams due to its signature Hydro Steam, Protosynthesis, unique offensive typing, and great offensive stats. Draco Meteor is a brutally powerful STAB move that synergizes wonderfully with Hydro Steam, capable of OHKOing Water-resistant Pokemon including the likes of Ogerpon-W and Raging Bolt, in addition to 2HKOing nearly every Pokemon in the metagame barring Fairy-types such as Clefable and Primarina. A Fire coverage gives it a strong attack that takes advantage of the weather, guranteeing OHKOs on bulky variants of Kingambit and Gholdengo that it otherwise couldn't; Flamethrower's less reliance on the weather makes it the better choice, but Weather Ball and its higher power is also a fine alternative. Dragon Pulse can be used in the last slot, which forgoes Draco Meteor's raw power for more consistency; however, Flip Turn allows Walking Wake to generate momentum for its team, taking advantage of switch-ins from the likes of Galarian Slowking, Primarina, and Assault Vest Alomomola to safely bring in its teammates. Knock Off is an alternative option that allows it to cripple the aforementioned checks, making them easier to overwhelm by itself. A Timid nature and 244 Special Attack EVs give Walking Wake a Speed boost from Protosynthesis while still maximizing its damage output, making it a potent late-game cleaner against offensive teams due to its power coupled with its heightened Speed, letting it outspeed and threaten would-be revenge killers like Dragapult and Choice Scarf Enamorus. Alternatively, Walking Wake can sacrifice the Speed boost for even more power by fully investing in Special Attack, allowing it to break through the likes of Primarina through sheer strength; a Modest nature may also be considered to maximize Walking Wake's damage output, at the cost of being slower than Iron Crown, Iron Treads, and Enamorus. Tera Water boosts its Hydro Steam's power even further, bolstering its cleaning potential against offense while 2HKOing even resistant Pokemon such as Toxapex after Stealth Rock, and allows Walking Wake to 2HKO even Blissey should it opt for a Special Attack boost; however, Tera Fairy could be considered as an alternative, granting it an immunity to Draco Meteor from Dragapult and opposing Walking Wake as well as a resistance to Kingambit's Sucker Punch. While Choice Specs is the prefered item due to the massive increase in damage that they offer, Mystic Water and Wise Glasses are alternatives that trade power for the flexibility to switch up moves. Walking Wake is a mainstay on sun teams, requiring either Ninetales or Torkoal to set the sun with Drought. Ninetales can further support Walking Wake with Encore to punish passive options and allow Walking Wake relatively safe entry and Healing Wish to provide Walking Wake with a second chance to wallbreak or sweep late-game. Torkoal, by comparison, can also set Stealth Rock, which makes defensively answering Walking Wake even more difficult, as checks such as Primarina would repeatedly have to sustain chip damage. Hatterene and Great Tusk are also great teammates for Walking Wake, alleviating the issue of entry hazards limiting its longevity; Hatterene is also capable of forcing out checks such as Toxapex and Iron Valiant, while Great Tusk can check priority revenge killers such as Dragonite and Kingambit. In return, Walking Wake can consistently KO or force out either Pokemon's checks, notably taking on Skarmory for Great Tusk and Heatran for Hatterene. Hisuian Lilligant and Venusaur can threaten Water-types such as Primarina and Ogerpon-W; both also appreciate Walking Wake blowing holes into the opposing team's defenses, giving them ample opportunity to run off with the game after their checks have been weakened. Lastly, Raging Bolt greatly enjoys Walking Wake's efficiency in dismantling its checks, notably Unaware Clodsire, as doing so enables Raging Bolt to sweep more efficiently in mid- or late-game scenarios. Walking Wake functions as a decently fast pivot that is able to unleash powerful STAB attacks, force progress on certain Pokemon via Knock Off, and pivot out of bad matchups with Flip Turn. Surf's higher damage output is more valuable against targets like Gliscor, Clefable, and Garganacl, which can absorb status effects and Knock Off but cannot reliably switch into Surf unless Terastallized. However, Scald still deals solid damage and can be used to potentially inflict burn, which can cripple certain foes looking to switch into a Water-type move such as Rillaboom, Choice Band Dragapult, and Assault Vest Hisuian Samurott. Knock Off allows Walking Wake to cripple certain defensive pivots with the switches it forces such as Galarian Slowking, Primarina, Assault Vest Alomomola, and Tornadus-T. Knock Off also helps with removing Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon such as Toxapex and Blissey, which can be amazing for entry hazard-stacking structures. Flip Turn allows Walking Wake to keep up momentum versus Pokemon it has already left itemless, as well as chipping switch-ins such as Clefable. Tera Water enhances Walking Wake's damage output further, allowing it to achieve feats such as always OHKOing specially defensive Gliscor after Stealth Rock, always 2HKOing maximum HP Clefable, and more easily 2HKOing threats like Zamazenta and maximum HP Pecharunt. It can also be used to shed Walking Wake's Fairy and Dragon weaknesses in a pinch. Tera Fairy provides a crucial immunity to Dragon, which can help versus the plethora of relevant Dragon-types that threaten Walking Wake such as Dragapult, Raging Bolt, and Latios. Tera Steel can also be used as it provides a similar safety net against opposing Dragon-Types and a crucial resistance to Fairy-type moves such as Enamorus's and Iron Valiant's Moonblast as well as Kyurem's Freeze-Dry. Walking Wake finds itself at home on entry hazard-stacking teams, as its ability to forcefully remove Heavy-Duty Boots from some Pokemon is very much appreciated. Hence, Stealth Rock and Spikes-setting Pokemon pair very well with it, such as Great Tusk, Tinkaton, Ting-Lu, and Gliscor. Walking Wake's ability to force out and threaten common Knock Off absorbers, such as Gliscor and Corviknight, greatly benefits these Pokemon in return. Walking Wake is commonly answered by most Fairy-type Pokemon such as Hatterene, Enamorus, and Primarina, so checks to these threats such as Gholdengo, Pecharunt, Galarian Slowking, and Corviknight are required; the latter three can help pivot in Walking Wake safely. Gholdengo is also an amazing partner, as it can block Defog and Rapid Spin for Walking Wake's teammates, allowing hazard pressure to remain. Other Rapid Spin blockers such as Sinistcha and Pecharunt are also relevant for this role. Dragapult is another threat to Walking Wake, so Pokemon such as the aforementioned Ting-Lu as well as other checks such as Kingambit and Garganacl may be utilized. Pokemon commonly found on such archetypes that can check Ogerpon-W such as Zamazenta and pivot Ogerpon are amazing teammates to have. Ogerpon, in particular, forms a great offensive core with Walking Wake, threatening its checks such as Tera Water Garganacl, Alomomola, and Blissey while still keeping momentum with U-turn. Powerful wallbreakers such as Swords Dance Iron Valiant, Choice Band Zamazenta, and Dragapult also appreciate Walking Wake's ability to force progress against their checks such as Galarian Slowking.
Sylveon (XY competitive strategy): Sylveon is one of the best wallbreakers in the UnderUsed tier thanks to Pixilate Hyper Voice being able to blast past frail resistant Pokemon. Its mono-Fairy typing allows it to switch into strong and powerful Dark-, Dragon-, and Fighting-type moves such as Hydreigon's Draco Meteor and Heracross's Close Combat. Sylveon's 95 / 130 special bulk allows it to check some moderately powerful special attackers even if uninvested. Sylveon also gives Florges competition as a cleric, since it has more physical bulk and a more powerful STAB attack. It does, however, lack one-turn recovery unlike Florges. Unfortunately, Sylveon's physical bulk is decidedly mediocre when uninvested, meaning that most strong neutral attacks, and even some resisted ones, can 2HKO it. Also, most Dragon-types generally carry coverage for Fairy-types, meaning Sylveon has to play carefully around them. Furthermore, Sylveon is also held back by a less than stellar base 60 Speed, meaning it can't do much against faster teams that apply a ton of offensive pressure. Hyper Voice is Sylveon's go-to move, as, thanks to Pixilate, it becomes a very powerful STAB move that also bypasses Substitutes. Psyshock provides coverage against Poison-types such as Nidoqueen, Nidoking, and Crobat, although Hyper Voice can blow past these checks with just a little bit of prior damage. Hidden Power Fire is Sylveon's best option for Steel-types such as Escavalier and specially defensive Forretress. Shadow Ball is used to nail Pokemon such as Metagross and Bronzong harder than its other moves. Hidden Power Ground can be another option over Hidden Power Fire to gain excellent neutral coverage in conjunction with its STAB Hyper Voice. Maximum Special Attack and Speed EVs allow Sylveon to hit as hard and as fast as possible. Pixilate allows Sylveon to have a more powerful Fairy-type STAB attack in Hyper Voice. A Modest nature bolsters Sylveon's great base 110 Special Attack, while a Timid nature can surprise opponents by letting Sylveon outspeed more threats while not missing out on any key OHKOs or 2HKOs. Choice Specs further boosts Sylveon's power. Sylveon is best used on bulky offense teams that appreciate a very powerful wallbreaker with a great all-around typing. Sylveon is fairly physically frail, though, so it must be wary of switching into or staying in on powerful neutral hits, as it has no form of recovery. Sylveon should be wary of certain Dragon-types such as Hydreigon, as they could be carrying coverage for it. Sylveon should look for any opportunity to come in safely and proceed to spam Hyper Voice to wear down its checks and counters. Even without investment, Hyper Voice is still a moderately powerful STAB move thanks to Pixilate and can still 2HKO certain offensive Pokemon, but it fails to take care of more bulky threats such as Suicune. Heal Bell gives cleric support to the team. Wish allows Sylveon to heal itself and its teammates. Protect allows Sylveon to scout the opponent while guaranteeing it can heal itself. Maximum HP and Defense EVs give Sylveon as much physical bulk as possible. A Bold nature further reinforces Sylveon's below-average Defense stat. Leftovers gives Sylveon a way to passively recover HP. Pixilate is used because Sylveon can still hit hard with Hyper Voice even with no investment. An EV spread of 252 HP / 240 Def / 16 SpD with a Calm nature allows Sylveon to take advantage of its amazing base 130 Special Defense while still investing in its Defense. A Bold nature can allow Sylveon to avoid the 2HKO from Choice Band Heracross while having a harder time against strong special attackers such as Kyurem and Mega Sceptile. A Calm nature, however, can let Sylveon take on specially attacking threats better but at the cost of losing to those physical attackers. This set works better on more balanced teams, as it can offer up big Wishes as well as being able to take on some massive threats such as Hydreigon. This set, despite the defensive investment, still needs to be wary of powerful neutral physical hits, as Sylveon can take quite a bit from Choice Band Entei, Choice Band Crobat, Mamoswine, and Mega Swampert. Steel-types that appreciate Wish support such as Mega Aggron and Mega Steelix resist Sylveon's Steel weakness and are immune to Sylveon's Poison weakness, while Sylveon can take on Fighting-types for them. Dragon-types such as Hydreigon give the team more offensive presence, and while both have access to reliable recovery, they appreciate Sylveon's cleric support because they no longer have to worry about being crippled by status. They also are able to switch into Fire-types such as Entei that can switch into Sylveon with ease. Water-types such as Suicune and Swampert take advantage of Sylveon's fat Wishes while also taking on powerful Fire-types such as Entei. Entry hazard removal from Pokemon like Crobat, Tentacruel, and Empoleon makes sure that Sylveon doesn't get worn down itself while keeping the team at an advantage against the opponent. A Calm Mind set with Pixie Plate can bluff Choice Specs and surprise some of Sylveon's checks and counters. Quick Attack can help pick off weakened threats, but it lacks power due to Sylveon's less than stellar base 65 Attack. Lastly, Hyper Beam can give Sylveon a very powerful nuke, but the recharge turn can give the opposing Pokemon setup opportunities.
Sylveon (SM competitive strategy): Sylveon is one of the best clerics in the tier thanks to its mono-Fairy typing allowing it to switch into strong and powerful Dragon-, Dark-, and Fighting-type moves such as Latias and Hydreigon's Draco Meteor, Krookodile's Knock Off, and Infernape's Close Combat. It also has access to Wish and Heal Bell, which allows it to keep its teammates healthy throughout a match and get rid of potentially damaging status conditions. Additionally, it can take most unboosted special attacks due to its superb special bulk and can retaliate with a strong Pixilate-boosted Hyper Voice. However, some special attackers such as Volcanion and Primarina can 2HKO Sylveon in spite of its bulk. Latias in particular can beat Sylveon with a combination of Calm Mind and Roost. Sylveon is further held back by its mediocre base 65 Defense stat, which means it is 2HKOed by some physical attackers, such as Choice Band Infernape and Terrakion, even with maximum investment. Furthermore, it also has weaknesses to common Poison- and Steel-type moves from the likes of Scizor and Nidoking. It also faces competition from Florges, which trades a lower Defense stat and weaker attacks for more Speed and access to a one-turn recovery move. Even uninvested, Hyper Voice hits decently hard thanks to Pixilate and can land some KOs on frailer Pokemon such as Mega Sceptile, and as such, it is the main attacking move. Additionally, it can hit through Substitute, which can be useful to deal with Pokemon such as Kyurem. Wish is Sylveon's only recovery option and can also heal up teammates. Protect is used to scout for foes' sets and heal Sylveon up safely. Heal Bell gets rid of status conditions for teammates consistently, as Sylveon is often able to come in many times due to its bulk, while also letting it last longer in a match by preventing it from being worn down by status. Maximum HP and Defense investment allows Sylveon to pass larger Wishes to its teammates as well as better check Dragon- and Dark-types such as Mega Altaria and Mega Sharpedo. Leftovers gives Sylveon a form of passive recovery. Pixilate allows Sylveon to hit as hard as possible with Hyper Voice. Come in on a Pokemon that Sylveon walls, such as Mega Sceptile or Hydreigon, and use Wish if you need to replenish the HP of Sylveon or use Hyper Voice to chip down frailer switch-ins like Mega Beedrill if this is not the case. Be careful of using Protect, however, as it could allow offensive threats such as Nidoking and Scizor to switch in freely, the latter being able to use it as a setup opportunity. Sylveon should also not nonchalantly use Wish at every opportunity, as it has limited PP. while its teammates may benefit from the recovery, it is Sylveon's only form of effective recovery. Lastly, be careful not to let Sylveon take stronger physical attacks such as those from Mamoswine, Terrakion, and Choice Band Infernape due to its middling Defense stat. Sylveon generally fits on more bulky or balanced teams that appreciate that Wish support and its useful defensive typing. Bulky Water-types such as Swampert, Mantine, and Suicune can take on Steel-types such as Mega Steelix and Klefki as well as Fire-types. In return, Sylveon takes on prominent Dragon-types like Hydreigon and Latias while also keeping them healthy with Wish, something the aforementioned bulky Water-types would otherwise struggle with due to their lack of recovery or weakness to entry hazards. Tentacruel is especially good, since it resists Poison- and Steel-type attacks and can keep entry hazards off the field, thus taking pressure off Sylveon to keep itself healthy. Sylveon also likes Psychic-types such as Celebi, Mew, and Latias, which can get rid of Poison-types such as Amoonguss and Tentacruel. Steel-types such as Mega Steelix, Mega Aggron, Doublade, and Scizor make good partners because they resist both of Sylveon's weaknesses, enjoy Sylveon's ability to keep them healthy with Wish and stomach many physical attacks, which Sylveon struggles with due to its low Defense stat. Doublade, in particular, can also take on the likes of Cobalion and Terrakion, which can overwhelm and remove Sylveon. Offensive Pokemon such as Latias and Cobalion like Sylveon's ability to keep them healthy and cure them of status like poison and burn that limit their sweeping capabilities. Rock-types like Mega Aerodactyl, Rhyperior, and Nihilego also make great partners, as they are able to take on the Fire-types like Rotom-H and Moltres that Sylveon is unable to break past, and the latter can even stall it out of Heal Bell PP through the combination of Toxic and Pain Split. These partners also appreciate Sylveon making up for their lack of recovery, with this only applying to Mega Aerodactyl if it opts to run an all-out attacker set. Hidden Power Fire is an alternative option over Heal Bell that can be used to 2HKO bulky Scizor and OHKO offensive Scizor. Toxic can be used in order to cripple Pokemon like Hippowdon and Moltres and better check Calm Mind Latias, which would otherwise set up on a Sylveon that tries to switch in, but it is hard to justify using over Heal Bell.
Sylveon (SS competitive strategy): Sylveon distinguishes itself as a prominent Fairy-type, punishing attackers like Guzzlord, Passimian, and Scrafty. Sylveon's defensive set also has enough natural special bulk to prevent Inteleon and Life Orb Starmie from breaking through it. Its Wish and Heal Bell support is also relevant, as many Pokemon that form good defensive cores with Sylveon, like Copperajah and Guzzlord, lack reliable recovery themselves. When it opts for Choice Specs, Sylveon is a potent wallbreaker that lures in checks like Copperajah and Salazzle to dent them with Mystical Fire and Psyshock. However, Sylveon will still struggle against Steel- and Poison-types like Copperajah, Escavalier, and Vileplume when locked into Hyper Voice or when it lacks coverage. Defensive Sylveon's passivity and reliance on Protect to secure its recovery can also let in wallbreakers and setup sweepers like Protect makes Wish a reliable recovery move and scouts Choice-locked wallbreakers like Tyrantrum and Exploud. Heal Bell allows Sylveon to preform as a cleric and remove Toxic poison. If a cleric is less desirable for the team, Mystical Fire offers coverage against targets like Vileplume and Escavalier. Leftovers provides passive recovery and pairs well with Protect, but Heavy-Duty Boots can be considered so Sylveon has a better defense against Spikes and Toxic Spikes. The EV investment allows Sylveon to avoid a 2HKO from Life Orb Starmie while still being bulky enough to switch into Close Combat from Choice Band Passimian. Wish support works great with specially defensive Steel-types like Copperajah and Escavalier, as they lack their own recovery and have valuable resistances for Sylveon to rely on. Other walls that lack recovery like Mudsdale and Guzzlord enjoy the support as well, and they help cover Sylveon's vulnerabilities to attackers like Drapion and Salazzle, respectively. Arcanine and Talonflame are valuable for checking Steel-types, and they spread Toxic against other walls like Mantine, which Sylveon will then be able to outstall. Offensive teammates like Salazzle and Golurk target the defensive Steel- and Poison-types that give Sylveon trouble. Mystical Fire hits bulky Steel-types such as Copperajah and Escavalier and 2HKOes Vileplume. Psyshock deals with Poison-types such as Salazzle and Garbodor. The last moveslot is not very important, but Heal Bell is a good choice for balance teams that need a cleric option. While a Modest nature is preferred for more wallbreaking power, a Timid nature can be used to outspeed wallbreakers like Jolly Golurk, neutral-natured Decidueye, and Modest Exploud. Choice Specs Sylveon works best on balance and bulky offense teams as a strong wallbreaker. Although Sylveon can lure in and heavily damage bulky Steel-types such as Copperajah and Escavalier with its coverage moves, this relies on proper prediction, and these Steel-types also prevent it from freely using Hyper Voice and take huge advantage of it once it is locked into this move. Therefore, a check to them such as Guzzlord, Arcanine, or Talonflame is recommended. Electric-types such as Heliolisk and Rotom-C provide Volt Switch support, chip down opposing Steel-types, and check special defensive Mantine, which Sylveon struggles with. Rock- and Water-types like Diancie, Tyrantrum, and Vaporeon check Fire-types like Talonflame, Arcanine, and Salazzle, which either reliably pivot into or offensively check Sylveon. Late-game cleaners such as Choice Scarf Heliolisk, Kingdra, and Tauros benefit from Sylveon's ability to weaken or even remove opposing Steel-types and take advantage of its common checks such as Mantine and Talonflame. Calm Mind is an option for Sylveon to function as a defensive sweeper. Toxic also works versus walls like Talonflame and Vaporeon, although Sylveon is even more vulnerable to its offensive checks as a result.
Sylveon (SV competitive strategy): Sylveon's great matchup against top threats like Scrafty and Flygon alongside its set versatility makes it one of the premier Fairy-types in NU. Wallbreaking sets can break through common special walls like Alolan Muk and Gastrodon. Sylveon can also run a more defensive set, letting it heal up teammates that it naturally synergizes with like Incineroar, Registeel, and Swampert that lack reliable recovery. Sylveon has great Special Defense, letting it take on special wallbreakers like Inteleon and Diancie with little or no investment. However, both of Sylveon's roles are contested by another Fairy-type, namely Florges, as Florges has access to Trick for Choice Specs sets as a way to decommission Steel-types and special walls, and it has higher Speed, meaning its wallbreaking sets can outpace more threats and Wish passing sets can invest more in its Defense. On top of that, Sylveon must compete with other Wish passers such as Vaporeon and Scream Tail, which can provide more utility at times with the former having access to Haze and Flip Turn, while the latter can provide Thunder Wave and Encore. Sylveon is also walled immensely by Steel-types like Copperajah and Registeel, but their lack of recovery leaves them susceptible to being worn down over the course of a game. Wish sets also tend to be passive and easily taken advantage of by the aforementioned Steel-types and setup sweepers like Munkidori and Incineroar. Sylveon's subpar Defense can also let it be broken through, as it's typically forced to take Knock Off for its team all while being whittled away at by entry hazards. Psychic allows Sylveon to hit Poison-types like Dragalge, Amoonguss, and Toxtricity super effectively. However, Psyshock can be run to hit Tentacruel and both Tera Poison Bronzong harder. Shadow Ball gives Sylveon a strong neutral move for the Steel-types that tend to switch into Sylveon like Klefki, Registeel, and Copperajah, and notably, it hits Bronzong super effectively. As Sylveon's last moveslot is its most flexible one, it prefers to run Draining Kiss as a secondary STAB move so that it doesn't get chipped away at as easily. Tera Blast Ground can instead be used to hit the aforementioned non-Bronzong Steel-types that could sit on Sylveon otherwise; however, due to this requiring Terastallization, it typically isn't run. A Modest nature is preferred for the extra damage output, but Timid can be run to outspeed Adamant Incineroar. Tera Fairy allows Sylveon to reach catastrophic levels of damage with its Hyper Voice, as it's now able to 2HKO Fairy-resistant Pokemon like Rotom-H and Galarian Slowbro. Sylveon's main roadblock from tearing apart teams is bulky Steel-types like Registeel, Copperajah, and Klefki; however, due to their lack of recovery, there are a few ways its teammates can whittle them down. Entry hazard setters like Brambleghast, Swampert, and Flygon can help to soften up these Steel-types for Sylveon's attacks. Another way to break through these Pokemon is teammates that carry super effective coverage to surprise these Steel-types like Close Combat Staraptor, Focus Blast or Tera Blast Ground Munkidori, and Focus Blast Dragalge. It can also go through more straightforward means such as having a partner like Paldean Tauros formes, Incineroar, or Flygon to pressure these Steel-types. Incineroar, Flygon, and Infernape greatly enjoy Sylveon as a partner, as they can pivot it in on physically defensive Water-types like Milotic, Swampert, and Vaporeon that wall them. Choice Scarf users like Munkidori, Meloetta, and Porygon-Z enjoy Sylveon wearing away at Steel-types like Copperajah, Klefki, and Registeel. Sylveon easily dispatches Dark-types like Incineroar, Scrafty, and Alolan Muk. Teammates that benefit from this like Meloetta, Galarian Articuno, and Brambleghast pair well alongside Sylveon, as they can form a wallbreaking core together. Calm Mind allows Sylveon to use defensive walls like Vaporeon in its favor, as it can set up on them to become more threatening. On the other hand, Roar prevents Sylveon from needing to risk certain Calm Mind wars like those versus Scream Tail, Galarian Articuno, and Bronzong, and it doubles as a way to get extra chip damage on Steel-types trying to switch in, forcing them out to rack up entry hazard damage. The Speed EVs allow Sylveon to get the jump on Vaporeon, letting Sylveon avoid having its stat boosts thrown away by Vaporeon's Haze before it can get a hit off. Tera Steel is preferred, as it allows Sylveon to better handle Poison- and Steel-types like Amoonguss and Copperajah, provides an immunity to Gligar's Toxic, and lets it soft check many special attackers in a pinch like Munkidori, Porygon-Z, and Toxtricity. Tera Poison, on the other hand, maintains Sylveon's matchup against Fighting-types while keeping Tera Steel's utility against Toxic users and poison from Alolan Muk. Alternatively, Tera Water provides a strong defensive typing that doesn't forfeit Sylveon's matchup against both Ground- and Fighting-types like Flygon and Infernape. Leftovers prevents Sylveon from having to use Wish as often and lets it heal with Protect, but Heavy-Duty Boots is useful to circumvent entry hazard chip damage. Sylveon's access to Wish means it can support Pokemon without reliable recovery like Swampert, Bronzong, and Incineroar. Pokemon like Basculegion-M, Munkidori, and Registeel that are scared out by Wo-Chien, Flygon, and Heracross enjoy having Sylveon to check these threats. Alongside a specially defensive partner like Alolan Muk, Gastrodon, or Copperajah, Sylveon can help to form a defensive backbone for teams. Sylveon also appreciates wallbreakers like Paldean Tauros-W, Flygon, and Chandelure, as they can pressure Steel-types that typically wall and take advantage of it like Klefki, Copperajah, and Bronzong. Due to Sylveon's reliance on Protect to safely heal, it's vulnerable to setup sweepers like Drednaw, Munkidori, and Paldean Tauros formes, meaning Choice Scarf revenge killers like Ditto or Pokemon with priority like Flygon pair well with it. Sylveon also tends to be a momentum sink, so pivots like Flygon, Incineroar, and Flamigo that do well versus common switch-ins like Alolan Muk, Registeel, and Copperajah can help regain lost momentum. As Sylveon can be easily chipped down by entry hazards and having to switch into Knock Off and U-turn from Pokemon like Incineroar, a second soft check to physical attackers is welcome, so partners like Scyther, Amoonguss, and Dragalge work well to fulfill this role. Due to Choice Specs Sylveon already having all the coverage it needs from its first three slots, it can run many moves for its last. Sylveon can opt for Quick Attack as a means to pick off weakened threats. Hyper Beam can be used as a nuke button that's able to chip away at Steel-types heavily but leaves it open the next turn. Sylveon can even forgo Choice Specs entirely and go for a Pixie Plate set that allows it to bluff Choice Specs, surprising its opponent when it changes up its moves; however, Sylveon's overall power drops. On Wish sets, Moonblast + Cute Charm can be run on bulkier teams, as Moonblast has higher PP than Hyper Voice, and if Sylveon is female, it can fish for immobilization via attraction against Pokemon forced to be male like Hitmonlee and Tornadus.
Klinklang (XY competitive strategy): Klinklang is NU's premier late-game sweeper thanks to an excellent setup move in Shift Gear, which boosts its Speed by two stages and Attack by one stage. Solid natural bulk with a great defensive typing that gives it many resistances lets it set up on a good majority of the metagame, most notably Calm Mind Psychic-types. While its Speed isn't the greatest before it sets up, after a Shift Gear it outspeeds almost every Pokemon, even the ones with Speed-boosting items. However, Klinklang has a poor early- to mid-game presence due to its Attack being very lacking before a boost. Very limited coverage does not help Klinklang's case either, as it is easily walled by any bulky Pokemon that resists Gear Grind. Its typing also leaves it susceptible to three very common attacking types in Fighting, Fire, and Ground, causing it to struggle to find an opportunity to set up. Shift Gear boosts Klinklang's Speed by two stages and its Attack by one stage, letting Klinklang outspeed a good majority of Pokemon when boosted, making it an essential move for sweeping. Gear Grind is Klinklang's most powerful STAB attack and hits the foe twice, breaking past Substitutes, Sturdy, and Focus Sashes. Return has decent neutral coverage and hits Pokemon that resist Gear Grind such as Lanturn, Pyroar, Samurott, and Ludicolo. Substitute is very important for Klinklang to avoid any crippling status ailments such as burn and paralysis, both of which stop its sweep. Magnet Rise is another option which assists Klinklang in setting up on a lot of common Ground-types, such as Rhydon, Torterra, Claydol, and, most importantly, Steelix. Wild Charge can be used as a coverage option to hit Poliwrath, Pelipper, Mantine, and Prinplup, but this leaves Klinklang walled by Electric-types if used over Return. Maximum Attack EVs plus an Adamant nature allow Klinklang to hit as hard as possible, while 176 Speed EVs allow Klinklang to outspeed neutral-natured base 80 Speed Pokemon, such as Shiftry and Kabutops. The rest of the EVs go into HP to increase its overall bulk, making it easier to set up. Klinklang can customize its EV spread to outspeed even more Pokemon before a boost; 160 HP / 252 Atk / 96 Spe allows it to outspeed neutral-natured base 70 Speed Pokemon as well as base 95 Speed Choice Scarf users after a boost, while 40 HP / 252 Atk / 216 Spe lets it outspeed Adamant Pinsir. Clear Body prevents Klinklang's Attack from being lowered by Intimidate, as well as preventing the Speed drop from Sticky Web. Leftovers is chosen for passive recovery, allowing Klinklang to set up more Substitutes if needed. Generally, it's best to save Klinklang for mid- to late-game when its checks and counters have been sufficiently weakened. Bring in Klinklang against a Pokemon that cannot deal much damage in return, such as Scyther, Mesprit, or non-Heat Wave Xatu. Use Substitute against any predicted status move, against a Pokemon that cannot do much in return, or on forced switches. Substitute is also useful for scouting status moves, Leech Seed, and super effective coverage moves. Once the opposing team is significantly weakened, use Shift Gear to boost Klinklang's damage output, and choose the appropriate move to hit the foe with from there. Grass-types such as Lilligant, Shiftry, Cacturne, and Vileplume all make for great teammates, as they threaten Water-types that check Klinklang, such as Gastrodon, Lanturn, Poliwrath, and Quagsire. Fire-types, such as Magmortar and Pyroar, can cover the vulnerability to Steelix Klinklang gains when running Substitute instead of Magnet Rise; they are also helpful to block Will-O-Wisps and threaten Ferroseed and Vileplume, which are much easier to handle with Substitute. Additionally, Cacturne provides Spikes support for Klinklang, making it easier to sweep teams, and a useful Water-type immunity, which can cover the non-Substitute variant's weakness to Scald. Life Orb Samurott is a good partner, as it's able to break past several answers to Klinklang such as Steelix and Weezing. Mesprit, Xatu, and Musharna are also great teammates thanks to their ability to threaten Poliwrath, Weezing, and Garbodor. Mesprit in particular has access to Stealth Rock to support Klinklang, as well as U-turn to help bring it in safely, while also having Healing Wish to bring Klinklang back to full HP and rid it of any status conditions. Hex Rotom is an interesting partner, as it lures in Steelix and Lanturn, weakening them significantly for Klinklang. Scyther is able to switch in and threaten Fighting-types, as well as lure in Pokemon that Klinklang can use as setup bait, such as Mawile and Ferroseed. Scyther also has good synergy with Klinklang because of its immunity to Ground and resistance to Fighting and Klinklang's ability to cover Scyther's Ice-, Rock-, and Flying-type weaknesses. Powerful wallbreakers such as Archeops, Aurorus, and Life Orb Magmortar can weaken teams significantly, paving the way for Klinklang to clean late-game. Garbodor is a great partner, as it switches into Fighting-types relatively well and supports Klinklang with Spikes and Toxic Spikes. Toxic Spikes in particular pairs very well with Klinklang because it wears down threats that prevent a Klinklang sweep such as Gastrodon and Barrier Musharna. A more offensive Shift Gear set consisting of Gear Grind / Return / Hidden Power Grass with a Life Orb is another option, as it lures in most answers to Klinklang, but this comes at the cost of sacrificing most of its defensive qualities, making it inferior. Magnetic Flux in conjunction with either Plus or Minus is another option to boost Klinklang's defenses, but doing so forces Klinklang to sacrifice Substitute, making Klinklang vulnerable to status ailments. Volt Switch is an interesting option on Klinklang, as it enables Klinklang to pivot out of unfavorable situations, letting it retain offensive momentum.
Klinklang (SM competitive strategy): Klinklang is a very fearsome sweeper because of its access to Shift Gear. Its Steel typing gives it a few useful resistances, which, in conjunction with its good natural bulk, allows it to set up on many threatening Pokemon such as Garbodor, Sneasel, and Whimsicott. Unfortunately, Klinklang struggles to do anything to sturdy checks like Steelix, Silvally-Steel, and Pyukumuku, which can all hard wall Klinklang due to its lack of coverage options. While Klinklang does have a good number of resistances, it's also weak to a lot of common types such as Fire, Fighting, and Ground; however, it can work around the latter and potentially use Ground-types as setup bait with Magnet Rise. Shift Gear boosts Klinklang's Attack by one stage and its Speed by 2 stages, making it a very fearsome sweeper. Gear Grind is Klinklang's main STAB move, which can threaten Substitute users. Return is able to do a good amount of damage to Pokemon that resist Gear Grind, such as Incineroar and Heliolisk, when boosted. Magnet Rise lets Klinklang set up on Ground-types such as Piloswine and, if it isn't carrying Roar or Curse in its arsenal, Steelix. Substitute allows Klinklang to avoid being crippled by status such as burn and paralysis. Wild Charge in conjunction with Electrium Z covers most bulky Water-types that would otherwise wall Klinklang rather comfortably, such as Slowking, Vaporeon, and Pyukumuku. Toxic can be used if running Steelium Z; it targets similar targets as Gigavolt Havoc which are frequently seen on balance and stall teams, meaning Klinklang can break past these archetypes a lot easier. 252 Attack EVs and an Adamant nature let Klinklang hit as hard as possible, and 188 Speed EVs allow Klinklang to outspeed maximum Speed Decidueye. The remaining 68 EVs are dumped into HP for some extra bulk, which makes it a bit easier to set up Shift Gear. Clear Body makes Klinklang avoid stat drops from Intimidate, Parting Shot, and Sticky Web. It is also the only ability with any use because Plus and Minus are useless, since it's rather rare to see any other Pokemon use Plus or Minus. Steelium Z gives Klinklang a very powerful Corkscrew Crash, while Electrium Z in conjunction with Wild Charge targets defensive Water-types that can try to wall Klinklang. Leftovers gives Klinklang a way to recover health and lets it check Comfey and Whimsicott a lot better. Try to preserve Klinklang for mid- to late-game to pull off a sweep when its checks like Incineroar, defensive Slowking, and Steelix are weakened. Early- to mid-game, it is generally a lot wiser to just attack the opponent's check so Klinklang can sweep later. Once Klinklang's checks are significantly weakened, Klinklang can start to set up with Shift Gear. Use a Z-Move if Klinklang has to avoid recoil damage from Pokemon that typically carry Rocky Helmet like Xatu or have an ability that damages the attacking Pokemon like Garbodor's and Skuntank's Aftermath and Druddigon's Rough Skin in order to stay healthy so it can potentially get another setup opportunity and stay out of range from being revenge killed by a priority move. By virtue of Klinklang's typing and natural bulk, it can pivot in on Pokemon like Whimsicott and Sneasel. Use Magnet Rise against Ground-types that will try to use their STAB moves against Klinklang. Substitute should be set up whenever predicting a status move such as Thunder Wave or Will-O-Wisp from Pokemon like Jellicent, Rotom, Druddigon, and Miltank. Garbodor can set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes, which force common answers to Klinklang to take a lot of damage, and chip away at Hitmonlee if running Rocky Helmet. Xatu beats Steelix, Ferroseed, and Garbodor and brings in Klinklang with U-turn. In return, Klinklang can set up on Pokemon that can normally answer Xatu such as Sneasel and, if running Magnet Rise, Piloswine. Samurott can easily set up on a lot of common Klinklang answers like Delphox and Incineroar and can also heavily pressure Water-types like Vaporeon to stay healthy, and the combination of Klinklang and Samurott can potentially overwhelm the foe. Jellicent is incredibly bulky and able to take on most Fire-, Fighting-, and Ground-types, which are Pokemon that Klinklang generally struggles against. Scyther can easily bring in Klinklang with U-turn while also being a good answer to common Fighting-types. It can also lure in Steelix and Incineroar and remove their items with Knock Off. In return, Klinklang can beat Ice- and Flying-types for Scyther. Sneasel can Pursuit trap Calm Mind Delphox and remove the items from Incineroar and Steelix to give Klinklang an easier time breaking past them. Whimsicott can pressure Steel-resistant Pokemon like Slowking, Rotom, and Steelix, and, by virtue of its typing, it can also switch in on Fighting-type attacks for Klinklang.
Klinklang (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to its great stats, amazing typing, and access to Shift Gear, Klinklang is one of the most terrifying sweepers in ZU. After a boost, its STAB Gear Grind breaks through most defensive Pokemon, including prominent walls like Articuno and Alcremie. Even neutral targets like Altaria, Tangela, and Uxie are used as setup fodder due to Klinklang's Steel typing. Klinklang can use Substitute to block weaker hits and status, but Magnet Rise is an option to avoid Earthquake from Rhydon and Alolan Dugtrio. Toxic cripples the few counters that Klinklang has, including Rapidash, Alolan Persian, Sableye, and Stunfisk. Alternatively, Wild Charge hits Water-types like Qwilfish, Poliwrath, and Cramorant. With 156 Speed EVs, Klinklang outspeeds Choice Scarf Manectric after a Shift Gear boost. The additional EVs are invested in bulk, making it even more difficult for revenge killers like Thwackey and Kangaskhan to pick it off at low health. Klinklang fits on almost all types of teams, ranging from semi-stall to hyper offense, but is at its best when its counters get crippled over the long run. As a result, Toxic users like Miltank, Altaria, and Clefairy greatly assist Klinklang in wearing down counters like Rapidash and Stunfisk. In return, Klinklang threatens clerics like Alcremie and Articuno. Miltank and Clefairy also provide their own cleric support, healing Klinklang of any status it gets from Flame Body or Static. Klinklang also appreciates Knock Off support, removing crucial items from Rhydon and Tangela, as well as eliminating the chip damage from Rocky Helmet Miltank and Poliwrath. Thwackey, Alolan Persian, and Uxie are all good partners thanks to their ability to use Knock Off against Klinklang's checks. Gurdurr is a particularly good Knock Off partner, as Klinklang counters Gurdurr's biggest checks like Alcremie and Altaria. Klinklang's bulk and typing allow it to come in and fire off instantly powerful attacks, making it a versatile wallbreaker and pivot. As a Steel-type with solid bulk, Klinklang can directly switch into passive attacks from the likes of Articuno and Hurricane Altaria; it also comes in on Choice-locked wallbreakers like Thwackey, Froslass, and Gourgeist-S. Choice Band gives it the strength to immediately threaten walls like Alolan Persian, Rhydon, and Spiritomb. Wild Charge punishes bulky Water-types like Poliwrath, Qwilfish, and Pyukumuku, and Volt Switch provides useful pivoting for other switch-ins including Rapidash and Gurdurr. Facade is useful for doing meaningful damage to Stunfisk, especially if it gets afflicted with paralysis or burn. Toxic is also great on Choice Band sets to cripple switch-ins like the aforementioned Rapidash and Stunfisk. Choice Band sets typically fit on more offensively-inclined teams looking for a physical wallbreaker that can switch into weak attacks. Its plethora of resistances help keep defensive partners like Poliwrath, Alcremie, and Tangela healthy. Those teammates can handle Fire-, Fighting-, and Ground-type attacks for Klinklang in return. Its offensive capabilities are further accentuated by chip damage, so entry hazards from Pokemon like Rhydon and Piloswine are helpful. They make especially useful partners, as they threaten Klinklang's biggest checks like Rapidash and Stunfisk. Spikes support from Qwilfish or Coalossal also helps rack up damage. VoltTurn wallbreakers including Rotom, Thwackey, and the Silvally formes can further add momentum with their pivoting. This constant damage is also helpful for fast cleaners like Galarian Rapidash, Froslass, and Choice Scarf Sawk, who appreciate the wallbreaking ability of Choice Band Klinklang. Although it does have good Speed, Klinklang gets outsped and OHKOed by Pokemon like Alolan Dugtrio and Ninetales, so revenge killers like Froslass and Manectric are essential for supporting Klinklang offensively. Klinklang can run a Choice Specs set to surprise its checks, as a fully-invested Volt Switch can heavily damage switch-ins like Rapidash and Poliwrath. It also has Power Gem for surprising Rapidash, and Steel Beam as a powerful nuke. Unfortunately, it doesn't have a particularly high Special Attack, leaving it outclassed by other bulky Choice Specs wallbreakers, like Poliwrath and Exeggutor.
Gothitelle (BW competitive strategy): Behold, the biggest tiering nightmare in Smogon history. Gothitelle used to be a valuable Pokemon in OU until Shadow Tag got banned. However, because this happened after the tiers were locked, Gothitelle got stuck into a existential limbo in the OU metagame, as it doesn't have its niche as a trapper anymore. Because of its typing, movepool, and awful stats, Gothitelle is easily outclassed by other Psychic-types like Latios, Alakazam, and Reuniclus. Gothitelle is just trying to hit hard as possible with its mediocre base 95 Special Attack with this set. Psychic is your best STAB option, while Hidden Power Fighting is your only option to hit Steel-types as well as Tyranitar. Energy Ball damages bulky Ground-types like Hippowdon, Gastrodon, and Seismitoad while also being able to do a bit of damage to incoming Tyranitar that will OHKO Gothitelle with Pursuit. Dark Pulse damages other Psychic-types, and Thunderbolt can hit Skarmory. If using Energy Ball or Dark Pulse, Hidden Power Fire is the best option to hit Ferrothorn and Skarmory. Trick is your only option to not be a total momentum sucker. Seriously, never use this Pokemon. If you want a Psychic-type, a Pokemon like Latios, Alakazam, Reuniclus, Jirachi, Latias, Mew, or Victini can do way more damage or offer much more team support.
Gothitelle (SM competitive strategy): Gothitelle carves its niche in the Anything Goes metagame by being able to PP stall many prominent defensive Pokemon thanks to its access to Shadow Tag and helpful support moves such as Charm, Taunt, and Confide. Gothitelle also offers great support for some of the tier's most threatening sweepers, such as Mega Rayquaza and Zygarde-C. Aside from that, Gothitelle also traps different entry hazard removers across the tier, notably most Defog Arceus variants, as well as Choice-locked Pokemon like Choice Scarf Yveltal locked into Oblivion Wing and Choice Scarf Xerneas situationally. Despite all of this, Gothitelle offers nothing defensively to a team other than trapping a few Pokemon, often making it awkward to fit onto a build. Furthermore, Gothitelle has a much more useful matchup versus balanced or defensive teams, often serving as dead weight against offensive builds. Confide enables Gothitelle to trap weaker special attackers such as support Arceus variants barring Arceus-Dark as well as Choice Scarf Yveltal. Charm lets Gothitelle trap passive physical attackers such as Celesteela, Ferrothorn, defensive Ho-Oh, and specially defensive variants of Necrozma-DM. Taunt stops Gothitelle from being inflicted with Leech Seed by the likes of Celesteela and Ferrothorn and phazed by Arceus formes and Ho-Oh and forces the trapped foe to use attacking moves to speed up the trapping process. Rest helps Gothitelle PP stall threats better due to giving it two whole turns of no PP usage, and it brings Gothitelle back to full HP and heals it from status. Shadow Tag is what enables Gothitelle to trap and PP stall several notable threats in Anything Goes. Leftovers helps Gothitelle's longevity while also making it less vulnerable to critical hits and Leech Seed. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment with a Calm nature gives Gothitelle more bulk to trap support Arceus and potentially allows it trap Choice Scarf Xerneas. Once you stall a foe out of its PP, send in a Pokemon on your team that can take advantage of the situation, which is especially useful for removing or setting up entry hazards or setting up with a sweeper. Patience is important when using Gothitelle. Figure out your opponent's sets before trying to PP stall so you can form a game plan. Also, be aware of the possibility of getting critical hits and getting frozen during a PP stall, so try to use Rest with Gothitelle to stay out of range of a critical hit from the Pokemon you are trapping. Try to force Gothitelle's trapping targets in with its teammates and proceed to catch the target with Gothitelle by conditioning your opponent into switching the target in. Be wary of the possibility of Z-Crystals on support Arceus, as these sets attempt to avoid getting trapped by Gothitelle. If facing a team with a Pursuit trapper, namely Marshadow, Tyranitar, or Alolan Muk, aim to play conservatively with your Gothitelle to avoid getting trapped. After trapping and removing a foe, Gothitelle can easily be taken advantage of, so try to switch into something that can handle the opposing team better on the last Struggle of the trapped Pokemon. To avoid Roar or Whirlwind being an issue on passive threats such as support Arceus formes, non-Shed Shell Skarmory, and Lugia, it's important to Rest immediately following a Taunt when low on health, as this prevents the Pokemon from phazing while Gothitelle is asleep. Setup sweepers that like to see support Arceus gone such as Bulk Up Marshadow, Swords Dance Ultra Necrozma, Dragon Dance Zygarde-C, and Dragon Dance Mega Rayquaza all benefit from having Gothitelle alongside them to free them up offensively. Gothitelle enjoys a defensive core around it to make up for its vulnerability to powerful physical attackers. Zygarde-C, Skarmory, and Celesteela do that well. Reliable entry hazard setters can take advantage of Gothitelle's ability to trap a lot of viable Defoggers, so Stealth Rock Arceus variants and Ferrothorn fit that role. Pivoting in the form of Yveltal or Magearna can also be helpful for Gothitelle's trapping. A Calm Mind trapping set, dropping one of Charm or Taunt and Confide in favor of Psyshock and Calm Mind, can be run to trap Calm Mind Arceus variants, but due to missing out on one of its support moves, it fails to trap physical attackers. Substitute is also an option over Confide to enable Gothitelle to additionally trap Dragon Tail Lugia and Zygarde-C, but this set is much more susceptible to critical hits.
Gothitelle (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to Shadow Tag, Gothitelle is capable of reliably trapping and eliminating many walls such as Necrozma-DM, Zygarde, Blissey, and Eternatus. Charm weakens physical attackers, and Cosmic Power bolsters it against special attackers while also giving insurance against physical attackers. Taunt helps Gothitelle PP stall, forcing the foe to eventually use Struggle. Rest is Gothitelle’s best form of longevity and removes status conditions; it also helps it to PP stall by not using up PP on Rest turns. The given EV spread allows Gothitelle to outspeed defensive Necrozma-DM while maximizing physical bulk. Alternatively, a spread of 244 HP / 60 Def / 204 Spe with a Bold nature sees use to more effectively trap defensive Ho-Oh, Zygarde-C, and Groudon. Special Defense investment is also an option to trap bulky Eternatus more easily at the cost of reducing its ability to trap Necrozma-DM and Ho-Oh. Substitute can be used over either Charm or Cosmic Power to block Dragon Tail from Pokemon like Eternatus and Zygarde-C and Leech Seed from Ferrothorn, but this sacrifices either its dependability against Necrozma-DM and Ho-Oh or the ability to trap defensive Eternatus that carries Dynamax Cannon. Gothitelle fits best on balance and occasionally stall teams, and teammates that appreciate it removing their defensive answers do great with it. Zacian-C in particular is an excellent partner, since most teams rely on Necrozma-DM or Quagsire to beat it, which Gothitelle can trap. Kyogre struggles with Eternatus and appreciates Gothitelle's ability to trap and remove it, along with Blissey. Chansey, and Ferrothorn. Stall teams appreciate it removing Ferrothorn, since Ferrothorn can beat most common Defoggers one-on-one, as well as certain Pressure and Regenerator users like Eternatus and Ho-Oh that can often PP stall them. Gothitelle is offensively threatened by a lot and provides little to no defensive utility against hyper offense teams, so it requires a revenge killer and a proper defensive backbone. Zacian-C is a massive threat to Gothitelle; counters to it such as Necrozma-DM and Quagsire are especially appreciated. Calyrex-S is another massive threat to Gothitelle, so defensive answers to it such as Yveltal and Tyranitar are needed. Good checks to other threats such as Marshadow, Yveltal, and Xerneas are Zacian-C, specially defensive Eternatus, Necrozma-DM, Choice Scarf Calyrex-S, Ditto, and Zacian, which are also effective at stopping many offensive threats like Groudon, Reshiram, and Zekrom from sweeping. Confide can be used over Cosmic Power to bring in sweepers such as Xerneas, Groudon, and Zekrom more easily alongside Charm. Gothitelle can run Choice Scarf with Trick to cripple defensive Pokemon, potentially locking them into a status move or weak attack, which lets it set up Cosmic Power. Trick can also hamper Pokemon that normally are risky to trap such as Calm Mind Kyogre and defensive Yveltal, but it makes trapping Necrozma-DM and Eternatus more risky.
Komala (SM competitive strategy): Thanks to its excellent ability and amazing Attack stat, Komala is a great Pokemon in the ZU metagame, especially since its access to a powerful STAB move in Return and good coverage moves like Earthquake and Knock Off makes it quite a nuisance to switch into. Utility moves like U-turn, Rapid Spin, Toxic, and Wish also allow it to offer a variety of support to its team, which is bolstered by good special bulk combined with only a single weakness, making it challenging to take down. In addition, setup moves like Bulk Up and Swords Dance allow it to break through Pokemon that otherwise wall it and add to its already incredible versatility and unpredictability. Komala especially excels at beating defensive builds thanks to its immunity to status because of Comatose. Unfortunately, Komala suffers from underwhelming Speed and low physical bulk, leaving it to easily succumb to offensive pressure and causing it to struggle against more offensive builds. The very common Colbur Berry Gourgeist-XL is also hard for Komala to break through, although it can be worn down with repeated uses of U-turn. Lastly, Komala faces some competition from other Normal-types like Bouffalant, Kecleon, and Lickilicky, though its status immunity and great movepool mean that it generally outshines them. Earthquake hits the Rock- and Steel-types that resist Return very hard, notably 2HKOing physically defensive Golem and Mawile and OHKOing Probopass. Knock Off is Komala's strongest move to hit Ghost-types like Dusclops, as well as Bronzor, which is 2HKOed even if it is physically defensive. Knock Off also offers crucial utility in removing Eviolite from Pokemon like Hakamo-o, allowing them to be more easily broken through later. U-turn allows Komala to utilize the switches it forces to generate momentum for its team while wearing down checks like Gourgeist-XL. Sucker Punch is an option over Knock Off to give Komala a form of priority, which helps in the matchup against offensive teams, but it leaves Komala completely walled by Pokemon like Bronzor and is thus usually inferior to Knock Off. A Jolly nature is generally preferred for this set, as it allows Komala to outspeed Pokemon like Pawniard while also preventing Altaria from efficiently Speed creeping it. However, an Adamant nature is an option, as it allows Komala to OHKO offensive Golem with Earthquake after Sturdy is broken. Focus on switching Komala in on passive Pokemon it heavily threatens, like Mareanie and Altaria, and begin breaking through the opponent's team. Notably, it is capable on coming in for free on those Pokemon, as well as others like Pyukumuku, thanks to Comatose. Otherwise, use U-turn and Volt Switch from its teammates to switch Komala in. Its bulk isn't great without investment, especially physically, so switching it in on strong attackers is ill-advised. Early-game, it is often useful to utilize Komala's U-turn to generate momentum for its team and wear down its switch-ins. Otherwise, it will be tough to break through the likes of physically defensive Golem without flawless predictions. Knock Off can be used in a similar manner, removing useful items like Leftovers and Eviolite from its checks. Komala's matchup against offensive teams is far from great, so fast attackers that can threaten the archetype like Floatzel, Rapidash, and Kadabra are very important. Pokemon like Oricorio-F, Silvally formes, and Electivire that can bring in Komala with moves like U-turn and Volt Switch synergize very well with it, especially if they can lure in Pokemon it can threaten. Since Komala forces a lot of switches, hazard setters like Golem, Bronzor, Crustle, and Probopass are important. Probopass also notably traps opposing Steel-types like Bronzor, allowing Komala to spam Return more easily. Komala tends to be forced out by powerful, faster attackers, so having switch-ins for them is crucial; as such, using a good defensive core like Golem + Gourgeist-XL or Altaria + Bronzor can greatly aid Komala. Thanks to Comatose, Komala is the only viable Rapid Spin user in the tier that is immune to Toxic Spikes, which allows it to prevent its team from becoming poisoned. If Komala's team already has hazard removal, then Bulk Up is an alternative over Rapid Spin, turning Komala into a bulky setup sweeper that can take over games late-game thanks to it being immune to Toxic, which would be common counterplay otherwise. Knock Off is the only offensive move on the set. It offers great utility in removing items and nothing is immune to it, ensuring Komala is rarely completely dead weight against any Pokemon. Knock Off also allows Komala to consistently beat Bronzor, which a very common Stealth Rock setter, and thus allows it to spin with ease. Toxic is an option over Knock Off if Rapid Spin is chosen in the first slot to punish Pokemon like Colbur Berry Gourgeist-XL, which can spinblock Komala with ease otherwise, and Silvally-Fighting, both of which take little damage from Knock Off and either do not mind having or cannot have their item removed. However, it leaves Komala completely passive once the opposing Pokemon has been badly poisoned and makes it a free switch-in for Pokemon immune to Toxic, like Mareanie, Probopass, Muk, and opposing Komala. Protect allows Komala to be sure to receive its own Wish and helps it scout Choice item users, like Electivire and opposing Komala. This EV spread makes the most use of Komala's solid natural special bulk to check a variety of special attackers in the tier like Choice Scarf Chatot and Silvally-Dragon. In addition, if Komala is running Bulk Up, it can already boost its Defense, meaning further investment is unnecessary. This Komala set should focus on using its solid special bulk to answer powerful special attackers like Choice Scarf Chatot and Silvally-Dragon. It should be pivoting in and out often, using Wish to keep itself healthy and Knock Off to take on Bronzor and prevent itself from being a free switch-in for attackers that threaten it. If you're running Rapid Spin, switch Komala into entry hazard setters that rely on special attacks or status, like Mareanie and defensive Camerupt, to remove their hazards immediately; thanks to Komala's impressive special bulk and its ability Comatose, it can do so quite freely. If using Bulk Up, Komala should generally be kept healthy until late-game. Although it can still be used to pivot into special attackers, a healthy Komala can set up on many special attackers and passive Pokemon, like Altaria and Zebstrika, and sweep from there. Be careful around mixed attackers or ones that can run either physical or special sets, such as Floatzel and Electivire; while this Komala set can check their special sets, it struggles against their physical ones, so the set should be scouted before switching in. Due to Komala's lackluster physical bulk, it pairs well with Pokemon that can efficiently cover many attackers that target Defense, like Gourgeist-XL, physically defensive Altaria, Granbull, and physically defensive Golem. The former three also cover Komala's sole weakness in Fighting, while the latter provides Stealth Rock, forming a solid hazard control core. Other checks to Fighting-types like Mareanie and Muk also pair well to take care of Komala's worst type matchup. They also notably cover Silvally-Fighting, which is one of the best switch-ins to Knock Off. Spikes setters like Crustle and Roselia appreciate Komala removing entry hazards from their side of the field without removing the ones they set like a Defogger would. Knock Off covers the Pokemon immune to Return, notably allows Komala to beat one of the premier Stealth Rock setters in Bronzor, and offers valuable utility in removing items. Earthquake is another option as a coverage move, notably allowing Komala to beat Pokemon like Probopass, thus preventing them from setting Stealth Rock easily, but without a boosting item it's not strong enough to 2HKO the likes of physically defensive Golem and Mawile, and the Pokemon it does already do not appreciate losing their item to Knock Off. U-turn allows Komala to pivot, which synergizes well with an Assault Vest to easily switch in and out and generate a lot of momentum with its increased bulk. Sucker Punch can be used over the coverage move or Rapid Spin if the priority is needed, but it is weak without a boosting item and leaves Komala either walled by many Pokemon, namely those targeted by Knock Off or Earthquake, or unable to provide the excellent hazard control it is known for. An Assault Vest combined with the 160 HP EVs boosts Komala's already good Special Defense, allowing it to easily take special attacks. For example, it does not get OHKOed by Floatzel's All-Out Pummeling from Focus Blast after Stealth Rock and avoids the 2HKO from Choice Scarf Chatot's Boomburst. 96 Speed EVs allow Komala to outspeed offensive Golem, enabling to U-turn out before it can retaliate, thus breaking its Sturdy and generating momentum if the opponent decides to double switch. This set should focus on generating and keeping up momentum and offensive pressure. However, do not be afraid to switch in on special attackers that it can take hits from, such as Chatot and Silvally-Dragon, before removing entry hazards or pivoting out with U-turn. Due to the low Speed investment on this set, Komala's U-turn will usually happen after the foe moves, allowing Komala to bring in strong wallbreakers like Mr. Mime and Pinsir without forcing them to take damage. While Return, Knock Off, and Earthquake won't be the moves you use the most, they are still very strong, and your opponent will have to keep them in mind; look for opportunities to wear down your opponent's team. Remember that Komala is completely immune to every status; do not be afraid to switch into Toxic users that are unable to dent Komala otherwise, such as Bronzor and Mareanie. Teammates like Gourgeist-XL, Golem, and physically defensive Altaria can cover Komala's lower Defense stat. Gourgeist-XL and Altaria also cover Fighting-types like Silvally-Fighting, while Golem forms a solid hazard control core with it. Since Komala is a slow pivot, frail wallbreakers that appreciate being brought in without taking damage like Chatot, Floatzel, and Pinsir enjoy its support, especially since each of them can beat or set up on Gourgeist-XL and the Rock-types that Komala lures in. Spikes setters like Crustle and Roselia appreciate Komala's Rapid Spin removing entry hazards without undoing their work. Depending on what coverage move is chosen, Pokemon that can deal with the Pokemon Komala loses to are appreciated; Knock Off variants enjoy support from Pokemon like Silvally-Fighting that can threaten Probopass, while Earthquake variants appreciate the likes of Silvally-Dark and Probopass to beat Bronzor. Komala can run a set consisting of Swords Dance, Return, Wood Hammer, and Knock Off with Grassium Z to heavily threaten common stall teams, as they lack a good answer for it due to Bloom Doom breaking through stall's most common answer to set up sweepers in Pyukumuku. However, due to a lack of setup opportunities, this set has a very lackluster matchup against offense, even moreso than its other sets, making it very matchup reliant. To relieve that issue, Sucker Punch can be used over Knock Off, but that leaves Komala unable to remove items from Pokemon like Gourgeist-XL and stallbreak. Due to Comatose's strange mechanics, Sleep Talk is successful even though Komala is immune to sleep. As such, a set consisting of only Sleep Talk and Last Resort with a Choice Band may seem alluring to fire off 140-Base Power STAB moves immediately, but the complete lack of coverage on this set leaves it entirely walled by Pokemon like Gourgeist-XL, physically defensive Golem, and Probopass, which makes it always inferior to the standard Choice Band set. In addition, Choice Band Reckless Head Charge Bouffalant hits about as hard as Last Resort while being able to fit on moves like Earthquake, making it a superior choice as well. Superpower is an option over Earthquake on the Choice Band set in order to still threaten Golem and Probopass while not letting Bronzor come in for free, but the stat drops make it usually a worse option. Lastly, a physically defensive variant with Wish / Protect / Rapid Spin / Toxic allows Komala to beat non-Choice Band Golem and thus remove its Stealth Rock. However, since Komala's natural physical bulk is lacking, it is unable to check many physical attackers, especially Fighting-types, making this set inferior to the specially defensive one.
Vikavolt (SM competitive strategy): A Bug / Electric typing combined with the ability Levitate means that Vikavolt can come in against many NU staples such as Steelix and Passimian easily, as well as taking little from NU's Grass-type wallbreakers such as Sceptile. Furthermore, an extremely high base 145 Special Attack and Electric-, Bug-, and Grass-type coverage means that any team lacking a dedicated special wall will struggle to safely switch into Vikavolt. Despite only having base 43 Speed, Vikavolt is still fast enough to outspeed many of NU's walls, including some base 50s such as Hariyama as well as Vaporeon with Speed investment if needed. This low Speed also gives Vikavolt a slow Volt Switch, which can help to get teammates in without them taking damage. However, while its Bug / Electric typing is very unique defensively, it leaves Vikavolt with a weakness to Stealth Rock, so it is easily worn down from repeatedly using Volt Switch as well as easily hit for heavy damage from Rock- and Fire-type attacks. Bug Buzz is Vikavolt's most powerful move, dealing good damage on neutral targets and having usable neutral coverage. This can also be boosted by Buginium Z to provide Vikavolt with an incredibly powerful Savage Spin-Out, even able to OHKO neutral targets such as Delphox. Volt Switch has reasonable power and lets Vikavolt bring its teammates in safely when used, as well as being Vikavolt's main Electric-type STAB move. Energy Ball hits most Pokemon for heavy damage, OHKOing Rhydon after Stealth Rock and being Vikavolt's most powerful move against Steelix. Roost is used to heal Vikavolt up, helping to mitigate damage taken from Stealth Rock and chip damage from enemy attacks. Maximum Special Attack EVs and a Modest nature maximize Vikavolt's wallbreaking power. The given Speed EVs let Vikavolt outrun maximum Speed Mega Abomasnow and anything slower than that. The remaining EVs are placed into HP in order to maximize Vikavolt's bulk, letting it take attacks such as Passimian's U-turn and Sceptile's Giga Drain with greater ease. Buginium Z is used to power up Vikavolt's Bug Buzz, giving it an incredibly powerful Z-Move able to hit almost all of NU for heavy damage, as well as to minimize damage taken from Knock Off. If not using a Z-Move, Leftovers can be used to reduce chip damage from Stealth Rock and give Vikavolt significantly increased longevity. Vikavolt should use its resistances and typing to get in as often as possible, as its power means that if it is able to safely get in, for example, against Steelix or Seismitoad, it is often able to deal heavy damage to the enemy team. Aim to wallbreak with Vikavolt early-game to open up holes for a teammate to clean up late-game. Savage Spin-Out can be used to reduce the burden of prediction, as its sheer power means that most possible switch-ins will take significant damage from it. Alternatively, it should be used to break an important target, as its increased damage can help secure KOs against Pokemon such as Delphox and Cryogonal. Volt Switch can be used against faster foes to safely get in a Pokemon without having said Pokemon take any damage. Do not let Vikavolt get worn down too much, as being at high HP means that it has the opportunity to switch into and use Roost against targets such as Passimian and Steelix. Teammates with Volt Switch, Parting Shot, or U-turn such as Passimian and Silvally-Steel can help to force the opponent onto a bad foot, forever being in against the wrong Pokemon. Passimian is a notable partner, as Vikavolt can easily force out Slowking that try to come in against Passimian's U-turn. Entry hazard control can be provided by teammates such as Xatu, Silvally-Steel, and Dhelmise, as removing Stealth Rock means that Vikavolt can pivot significantly more often. Fire-resistant Pokemon such as Incineroar, Rhydon, and Blastoise make good teammates, taking on the Fire-types that threaten to KO Vikavolt. Pokemon that appreciate Steel-types such as Steelix and Silvally-Steel being weakened, such as Comfey and Klinklang, can make good partners, benefiting heavily from Vikavolt's wallbreaking. Bug Buzz is a very strong STAB move, dealing good damage on neutral targets and having usable neutral coverage. Its coverage hits many Electric-resistant Pokemon for heavy damage, 2HKOing specially defensive Druddigon while OHKOing Pokemon such as Alolan Exeggutor and Heliolisk. Thunderbolt offers good coverage when combined with Bug Buzz, 2HKOing Silvally-Steel and Audino while providing better neutral coverage than Bug Buzz once enemy Ground-types are eliminated. Volt Switch has reasonable power and lets Vikavolt bring its teammates in. It can also force the opponent into a losing situation, punishing them for switching out or staying in. Energy Ball hits most Electric-immune foes for heavy damage, 2HKOing Steelix and OHKOing other Ground-types such as Rhydon and Seismitoad. Maximum Special Attack EVs and a Modest nature with Choice Specs maximize Vikavolt's wallbreaking power. 152 Speed EVs let Vikavolt outspeed maximum Speed Mega Abomasnow and anything slower than that. The remaining EVs are placed into HP in order to maximize Vikavolt's bulk. Bug Buzz is a very safe move to use early-game, as it has good neutral coverage with no types immune to it and hits almost anything that doesn't resist it for heavy damage. Energy Ball should be used if you predict your opponent to bring in a Ground-type to stop Volt Switch. If the opponent does not have a Ground-type, Volt Switch can be used to pivot with complete freedom, easily weaken the opposing team, and minimize chances for recovery. Vikavolt should be brought in against weak attacks such as Steelix's Heavy Slam or resisted hits such as Sceptile's Giga Drain. However, be wary of letting it get worn down too much, as its low Speed means it often has to take a hit before hitting the enemy back. Be careful when using Volt Switch or Thunderbolt, as this set has to predict when to use them in order to not lose momentum against enemy Ground-types. U-turn and Volt Switch users such as Silvally-Steel and pivot Incineroar can be used to help get Vikavolt in safely, minimizing the damage it needs to take and letting it wallbreak freely. Stealth Rock prevention and removal from Pokemon such as Xatu, Silvally-Steel, and Rotom helps Vikavolt preserve its HP, letting it survive longer in a game. Stealth Rock support from teammates such as Rhydon and Piloswine can help wear down Pokemon such as Cryogonal, letting Vikavolt wallbreak more easily. Spikes support from Garbodor can also help to wear down Steelix and Silvally-Steel while Vikavolt switches into many of the Ground-types that trouble Garbodor. Switch-ins to Fire-types that threaten Vikavolt such as Vaporeon, Delphox, and Rhydon can make excellent partners. Cleaners such as Comfey and Passimian appreciate Vikavolt's wallbreaking, with Comfey appreciating enemy Steel-types being worn down. Agility can be used to let Vikavolt function as a potent cleaner against more offensive teams, but this means it is forced to give up either valuable recovery in Roost or coverage in Energy Ball, making it significantly worse off against other team archetypes. A physically defensive EV spread of 252 HP / 180 Def / 76 Spe with a Bold nature can be used to let Vikavolt function as a useful defensive wall, taking on enemy Passimian easily, but its weakness to Stealth Rock and significant loss of power hampers its function in this role. A set of Substitute / Roost / Thunderbolt / Bug Buzz with Metronome and an EV spread of 68 HP / 252 SpA / 188 Spe with a Modest nature can be used to give Vikavolt an incredibly strong matchup against stall with its power increasing after every consecutive hit, but this sacrifices any coverage to meaningfully damage enemy Rock-types such as Rhydon, as well as utility in Volt Switch, with the increased speed letting Vikavolt use Substitute to block Vaporeon's Toxic.
Vikavolt (SS competitive strategy): Vikavolt is a wallbreaking powerhouse, sporting a massive base 145 Special Attack stat, powerful STAB attacks, Volt Switch, and decent coverage to boot. It can also switch into threats like Eldegoss and Sandaconda thanks to its passable bulk, typing, and access to recovery. However, Vikavolt is very slow for a wallbreaker, and its Bug typing can be a hindrance, as it leaves Vikavolt unable to switch into Pokemon like Regirock that it can otherwise easily pressure. It is often outclassed by Ribombee and Galvantula as a Sticky Web setter, as their Speed tier is much more suited for the aggressive playstyle, with Galvantula also sporting the same typing and Volt Switch. Similarly, Agility sets suffer from competition from Quiver Dance Ribombee. This set takes advantage of Vikavolt's wallbreaking potential, forcing out most Pokemon slower than it such as Sandaconda and Jellicent. Although Thunderbolt is a great reliable STAB move for Vikavolt, Sticky Web can be used on more offensive teams as speed control, giving Vikavolt a few more opportunities to outspeed and pressure opposing Pokemon such as Aggron and Adamant Absol but mostly serving to support its teammates. Bug Buzz is primarily used on Vikavolt as a reliable way to hit Pokemon that Electric-type moves cannot hit as well, such as Ferroseed and Trevenant. However, Energy Ball is a useful alterative to hit Ground-types harder, such as Sandslash and Galarian Stunfisk, that may attempt to block Volt Switch. Fighting-types like Gallade and Poliwrath can offensively pressure common switch-ins like Gigalith and Regirock, while also benefitting from Sticky Web affecting Pokemon like Silvally formes and Gourgeist-Small. Other wallbreakers that appreciate the Sticky Web support like Magmortar and Trevenant make for solid partners. The former appreciates Vikavolt taking on Water-types such as Lanturn, while the latter can pressure defensive behemoths like Gigalith for Vikavolt. This set uses Vikavolt's wallbreaking potential and transforms it into a late-game sweeper, using Agility to make it faster than the entirety of the unboosted metagame. Vikavolt's natural bulk and typing let it use Agility against Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Togedemaru as well as more defensive Pokemon that struggle to damage it such as Eldegoss and non-Toxic Jellicent. Mud Shot allows Vikavolt to destroy Togedemaru and Magneton before they can stall it out. Energy Ball can be used to defeat Pokemon that resist its primary attacks, such as Galarian Stunfisk, but they are more niche foes. Roost can give Vikavolt more longevity, allowing it to recover on more defensive threats to make it harder to revenge kill. Agility Vikavolt pairs well with entry hazards setters such as Spikes Froslass and Qwilfish, as these help Vikavolt force its way past difficult-to-break Pokemon such as Gigalith and specially defensive Togedemaru. It also defensively pairs well with Ground-types such as Sandslash and Sandaconda that resist Rock-type attacks from Pokemon such as Lycanroc and Regirock, since these Pokemon often stop Vikavolt from sweeping.
Vikavolt (SV competitive strategy): Vikavolt distinguishes itself as a powerful Sticky Web setter, pressuring Hattrem and entry hazard removers like Sandslash and Lurantis with its STAB and coverage moves. Levitate and a Bug / Electric typing make Vikavolt a surprisingly good tank against common Grass-types like Rotom-C, Shaymin, and Virizion. Vikavolt's offensive typing, powerful special attacks, and coverage even let it deter opposing hazard setters like Mesprit, Sandslash, and Orthworm. What's more, Vikavolt's special wallbreaking potential enables it to capitalize on its own Sticky Web. However, Vikavolt's poor Speed is a major hindrance, leaving it easily outsped and picked off once it's weakened. Taunt leads like Froslass and Primeape can prevent Vikavolt from setting up Sticky Web and get their own hazards up. Fire-types like Charizard, Typhlosion, and Oricorio-F are major specially offensive threats that take advantage of Vikavolt's lower special bulk and lack of recovery. Special walls like Snorlax and Cryogonal can withstand Vikavolt's strong attacks, and the latter can even remove Sticky Web with Rapid Spin. Beyond Sticky Web, Vikavolt tends to compete with other Electric-types like Jolteon, Rotom-C, and Lanturn, which offer more Speed, utility, and defensive value, respectively. Vikavolt is a threatening Sticky Web lead thanks to its offensive typing and massive Special Attack. Volt Switch enables Vikavolt to bring a partner in safely once it's set Sticky Web, and Vikavolt's low Speed makes it more likely that it can bring its teammates in without forcing them to take a hit. Volt Switch also helps break the Focus Sash of a Taunt lead like Primeape or Froslass so one of Vikavolt's teammates can come in and dispose of them. Thunderbolt's advantage over Volt Switch is that it doesn't force Vikavolt to switch out against Pokemon it wants to threaten, such as Passimian, Articuno, and Clawitzer. Energy Ball covers Electric-immune Pokemon like Sandslash and Volt Absorb Lanturn, and it nails Regirock. Vikavolt can opt for Thunderbolt over Energy Ball so that it doesn't have to choose between a pivot move and a reliable Electric-type STAB move across matchups against foes like Orthworm, Muk, and Weezing. Additionally, Vikavolt's STAB moves already hit most of the metagame for neutral damage. Tera Ghost turns Vikavolt into a spinblocker, ensuring its Sticky Web stays up against spinners like Sandslash, Cryogonal, and Hitmontop. Alternatively, Tera Steel has defensive synergy with Levitate, makes Vikavolt a good check to Psychic- and Fairy-types like Mesprit and Whimsicott, and turns the tables on Regirock for a key turn. Focus Sash makes Vikavolt a dedicated lead, while Heavy-Duty Boots makes Vikavolt more flexible throughout the game as a Sticky Web setter and pivot. Vikavolt can feature on hyper offense teams thanks to Sticky Web, but it's a good fit for offense and bulky offense teams as well due to the speed control Sticky Web offers. Wallbreakers like Glastrier, Charizard, and Typhlosion thrive with Sticky Web up, and they also benefit from being brought in safely by Vikavolt's Volt Switch. Slower wallbreakers like Clawitzer, Glastrier, and Arboliva are especially appreciative of Sticky Web compensating for their poor Speed. Setup sweepers with middling Speed like Mesprit and Rotom-C also benefit from the ability to outspeed more threats. Knock Off users like Passimian, Mesprit, and Sandslash help ensure Heavy-Duty Boots is removed from all foes so that the entire opposing team is subjected to Sticky Web, and the item removal support they offer helps against checks to Vikavolt like Snorlax and Cryogonal. Ghost-types like Spiritomb and Froslass act as spinblockers to keep up Vikavolt's Sticky Web, while Defiant Pokemon, such as Passimian and Primeape, can deter and punish Defoggers. Spinners like Hitmontop, Cryogonal, and Sandslash help keep opposing entry hazards off the field without removing Vikavolt's Sticky Web. Vikavolt's poor matchups against Fire-types make teammates like Regirock and Snorlax vital. Vikavolt is an effective wallbreaker, pivot, and Sticky Web setter because of its unique typing and monstrous Special Attack. Energy Ball hits foes like Lanturn and Regirock especially hard; if Vikavolt is using a Modest nature, it consistently 2HKOes Regirock. Heavy-Duty Boots allows Vikavolt to function as a bulky slow pivot more reliably. A Bold nature with full Defense investment can be used to let Vikavolt better take attacks from physical attackers like Passimian, Hitmontop, and Virizion; alternatively, a Modest nature with full Special Attack investment can maximize its damage output at the cost of taking on opposing leads less effectively. Tera Steel is used to provide a resistance to Psychic, which helps it take on Mesprit after it Terastallizes, and flip its weakness to Rock into a resistance, taking Rock Blast and Stone Edge from foes like Regirock and Virizion more comfortably. Vikavolt, despite being a Sticky Web setter, is a good fit for bulky offense and offensive structures alike. With its good natural bulk and massive power even without EV investment, Vikavolt can reliably come in and pivot a few times each game, using its wallbreaking proficiency to lure in foes like Snorlax for teammates like Passimian and Hisuian Sneasel. Similarly, setup sweepers like Poliwrath and Mesprit can overcome their relative slowness with Sticky Web support, threatening to clean late-game after one boost. Stealth Rock setters like Regirock pair well with Vikavolt, with the former taking on foes like Sneasel reliably and the latter taking on Fire-types like Charizard and Typhlosion. Vikavolt is a notable VoltTurn partner for Clawitzer and Passimian, as they can lure in Arboliva and Mesprit for it, while it can provide entry points for them against walls like Muk and Snorlax. Defog deterrents, like Malamar and Passimian, make for excellent teammates, leveraging the Sticky Web set by Vikavolt to become devastating wallbreakers if positioned well. Knock Off users that can aid further in this endeavor, like Passimian and Sneasel also help soften up Vikavolt checks such as Snorlax. Tera Electric leaves Vikavolt free of weaknesses and powers up Vikavolt's STAB Electric-type attacks, but it doesn't offer as much defensive utility as the resistances and immunities of Tera types like Ghost and Steel. Tera Dragon helps Vikavolt catch Fire-types like Charizard off guard, and it even improves Vikavolt's matchups against Water-types like Lanturn while retaining Vikavolt's Grass and Electric resistances. Vikavolt can aim to be a sweeper with Agility and Throat Spray, but it requires multiple turns of setup to be threatening compared to setup sweepers like Oricorio-F, Jolteon, and Mesprit. Vikavolt's poor Speed, both before and after Agility, is also a major hindrance to it as a sweeper.
Galvantula (XY competitive strategy): Galvantula is outclassed offensively by Heliolisk, which sits in a better Speed tier, has access to Dry Skin to deal with the plethora of bulky Water-types in UnderUsed, and has better diversity in its movesets. Galvantula faces competition from within its Speed tier too, as it is filled with other offensive threats such as Cobalion and Infernape. On top of that, it is held back by a poor defensive typing against many threats, falling to almost anything faster than it unless it can set up Sticky Web beforehand. This typing also leaves Galvantula weak to Stealth Rock, and with its reliance on Life Orb to deal any large amount of damage, Galvantula can quickly find itself struggling to survive against residual damage if left without support. However, Galvantula provides a useful niche with its access to Sticky Web, which reduces the foe's Speed by one stage upon switching in. To further its offensive prowess, Galvantula receives a blessing in the form of Compound Eyes, which provides a massive accuracy boost to its powerful STAB move Thunder, helping it to compete with the other Electric-types in the tier. Additionally, with Bug Buzz and Energy Ball, Galvantula can decimate some of the more common Electric-type switch-ins such as Krookodile, Hydreigon, and Swampert. With Galvantula's dual STAB moves, most Taunt users are not safe from it, nor are the many common entry hazard removers such as Mega Blastoise, Empoleon, and Crobat. Sticky Web is the only reason to be running Galvantula, and with it Galvantula can take advantage of faster grounded Pokemon by slowing them down. In a tier full of bulky Water- and Flying-types, Galvantula can pull its weight by using Thunder as a reliable high-powered STAB move to 2HKO most of them. Bug Buzz, the secondary STAB move, combats some common Electric-type switch-ins, such as Hydreigon, Krookodile, and Mega Sceptile, while also threatening bulky Psychic-type Pokemon such as Cresselia. Energy Ball allows Galvantula to hit Ground-types, such as Swampert and Mamoswine, which would otherwise almost completely wall it. Giga Drain is an option to help Galvantula last slightly longer, but it is notably weaker than Energy Ball. Life Orb is almost mandatory to grant Galvantula the kind of power it requires, as otherwise it lacks any kind of meaningful damage output due to a lackluster Special Attack stat. Investing 252 Speed EVs and a Timid nature gets Galvantula up to 346 Speed, on par with Cobalion and Infernape, while 252 Special Attack EVs grant it the most power it can afford. Compound Eyes allows Galvantula to have a 91% accurate Thunder, though Swarm can be used on a Focus Sash set to boost the power of Bug Buzz. Focus Sash is a viable alternative to Life Orb, though Galvantula loses power and usually only functions well as a dedicated lead if using such. However, with a Focus Sash equipped, it can OHKO common anti-lead pokemon such as Aerodactyl, Mega Absol, and Espeon. Galvantula appreciates being able to get on the field as unharmed as possible, so bringing it in on a predicted status move or switch can be very beneficial. From there, depending on the team, set up Sticky Web or attack; if the opposing team is offensive, setting up Sticky Web should be a priority, while against defensive teams an attack may have more of an impact than the Speed drop. Galvantula can also wallbreak with Thunder, and once its checks and counters are removed it can clean up a weakened team. When playing against teams with little to no entry hazard control, a good option is to simply lead with Galvantula to set up Sticky Web on turn one, especially if it is holding a Focus Sash. Strong but slower setup sweepers and wallbreakers such as Lucario and Choice Specs Sylveon appreciate Sticky Web support, as they can blow by some checks and counters by virtue of being able to outspeed them. Mamoswine in particular is absolutely terrifying on any Sticky Web team, complementing Galvantula's typing nicely and providing immense firepower. Other options include Crawdaunt, Hoopa, Nidoking, Honchkrow, and Porygon-Z, as they are all slower Pokemon with massive amounts of power, thus benefitting from Sticky Web. A teammate to resist Flying-type attacks would be particularly useful, as Flying-types are the only Pokemon other than Levitate users that are unaffected by Sticky Web in the first place. Mega Aerodactyl is a strong offensive teammate that can provide Pursuit support and attack Flying-types that trouble Galvantula. Metagross can take advantage of Sticky Web while also resisting Flying-type attacks and is able to break through special walls such as Sylveon. Keeping pressure on Defoggers and spinners is vital, as they remove entry hazards and undo your work. Taunt Mega Houndoom, Mamoswine, and Swords Dance + Stone Edge Cobalion all do the job nicely. Sticky Web in general favors this kind of offense by keeping pressure on and forcing opponents out, though bulky offense works just as well, as the teammates normally found on that build can stomach a hit and punish with a powerful attack in return. Volt Switch can give Galvantula momentum, though it comes at the expense of power and forces you to predict what move is coming to avoid losing a teammate. Thunder Wave is an alternative speed control option that quarters a single Pokemon's Speed without affecting the rest of the team as Sticky Web would. However, Thunder Wave does carry the benefit of being less reliant on pressuring Defoggers and spinners. Choice Specs is another option, though with the increase in power comes a decrease in versatility, and it can give the opponent a free turn to switch in and use Defog or Rapid Spin. Hidden Power Ice is a final option that allows Galvantula to 2HKO Nidoqueen and Gligar, paving the way for a sweeper such as Lucario to finish the job. Sucker Punch, although almost useless in most situations, allows Galvantula to easily pick off Pokemon that were protected by a Focus Sash or Sturdy, and can help to clean up severely weakened teams.
Galvantula (SM competitive strategy): Galvantula is a competent Sticky Web user that can threaten some common entry hazard removers like Mega Blastoise, Mantine, and Mandibuzz. It also sports a high Speed tier and a strong STAB combination of Thunder and Bug Buzz, allowing it to be an offensive threat to teams that rely on Grass-types to tank Electric-type moves. However, its mediocre base 97 Special Attack means that it is reliant on Life Orb for good damage output. Furthermore, Galvantula is frail and has a mediocre defensive typing, which means it struggles to switch in safely; this frailty also makes it difficult for Galvantula to keep Sticky Web up reliably. It is also beaten by some entry hazard removers that can outlast or KO it, particularly Florges and Donphan. Sticky Web is used to slow down opposing grounded Pokemon when they switch in, giving Galvantula's team a huge advantage. Thunder is a powerful STAB attack that utilizes Compound Eyes to hit a good 91% accuracy. Bug Buzz is used to hit Grass-types and other Electric-types, which resist Thunder. Volt Switch lets Galvantula pivot on its counters such as Florges and Registeel into a teammate that can handle them, and can let it escape sticky situations so it can potentially set up its hazards again. Life Orb gives Galvantula a much-needed 1.3x boost to its attacks. Maximum Special Attack and Speed investment allows Galvantula to hit as hard and as fast as possible. A Timid nature lets Galvantula outspeed Flygon and other base 100 Speed Pokemon. Compound Eyes gives Galvantula an accuracy boost to Thunder, making it a more reliable 91% accuracy attack. In general, it is a good idea to lead with Galvantula unless the opponent has a Pokemon that can anti-lead against it, such as Nidoqueen or Florges. In this case, it is better to find an opportunity later in the game to set up Sticky Web. Galvantula should attempt to set up Sticky Web as soon as possible to give the rest of its team an advantage. However, because of its poor bulk, Galvantula needs to come in on predicted switches or very weak attacks. Volt Switch can be used to get chip damage or momentum against Pokemon that wall Galvantula such as Gigalith and Goodra. It is best to pair Galvantula with slow, hard hitters that can take advantage of Sticky Web like Nidoqueen and Honchkrow. Sticky Web allows these wallbreakers and sweepers to become more threatening, as one of their biggest flaws, their Speed, is no longer an issue. Sticky Web also helps almost every hard hitter, allowing Pokemon such as Mismagius, Salazzle, Choice Specs Gardevoir, and Choice Band Tyrantrum to run through teams. Even faster Pokemon such as Aerodactyl appreciate Sticky Web slowing down potential revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Tyrantrum. Because Flying-types and Levitate users are immune to Sticky Web, Pokemon like Metagross, Aerodactyl, and Tyrantrum that can deal with common Flying-types such as Swellow are useful. Since much of Galvantula's utility stems from its access to Sticky Web, Taunt users and spinblockers such as Noivern, Mismagius, and Honchkrow are helpful to keep Sticky Web on the field. Competitive Milotic can also deter Defog. Focus Sash can be used for nearly guaranteed Sticky Web, but it comes at the cost of a huge loss in power. Energy Ball can hit Ground- and Rock-types such as Rhyperior, Donphan, Gigalith, Diancie, and Seismitoad, although Galvantula misses its ability to acquire momentum for its team.
Galvantula (SS competitive strategy): Due to its great Speed, good offensive typing and coverage, and ability to threaten common entry hazard removers like Charizard and Eldegoss, Galvantula is an effective Sticky Web setter. Its access to Volt Switch in combination with these traits also makes it a decent pivot. However, Galvantula's meager Special Attack hinders its overall damage output. Opting for Life Orb does make up for this, particularly if Galvantula runs Thunder, but doing so means forgoing Heavy-Duty Boots and limiting its staying power. Galvantula also faces competition from other Sticky Web setters in Ribombee and Vikavolt. The former is better against Pokemon like Whimsicott due to its higher Speed, while the latter is much stronger, has Levitate and better bulk, and possesses similar coverage. Thunder is Galvantula's strongest STAB move and doesn't force it to switch out like Volt Switch does. The move's accuracy is also boosted by Compound Eyes, substantially increasing its reliability. Energy Ball can be used instead to put more pressure on Rock- and Ground-types like Regirock and Sandslash. Heavy-Duty Boots negates the effects of entry hazards, giving Galvantula an easier time switching around and annoying offensive teams. Alternatively, Life Orb can be used to bolster Galvantula's offensive presence, giving it a high chance to OHKO Pokemon like defensive Mesprit with Bug Buzz after Stealth Rock. However, losing immunity to entry hazards and taking Life Orb recoil both decrease its overall longevity. Slower wallbreakers and setup sweepers like Haunter and Doublade very much appreciate Galvantula both slowing down potential revenge killers, like Basculin, with Sticky Web and generating momentum for them with Volt Switch. Both of these Pokemon also benefit from Galvantula's ability to force damage onto shared checks like Gigalith and Sandaconda, and can annoy bulkier walls like Togedemaru in return. Rapid Spin users like Coalossal can give Galvantula's teammates easier entry without removing Sticky Web. Support from Rapid Spin users can also allow Galvantula to more comfortably use Life Orb.
Klefki (XY competitive strategy): Klefki's vast support movepool with access to moves such as Spikes, Thunder Wave, dual screens, and Fairy Lock in tandem with its Prankster ability allows it to reliably set up entry hazards and shut down fast Pokemon such as Mega Aerodactyl and Mega Sharpedo. It also has a great defensive typing in Steel / Fairy with only two weaknesses, matching up well against common Pokemon such as Hydreigon, Sylveon, and Crobat. Given its unique utility, Klefki is best used on offense or balance teams to lay entry hazards and provide a catch-all check to faster threats. Klefki also finds itself incredibly flexible with moveslots, as they can be tailored to fit the team's needs. However, Klefki possesses incredibly mediocre stats across the board, largely forcing it to rely on its typing to stomach hits and leaving it more passive than it would prefer if it's not running the ideal moveset to deal with a given Pokemon. Spikes damage grounded opposing Pokemon in order to help pave the way for cleaners in the back. Thunder Wave provides a nice form of speed control and is especially useful against offensive Pokemon to essentially neuter them as threats. Dazzling Gleam is one of Klefki's main STAB moves and allows it to hit huge threats such as Hydreigon, Conkeldurr, Mega Sceptile, and Krookodile for super effective damage. Flash Cannon is the other STAB option and works best when paired with Heal Block, notably allowing it to beat Wish Sylveon one-on-one. Toxic is another useful option, letting Klefki act as a solid answer to bulky Pokemon such as Mandibuzz, Cresselia, and Slowking. Magnet Rise allows Klefki to avoid heavy damage from powerful Ground-types such as Krookodile, Nidoqueen, and Mamoswine and proceed to set up Spikes. Heal Block pairs nicely with Toxic and prevents Pokemon such as Sylveon, Snorlax, and Conkeldurr from using their respective recovery moves. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment with a Calm nature maximizes Klefki's special bulk and gives it the best possible matchup against special attackers such as Mega Sceptile and Hydreigon. Leftovers provides Klefki with a solid form of passive recovery from turn to turn. Prankster gives all of Klefki's non-damaging moves priority, letting it get up layers of Spikes more reliably and paralyze faster Pokemon with Thunder Wave. Klefki should set up Spikes early-game in order to whittle down grounded foes throughout the course of a match. Thunder Wave should be used to cripple fast threats and provide speed control for slower threats in the back. Toxic should be used to cripple bulky Pokemon such as Cresselia and Mandibuzz, severely limiting their longevity. Klefki should use Magnet Rise against Ground-types to essentially wall them and set up more layers of Spikes. Klefki fits best on bulky offense and balance teams that need a catch-all check to fast threats and appreciate its ability to stack entry hazards. Klefki prefers Rapid Spin support as opposed to Defog in order to keep as many entry hazards on the opponent's side as possible; Tentacruel is a solid example. Klefki also pairs nicely with offensive Pokemon that appreciate Spikes support such as Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Sharpedo, Mega Beedrill, Mega Sceptile, and Entei. Defensive Swampert and the aforementioned Tentacruel check some of the offensive Fire- and Steel-types that threaten Klefki and can set up their respective hazards alongside Klefki's Spikes. Roar Suicune also checks many of the Fire- and Steel-types that threaten Klefki and can phaze them to rack up residual damage on the opposing team. Especially if it's not running Magnet Rise, Klefki needs partners that can switch into powerful Ground-types like Krookodile and Nidoking, such as Mandibuzz and Hydreigon. Relatively slow wallbreakers such as Nidoqueen and Choice Specs Chandelure appreciate the speed control provided by Klefki's Thunder Wave. Pokemon that can block Rapid Spin and threaten the common users in Forretress and Tentacruel such as Chandelure, Hoopa, and Jellicent also pair brilliantly with Klefki. Light Screen and Reflect temporarily reduce all damage done to the user's team, giving sweepers in the back more opportunities to set up or attack. Spikes racks up damage on grounded foes, wearing them down for a potential sweep late-game. Fairy Lock prevents the target from switching for one turn, allowing an appropriate sweeper to set up in a favorable matchup behind screens after Klefki is KOed. The HP and Special Defense investment with a Calm nature allows Klefki to take hits as well as possible and aids it in setting up screens and entry hazards. Light Clay increases the duration of Light Screen and Reflect from five turns to eight, giving sweepers a larger window to set up or attack. Prankster gives priority to all of Klefki's non-damaging moves, letting it set up screens and entry hazards on faster Pokemon much more easily. This Klefki set should be used exclusively on hyper offense teams that appreciate screens and Spikes support. Klefki should set up screens early in the game in order for its teammates to take as little damage as possible as they either set up or exert offensive pressure. After setting up screens, Klefki should set up as many entry hazards as possible to whittle down opposing walls for offensive partners. Fairy Lock should only be used when the user expects Klefki to be KOed so that a teammate can take advantage of the trapped foe. Sweepers that appreciate screens support such as Belly Drum Slurpuff, Dragon Dance Haxorus, Nasty Plot Celebi, and Dragon Dance Gyarados make for good partners, as they have a much easier time setting up. Klefki also pairs well with Pokemon such as Mega Aerodactyl and Taunt Krookodile that threaten and pressure common Defog users such as Crobat and Mandibuzz. Klefki makes for a solid weather setter when holding the corresponding item to increase the condition's duration thanks to its Prankster ability. Foul Play is an option as an attack on the support set, but a STAB move or Toxic is generally preferred.
Klefki (SM competitive strategy): Klefki's massive utility movepool alongside its Prankster ability makes it a premier support Pokemon in the UU metagame and the best user of Spikes by far. Its amazing defensive typing alongside access to moves like Thunder Wave and Magnet Rise allows it to very adequately check top-tier threats, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Latias, Mega Beedrill, and Hydreigon. Klefki also possesses a lot of flexibility in terms of which moves it can opt to run, which, alongside its ability to set up Spikes, allows it to fit very comfortably on offensive and balanced teams alike. Unfortunately, Klefki lacks recovery, which in tandem with its subpar bulk leaves it prone to being worn down, thus preventing it from reliably checking foes it aims to check from time to time. Klefki also lacks an offensive presence, which leaves it reliant on hitting foes super effectively to avoid being too passive. Spikes gives Klefki a way of supporting its teammates with entry hazards, punishing grounded foes that switch in and out of play. Thunder Wave cripples fast offensive threats like Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Pidgeot, and Talonflame with paralysis and gives Klefki a way of easily spreading status. Toxic cripples defensive Pokemon that may try stalling Klefki out, such as Hippowdon and Alomomola, and is also good for crippling various setup sweepers like Latias. Magnet Rise grants Klefki a temporary immunity to Ground-type moves that can allow it to ease its matchup against Ground-types like Krookodile and Gligar. Play Rough is Klefki's best source of damage against Latias, and it is also useful for pressuring Fighting- and Dark-type Pokemon like Terrakion and Hydreigon. Foul Play is also an option for punishing physically offensive Pokemon that stay in on Klefki, such as Scizor and Mega Beedrill. However, it generally isn't worth it due to leaving Klefki walled by Dark-types, and Klefki is also very reliant on Scizor setting up in order to actually pressure it with the attack. Lastly, Reflect can be used to aid Klefki's teammates in setting up or attacking against physically offensive Pokemon. Heavy investment in HP alongside maximum investment in Special Defense with a positive nature nearly maximizes Klefki's special bulk, allowing it to check threats like Togekiss, Latias, and Hydreigon as reliably as possible. 8 EVs are invested in Speed to allow Klefki to outrun Mega Pidgeot and everything slower after paralysis. A Careful nature is used to further bolster Klefki's special bulk while preventing Play Rough's power from dropping. Leftovers gives Klefki a form of passive recovery, providing it with decent longevity. Prankster is the preferred ability, giving Klefki's status moves a +1 boost in priority and securing its niche as a reliable Spikes setter. Klefki should look to set up Spikes early-game, as this will effectively deal good chip damage to foes throughout the course of the match. If setting up Spikes early on proves to be a monumental task, Klefki should try coming in on a foe that it can adequately tank hits from, such as Choice-locked Hydreigon or Togekiss, as this will create an opportunity to easily set at least a layer or two. Once Spikes is set, Klefki should be preserved for later on instead of being sacrificed, as it can work as an emergency check to various fast sweepers due to priority Thunder Wave and Toxic. Thunder Wave should be used against offensive threats that Klefki can tank at least one hit from, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Pidgeot, Latias, and Starmie, as the paralysis will cripple them for the remainder of the match. Due to Klefki's passive nature, it should look to use Toxic to cripple various Pokemon that try setting up on it like Latias or, if it isn't using Toxic, switch out into a Pokemon capable of taking care of the sweeper it has invited in so as not to generate more free turns. Klefki should only look to attack against threats that it's capable of adequately damaging, such as Mega Sceptile, or, if it's using Foul Play, against Pokemon that try using it as setup bait, such as Scizor. If Magnet Rise is being run, Klefki should use it against Ground-types like Krookodile and Nidoqueen and Pokemon that often carry Ground-type coverage, like Mega Aerodactyl, in order to blanket check them and reliably set up Spikes. Due to its ability to cripple fast threats with Thunder Wave while easily setting Spikes, Klefki is the main component of Spikes offense and usually fits best on offensive builds as a result. Rapid Spin support from the likes of Tentacruel and Starmie prevents Klefki from having to set Spikes more than once while also allowing it to check various threats more reliably due to refraining from taking chip damage. Cleaners like Mega Sharpedo and Zygarde-10% are fantastic Pokemon to pair with Klefki, as they can utilize its Spikes support to easily finish off weakened teams. Wallbreakers like Nidoking, Choice Band Scizor, and Terrakion appreciate the Spikes support Klefki provides them with, while setup sweepers like Infernape and Cobalion also enjoy utilizing Spikes to break past foes more easily. Water-types like Suicune, Swampert, and Mega Blastoise can switch into the Fire- and Steel-types that Klefki generally hates dealing with, while they in return appreciate its ability to switch into Grass-type attacks. Klefki appreciates Ground-type switch-ins if it isn't running Magnet Rise, which makes Flying-types like Talonflame and Moltres and Grass-types like Mega Sceptile and Celebi good options as teammates. Latias and Hydreigon have particularly good synergy with Klefki, as both resist or are immune to the types that Klefki is weak to, and they appreciate its Spikes and Thunder Wave support and ability to come in on Fairy-, Dragon-, and Bug-type attacks. Dazzling Gleam is an option over Play Rough to more heavily damage the likes of Krookodile, Bewear, and Crawdaunt. However, it doesn't allow Klefki to damage Latias, which often uses Calm Mind, as reliably. Hidden Power Fire is another option for luring in and heavily damaging Scizor. However, it also isn't often preferred due to leaving Klefki unable to do anything to Pokemon like Hydreigon and Mega Sharpedo. A dual screens set with Light Clay is an option for giving Klefki a way of reliably supporting setup sweepers, but it is usually less consistently useful than the standard set. Defog can be run, allowing Klefki to take advantage of Prankster to remove entry hazards, but it is hard to fit on the set and removes the Spikes Klefki sets up as well as opposing hazards. Flash Cannon can be used as a Steel-type STAB attack, but it will almost never cover as many threats as either Fairy-type STAB moves or Foul Play.
Klefki (SS competitive strategy): Klefki is a defensive Spikes user that brings a myriad of utility options to offensive teams. Its spectacular typing allows it to check common threats like Togekiss, Gardevoir, and Noivern. Thunder Wave serves as a great form of speed control, allowing Klefki to shut down sweepers such as Polteageist and cripple the likes of Noivern and Crobat. Toxic in the final slot ensures that Klefki has a way to threaten Ground-type Pokemon like Golurk and Electric-type Pokemon like Xurkitree and Raikou, though it is less valuable for faster paced offensive teams, as the gradual poisoning damage doesn't have as many turns to add up. Foul Play can be used over Toxic in order to give Klefki a way to punish a number of its checks, such as Golurk, Metagross, and Bronzong, as they switch in. Magnet Rise is an option that allows Klefki to continue setting Spikes even against certain Ground-type Pokemon like Nidoqueen and Flygon. A specially defensive EV spread is used to allow Klefki to more easily take hits from the likes of Gardevoir and Togekiss. 16 Speed EVs allow it to outspeed paralyzed Noivern. Klefki pairs well with offensive threats that benefit from its ability to wear down grounded pokemon with Spikes, like Xurkitree and Sharpedo. Water-types like Gastrodon and Golisopod make for good partners, helping it deal with the Pokemon like Steelix and Metagross. It also partners well with Celebi, as it's able to take on and cripple most of the Flying-types that check it with Thunder Wave. Finally, slower wallbreakers like Heracross, Toxtricity, and Bewear appreciate Klefki's ability to spread paralysis around so they can punch holes through the enemy team.
Klefki (SV competitive strategy): Klefki is an incredibly crafty support Pokemon, making use of its incredible combination of ability, movepool, and typing to bring mayhem to the battlefield. Klefki's Prankster ability lets it scatter Spikes, spread paralysis with Thunder Wave, summon rain and sun, and even boost its own stats before the foe can act; it's a very malleable Pokemon that can find itself on almost any team due to its supportive capabilities. Klefki's highly coveted Steel / Fairy typing makes it a great sponge for special attacks, taking on the likes of Munkidori, Espeon, and Dragalge while also resisting Knock Off and U-turn. Although Klefki has many tricks up its sleeve, offense is not one of them, since it uses paltry base 80 offensive stats and often relies on Foul Play to not be a complete sitting duck. Any means to circumvent Prankster-affected moves such as Magic Bounce, Dark-types, and Taunt can generally spell doom for Klefki. Dark-types like Incineroar, Alolan Muk, and Tera Dark Drednaw can take advantage of Klefki's inability to status them. Despite Klefki's phenomenal defensive typing, its stats often leave much to be desired, meaning some special wallbreakers like Porygon-Z and Indeedee-M can eventually overwhelm it even in spite of a type disadvantage. Foul Play enables Klefki to hit physical attackers for big damage it'd be unable to achieve using its own Attack stat, hitting Pokemon like Brambleghast and Gallade. Magnet Rise lets Klefki turn the tables on Ground-types like Flygon, Swampert, and Gligar with the former being weak to Dazzling Gleam. Maximum Special Defense investment lets Klefki deal with powerful special attackers in the tier like Munkidori and Dragalge. Tera Water lets Klefki take Fire-type attacks from Chandelure and Infernape in a pinch. Klefki's specially bulky nature makes it pair excellently with physical walls on balance teams, it is typically seen with Pokemon like Vaporeon and Swampert, as they can handle Fire-types like Infernape and Incineroar. Ghost-types like Chandelure and Brambleghast can block Rapid Spin to maintain Klefki's entry hazards, as do Defog deterrents like Galarian Articuno and Competitive Kilowattrel. Klefki's Prankster Thunder Wave is great speed control for slow, powerful wallbreakers like Choice Specs Chandelure and Toxtricity and Guts Heracross. Klefki can utilize its Prankster ability to run a Double Dance set; boosting its Defense with Iron Defense and special stats with Calm Mind while maintaining its health with Draining Kiss to turn Stored Power into an unwallable attack. Klefki can sport a Damp Rock or Heat Rock along with Rain Dance or Sunny Day, respectively, to facilitate those respective weather teams. Klefki can use Eject Button or Red Card in tandem with Prankster Recycle to repeatedly pivot itself or its foe out of play. Klefki can hold onto a Toxic Orb, which won't affect it, and use Switcheroo to bestow it onto an unsuspecting target like Oricorio-E, which can otherwise set up on Klefki safely.
Farigiraf (SV competitive strategy): Farigiraf can reach great heights as a setup sweeper thanks to its great bulk and solid Special Attack. Psyshock hits specially bulky Pokemon such as Snorlax and Articuno and ignores Special Defense boosts on sweepers like Oricorio-F and Jolteon. As Farigiraf accumulates multiple boosts, though, Stored Power helps it become a taller order for teams to check, and it hits physically bulkier Pokemon like Regirock and Sandaconda harder. However, Stored Power provides less immediate damage for breaking teams and is more inflexible by requiring Farigiraf to spend multiple turns boosting. Farigiraf can effectively use Tera Blast as a STAB move to beat Dark-types like Persian-Alola and Sneasel. After Terastallizing, it transforms into Tera Blast Fire, which lets it beat Orthworm, Magneton, Spiritomb, and Tera Steel Pokemon like Rotom-C and Weezing. Armor Tail aids Farigiraf's sweep by denying priority attacks like Aqua Jet from Accelrock from Lycanroc and Ice Shard from Sneasel. Armor Tail also saves Farigiraf from being locked into its setup by Prankster Encore from Whimsicott and Sableye. Farigiraf can invest fully in its Special Attack to become immediately more threatening, potentially sweeping just off of Agility, but full investment in HP gives it better opportunities to use multiple setup moves; Psyshock is better tailored for sets with maximum Special Attack investment, compared to Stored Power, which works better on maximum HP sets where it can more comfortably accumulate multiple boosts. Farigiraf fits on hyper offensive teams as a setup sweeper. Fellow setup sweepers such as Virizion and Oricorio-F greatly appreciate partnering with Farigiraf, given its positive matchups against Prankster disruptors like Whimsicott and Sableye. Powerful offensive partners like Glastrier, Virizion, and Typhlosion can break holes in teams for Farigiraf to more easily sweep. Farigiraf has to exhaust Terastallization in order to beat Spiritomb, so it appreciates partners that can deal with it, such as Whimsicott and Magneton. Hyper offense leads like Froslass and Lycanroc can set up entry hazards to help weaken foes like Regirock and Dipplin to better enable Farigiraf to sweep. Orthworm is a tough target for Fargiraf to break on its own, so it appreciates help from Fire-type teammates like Charizard, Typhlosion, and Oricorio-F that can pressure it. Fighting-type partners like Passimian, Virizion, and Hitmontop can handle Orthworm as well as another obstacle to Farigiraf in Regirock. Hisuian Sneasel is a standout partner for Farigiraf by checking all three aforementioned stops to it, while Fargiraf pressures its defensive answers such as Weezing and Muk. Tera Fairy blunts the damage from Knock Off and other Dark-type moves from Sneasel, Spiritomb, and Passimian, and it also denies Dragon Tail from Dipplin and Appletun. Tera Fighting beats Steel-types, hits Snorlax harder and sooner than Stored Power can with limited boosts, and also flips Farigiraf's Dark and Bug weaknesses. A Weakness Policy on Stored Power sets can take advantage of weaker attacks like Knock Off and U-turn from Mesprit but is situational, tough to activate, and limits Farigiraf's longevity. Cud Chew, with a Sitrus Berry, can give Farigiraf more concentrated recovery than Leftovers, and, with a Lum Berry, it can help it more comfortably set up against Glare Sandaconda and Toxic Toedscruel. Sap Sipper can provide Farigiraf with setup opportunities against Whimsicott and Shaymin locked into Grass-type moves. However, Armor Tail best enables Farigiraf as a sweeper by guarding it from priority moves. Farigiraf can run an offensive Trick Room set, though Alolan Exeggutor often does this role better because of its greater power and coverage. Farigiraf has other options in its movepool such as Future Sight, Wish, and Roar but struggles to support teams with its mediocre defensive typing.
Thundurus (BW competitive strategy): heal the damage inflicted by Seismic Toss with Recover. Support Arceus, Arceus-Ghost with Will-O-Wisp, and Skarmory can check Extreme users such as Zekrom, Dialga, and Palkia will still beat Thundurus priority moves in their arsenal, such Rayquaza, Arceus, and Lucario, can
Thundurus (XY competitive strategy): Thundurus is one of the top offensive threats in modern ORAS. It outspeeds a majority of the OU tier given that it lies just above the crucial base 110 Speed tier. Its unique typing and decent bulk make it a decent pivot against common metagame staples such as Excadrill, Serperior, and Tornadus-T. It also has access to both Thunder Wave and Knock Off, two great tools that disrupt both defensive and offensive teams. Prankster Thunder Wave allows Thundurus to act as an emergency check to sweepers and faster threats, giving it valuable utility for offensive teams. Thundurus also has access to Nasty Plot, making it a powerful sweeper. Finally, it has access to Focus Blast, making it one of the few Electric-types that can punish Excadrill and Ferrothorn. Unfortunately, Thundurus has no recovery moves and is weak to Stealth Rock, making it hard to preserve throughout the match. Furthermore, it doesn't learn powerful or reliable Flying-type moves such as Hurricane and Air Slash. Thunder Wave, alongside Prankster, makes Thundurus a very strong disruptive and anti-offense tool. Hidden Power Ice hits bulky Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Gliscor, Grass-types such as Serperior and Amoonguss, and Dragon-types such as Latias and Garchomp. Focus Blast hits Pokemon that resist Electric and take little damage from Hidden Power Ice, such as Excadrill, Ferrothorn, Quagsire, and Kyurem-B. Volt Switch provides the team with momentum, allowing Thundurus to chip its counters such as Chansey and Clefable while pivoting into a teammate that can threaten them out immediately. With how prevalent Stealth Rock is and how hard it is to get it off, Volt Switch is the preferred STAB move over Thunderbolt, as it accumulates more damage throughout the game with all the momentum it grabs with Stealth Rock up. Prankster gives Thundurus priority Thunder Wave, allowing it act as an emergency check to sweepers and faster threats. Leftovers is the chosen item on Thundurus over the traditional Life Orb because it mitigates Thundurus's weakness to Stealth Rock and provides longevity. Rocky Helmet is an alternative that indirectly increases Thundurus's damage, and it can be used to chip Pokemon going for weak moves such as U-turn, Rapid Spin, and Fake Out. The given spread with a Timid enables Thundurus to threaten base 110 Speed Pokemon effectively. Thundurus's unique coverage of both Hidden Power Ice and Focus Blast allows it to bypass the most commonly used Ground-types, mainly Excadrill, Landorus-T, and Garchomp. Thunder Wave should be used against sweepers that can otherwise sweep your team, such as Volcarona, Mega Charizard X, and Serperior. With another Volt Switch or U-turn user, Thundurus can initiate momentum loops that can create a lot of passive damage on the enemy team, especially with Stealth Rock up. Thundurus fits well on offensive teams, as it provides both offensive pressure and utility in Prankster Thunder Wave. Thundurus thrives with teammates that can create VoltTurn cores with its own Volt Switch, such as Mega Scizor and Landorus-T with U-turn and Rotom-W with Volt Switch. Pokemon such as Serperior, Clefable, and Latios that can take advantage of bulky Ground-types such as Hippowdon, Gastrodon, and Seismitoad are greatly appreciated. Strong Stealth Rock setters that can keep Stealth Rock on the enemy's side of the field such as Garchomp and Landorus-T are also great, as they can elevate Thundurus's pressure with Stealth Rock's constant presence. Prankster Thunder Wave enables Thundurus to cripple faster attackers and sweepers, especially in ORAS where paralysis is a 75% Speed reduction. Hidden Power Ice allows Thundurus to 2HKO many common Ground-types, even without Special Attack investment, including Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Gliscor. Knock Off provides further utility by removing important items such as Leftovers from common switch-ins such as Hippowdon, Excadrill, and Clefable. Focus Blast is an alternative that can still 2HKO Excadrill even without Special Attack investment. Taunt enables Thundurus to disrupt both its defensive and offensive answers, especially with Prankster. Volt Switch takes advantage of Thundurus's ability to force doubles to give its teammates safe switch ins. Prankster gives Thundurus priority Thunder Wave and Taunt, allowing it to be a great disrupter of both defensive and offensive teams. Rocky Helmet is the preferred item, as it reduces Thundurus's passivity that it can suffer from a lack of Special Attack investment. However, Leftovers is still a valid option, as it maximizes Thundurus's longevity and mitigates its Stealth Rock weakness. The given spread maximizes Thundurus's overall bulk while letting it survive Mega Lopunny's combination of Fake Out and Return. This allows Thundurus to pivot into Mega Lopunny multiple times throughout the game if timed correctly. Maximum Speed with a Timid nature is used to outspeed base 110s such as Mega Diancie and Mega Metagross. Thundurus's unique typing, decent bulk, and access to Prankster Thunder Wave enable it to be a great blanket check to many offensive threats that are susceptible to paralysis. Pokemon like Mega Lopunny, Mega Charizard X, Mega Altaria, and Weavile often have to switch out from Thundurus despite being able to OHKO it out of fear from getting paralyzed by Prankster Thunder Wave. Knock Off is a great tool to cripple the enemy team slowly, especially early-game. Thundurus is often a great lead, but be sure to preserve it as much as possible to maintain its ability to provide speed control and an emergency Thunder Wave. Bulky Thundurus fits well on both offensive teams and bulky offensive teams. Most teams appreciate Prankster Thunder Wave, especially ones that are susceptible to getting swept. Pokemon that can reliably remove Stealth Rock from the field, such as Rapid Spin Excadrill and Defog Latias, are greatly appreciated, as they can extend Thundurus's longevity. Pokemon that can cover Thundurus's weakness to Rock- and Ice-type attacks, such as Keldeo, Bisharp, and Mega Metagross, are great partners. Nasty Plot allows Thundurus to become an immediate threat, allowing it to OHKO or 2HKO most of the metagame. Hidden Power Ice hits bulky Ground-types such as Garchomp, Gliscor, and Landorus-T. After a Nasty Plot boost, it can 2HKO many of Thundurus's checks such as Hippowdon, Latias, and Amoonguss. Focus Blast provides great damage on Electric-resistant foes such as Excadrill, Ferrothorn, Gastrodon, Mega Charizard X, and Kyurem-B. Thunderbolt is the preferred STAB option, as it provides the most consistent damage, especially because Volt Switch results in removing the Nasty Plot boosts. Prankster is still the preferred ability on Thundurus even without Thunder Wave, as Thunder Wave can still be bluffed before the Nasty Plot reveal. Alternatively, Defiant can bluff a mixed offensive set, which can be used to Thundurus's advantage if timed correctly on a Defog. Leftovers is the preferred item to provide Thundurus with longevity, allowing it to possibly set up Nasty Plot more than once per game. Life Orb is still a strong option, as it turns Thundurus to a powerful nuke, especially after Nasty Plot. Many of its near OHKOs, such as those on Serperior and Latios, become guaranteed with the additional Life Orb boost. The given spread with a Timid nature allows Thundurus to be as fast and powerful as possible, taking full advantage of its base 111 Speed and making it harder to revenge kill. Against slower teams, Thundurus can find opportunities to set up on more passive Pokemon, such as utility Excadrill and Ferrothorn, to attempt to punch holes in the enemy team composition. Against more offensive teams, it is more advisable for Thundurus to not set up and simply focus on attacking, as this proves to be more effective at disrupting the opposing team's strategy, and it can maintain the Thunder Wave bluff for as long as possible. Nasty Plot Thundurus is mostly used on offensive teams that can create momentum and double down on the holes in the enemy team Thundurus can often create. Nasty Plot Thundurus is much easier to revenge kill than Thunder Wave variants, so teammates that can switch in on strong threats such as Weavile and Mega Lopunny are great. Pokemon that can get timely entry hazard removal, such as Rapid Spin Excadrill and Defog Latias, are also appreciated. Latias in particular also has access to Healing Wish, which can synergize well with Nasty Plot Thundurus, giving it a second chance to sweep after trading its health to weaken the enemy team. A mixed offensive set with Defiant is old but still viable. Superpower and Knock Off are surprise coverage moves that hit some of Thundurus's typical checks hard, especially after a +2 boost from Defog. Grass Knot and Hidden Power Flying are two very notable coverage moves on Thundurus, especially the Nasty Plot set, as they can aid it in getting past common counters such as Hippowdon, Gastrodon, and Mega Venusaur. It is also worth to note that Rocky Helmet can still be used on the Nasty Plot set, as it provides chip damage on Fake Out users and can let Thundurus bluff a Thunder Wave set better.
Thundurus (SM competitive strategy): Thundurus acts as a niche wallbreaker in the tier thanks to its great Special Attack, colorful coverage, and access to a potent boosting option in Nasty Plot, allowing it to break through metagame staples like Ferrothorn, Toxapex, Tornadus-T, and Celesteela. Thundurus also has a respectable Speed stat, letting it outpace common Pokemon in Garchomp, Kartana, and Mega Latios, and an Electric / Flying typing gives it some useful defensive merits such as an immunity to Earthquake and a resistance to Grass and Flying; these notably allow it to stay in on bulky Grass-types like specially defensive Tapu Bulu and Tangrowth and means it can check Pokemon like Tornadus-T and Kartana. However, Thundurus's mediocre bulk and weakness to Stealth Rock mean it can't do this very reliably. Though Thundurus has overall good coverage, it struggles to break through Grass-types like Amoonguss and Mega Venusaur as well as Calm Mind Mega Latias thanks to its best attack for them being the weak Hidden Power Ice, which they negate with their abilities or stat boosts. Unfortunately, despite its good typing and decent Speed tier, Thundurus is very prone to being revenge killed, either by faster Pokemon like Ash-Greninja, Mega Alakazam, and Tapu Koko or by priority from the likes of Mega Mawile and Mega Medicham. Hidden Power Ice has fantastic coverage alongside Thunderbolt, hitting Ground-types like Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Garchomp as well as Grass-types like Tapu Bulu, Tangrowth, and Amoonguss. Focus Blast rounds out the set's coverage, hitting Heatran, Ferrothorn, Mega Tyranitar, Chansey, and Kyurem for super effective damage. 4 Defense EVs let Thundurus take two unboosted Leaf Blades from Kartana at full HP. Fightinium Z gives Thundurus access to a powerful All-Out Pummeling, which coupled with a Nasty Plot boost can help it break through Pokemon like Assault Vest Tyranitar and Gastrodon. It also helps with the stall matchup, providing Thundurus with a nuke that can break through Quagsire and even Chansey if it has taken some prior damage. Leftovers is an alternative if the Z-Crystal is already in use on Thundurus's team, improving Thundurus's ability to check certain threats while also making it more resistant to being revenge killed. However, it comes at the cost of a worsened stall matchup. Early- and mid-game, bring in Thundurus through double switches, on a free switch from Volt Switch or U-turn, or after a teammate faints to break through teams; set up Nasty Plot on forced switches in order to break through the opposing team. Thanks to Thundurus's typing and coverage, it can stay in on Grass-types like Ferrothorn, specially defensive Tapu Bulu, and Tangrowth that may try to switch in on a predicted Thunderbolt. Aside from its offensive capabilities, Thundurus can be used as a switch-in to Pokemon like Landorus-T, Tornadus-T, and Kartana, though it should be noted that it will fall to coverage from Landorus-T and can lose to the other two if Stealth Rock is up or it has taken even minor chip damage. Furthermore, if Thundurus takes too much damage from trying to check these Pokemon, it will no longer be able to take a hit from the aforementioned Grass-types after setting up, forfeiting its ability to break through them. Against more offensive teams, it can be better to just throw out attacks rather than to set up, as Thundurus won't have as many opportunities to set up due to being outsped by Pokemon commonly found on such teams like Mega Alakazam, Greninja, and Tapu Koko. Thundurus should be used on offensive teams due to its fragility and relative lack of setup opportunities, so it should be paired with other Pokemon that fit on this archetype. Mega Latias is a big issue for Thundurus; 3 Attacks Mega Latias can comfortably take a +2 Hidden Power Ice and retaliate with Ice Beam, which can KO after Stealth Rock, while Calm Mind Mega Latias actually uses Thundurus as setup fodder. Pursuit support from Tyranitar and Weavile can remove Mega Latias, making them very valuable partners. VoltTurn users like Landorus-T, Assault Vest Magearna, and Tornadus-T are great assets to Thundurus, as they give it more opportunities to wallbreak. Entry hazard setters like Focus Sash Landorus-T, Greninja, and Excadrill work well alongside Thundurus on hyper offensive teams, as they help to weaken its checks in range with Stealth Rock and Spikes. Sticky Web is an interesting option, rendering Pokemon like Mega Alakazam and Protean Greninja unable to revenge kill Thundurus, so Araquanid and Ribombee can be good partners to set it up. Sweepers found on hyper offense like Shift Gear Magearna, Dragon Dance Mega Charizard X, and Dragon Dance Mega Gyarados that can clean up after Thundurus has broken through the opposing team are great teammates. Hidden Power Flying is an option over Hidden Power Ice that gives Thundurus a better matchup against Grass-types, specifically Amoonguss and Mega Venusaur. It leaves Thundurus unable to OHKO Landorus-T and Gliscor, though, making it the worse choice of Hidden Power the majority of the time. A Defiant set with the moves Thunderbolt, Hidden Power Ice, Knock Off, and Superpower could be used as a means of deterring Defog. However, it can prove to be inconsistent due to its inability to garner any boosts outside of Defiant. Because of this, it has to use Life Orb to attempt to make its offensive presence more consistent, causing it to be worn down exceptionally quickly. Thunder Wave is a decent option over Nasty Plot, providing good general speed control by crippling sweepers and faster Pokemon like Shift Gear Magearna, Mega Alakazam, Dragon Dance Mega Charizard X, and Mega Lopunny, which allows it to act as an emergency check to them. It also catches Tornadus-T if they try to pivot out safely with U-turn.
Meowscarada (SV competitive strategy): Meowscarada is one of the tier's premier offensive pivots thanks to its stupendous Speed, a critical benchmark that lets it outspeed scary threats like Cinderace, Iron Valiant, and Serperior. Knock Off scares some of the tier's key dangers like Deoxys-S, Dragapult, and Gholdengo while simultaneously threatening to cripple other switch-ins like Hatterene and Corviknight. Flower Trick cuts through bulky threats such as Dondozo, Great Tusk, and Primarina, even ignoring the former two's potential Defense boosts, while Triple Axel gives Meowscarada a crucial Ice-type STAB move that allows it to nail common Pokemon such as Clodsire, Gliscor, and Raging Bolt. U-turn keeps up momentum while chipping switch-ins such as Kingambit and Hatterene. Heavy-Duty Boots is practically a requirement on this set, as Meowscarada will frequently be switching in and out of combat and is otherwise quite weak to hazards. Tera Grass and Dark enhance Flower Trick and Knock Off, while Tera Fire is an option that grants Meowscarada some crucial resistances to Fairy, Ice, and Steel-type attacks such as those from Enamorus, Darkrai, and Choice Scarf Gholdengo. Tera Electric is an additional option that allows Meowscarada to feast on Zapdos more effectively thanks to a newly gained Static immunity and resistance to both of its STAB moves. Meowscarada fits best on balance teams that need a way to force hazard chip along with Knock Off spam to whittle down or outright threaten Pokemon that otherwise don't mind Knock Off such as Gliscor. Meowscarada's frailty courtesy of its pitiful bulk is sometimes hard to work around and limits its switch in opportunities, especially with common weaknesses courtesy of its exploitable defensive typing and a nasty 4x weakness to U-turn. Furthermore, Meowscarada, while being quite fast, is still outsped by monsters such as Darkrai, Dragapult, Weavile, and Zamazenta, the latter of which happens to be one of Meowscarada's best checks. Weavile's offensive tenacity combined with deadly Speed makes it a potent threat, which is why Rocky Helmet Skarmory is one of Meowscarada's best partner options on balance teams, as it punishes Triple Axel spam and shrugs off Weavile's hits comparatively easily. Meowscarada's role as an offensive pivot helps chip away at opposing cores while also bringing some of their key defensive threats into OHKO range for some frail teammates like Darkrai, Iron Boulder, and Gholdengo. Dragapult is another great partner for Meowscarada; it can blank Fighting-type attacks and follow up with a fast Will-O-Wisp to neuter Zamazenta as well. Meowscarada's defensive woes can be covered by bulky teammates that don't mind taking coverage moves from faster threats. On the physical side, Great Tusk's role as a physically bulky offensive spinner with synergistic typing opens up multiple opportunities to clear hazards. On the special side, Clodsire and Galarian Slowking are both impressive partners thanks to their longevity and fantastic defensive profiles, with the former being able to blank setup sweepers like Darkrai and the latter being able to continue Meowscarada's momentum chain by using a slow Chilly Reception to take a hit or scout a switch, allowing Meowscarada to come in safely. Additionally, Galarian Slowking also threatens Pokemon that would commonly switch into Meowscarada like Iron Defense Zamazenta with Future Sight. With a Choice Scarf equipped, Meowscarada serves as one of the fastest pivots and revenge killers in the game, matching well against many faster threats such as Dragapult and Deoxys-S as well as many boosted threats such as Speed Booster Energy Iron Valiant and opposing Choice Scarf users like Gholdengo, Landorus-T, and Latios. Knock Off helps remove items such as Heavy-Duty Boots and Rocky Helmet from switch-ins such as Corviknight, Galarian Weezing, and Moltres, allowing Meowscarada to continue chipping them down safely while making it easier to break through long-term. U-turn pivots out of bad matchups like the aforementioned checks, generating progress for Meowscarada’s teammates by helping them get onto the field safely as well as stinging Hisuian Samurott, Darkrai, and Ogerpon-W. Triple Axel hits Gliscor, Landorus-T, Dragonite, and Choice Scarf Enamorus incredibly hard, OHKOing all of them, as well as being Meowscarada’s strongest neutral attack against Iron Valiant and Kyurem, letting it revenge kill them after they are chipped. Flower Trick can be used to revenge kill Choice Scarf Hisuian Samurott and Tera Water Ogerpon-W even after a Trailblaze as well as muscle past Dondozo and Garganacl even after a Defense boost. Alternatively, Trick can help Meowscarada cripple walls such as Corviknight and Galarian Weezing, giving it the flexibility of being able to switch moves later in a game, especially against bulkier teams where the extra Speed is not as necessary. It can also cripple Kingambit and other setup sweepers like Zamazenta and Hatterene that Meowscarada can't threaten easily if they're still healthy. Tera Ghost is used for an immunity to Extreme Speed from Dragonite and Fighting-type moves such as Body Press from Zamazenta and Vacuum Wave from Iron Valiant, allowing Meowscarada to potentially flip its matchup and revenge kill or neutralize them in an emergency. However, after Terastallizing, Meowscarada’s attacks do not get a Protean boost, so it should be used carefully. Choice Scarf Meowscarada sees use on offense and bulky offense teams that appreciate having a fast pivot that can outspeed most forms of traditional speed control. Pokemon such as Ting-Lu, Iron Treads, and Garchomp pair very well with Meowscarada, as they can set entry hazards to build up chip damage over time, while Meowscarada helps remove Heavy-Duty Boots from users such as Zamazenta, Moltres, and Galarian Weezing. Ting-Lu can also switch into special attackers that threaten Meowscarada such as Heatran and Iron Moth. Gholdengo is a natural fit that synergizes perfectly with Meowscarada, helping against many of its checks such as Zamazenta, Kyurem, Galarian Weezing, and Corviknight. Raging Bolt can handle Moltres, Scizor, and Zapdos and form a VoltTurn pivoting core with Meowscarada if it has Volt Switch, while Meowscarada can help against Ground-types such as Ting-Lu and Gliscor that annoy Raging Bolt. Meowscarada’s frailty leaves it vulnerable to priority users that can circumvent its high Speed such as Lokix, Kingambit, and Dragonite. Therefore, Pokemon such as Moltres, Great Tusk, and Corviknight are valued for their ability to deal with these threats; furthermore, Moltres can bring Meowscarada in safely with U-turn, Great Tusk can remove entry hazards to let Meowcarada pivot around more freely, and Corviknight can do both. Additional pivots that complement Meowscarada well include Galarian Slowking and Iron Crown for their ability to check Clefable, Pecharunt, and Galarian Weezing as well as pressure switch-ins to Meowscarada such as Zamazenta with Future Sight. Against bulkier teams, wallbreakers such as Ogerpon-W, Swords Dance Gliscor, and Nasty Plot Tornadus-T are great assets, as they can overwhelm shared checks such as Corviknight and Zapdos and break the balance cores that Meowscarada struggles against. Similarly, other wallbreakers like Zamazenta and Kyurem can help keep up the pressure against these teams. Thanks to an excellent Speed tier, Protean, and a great offensive movepool, Choice Band Meowscarada is a solid wallbreaker and pivot that can also act as a decent revenge killer. Meowscarada's STAB moves help in emphasizing its wallbreaking role; the critical hits provided by Flower Trick can break through Defense-boosting threats like Great Tusk, Dondozo, and Garganacl, and Knock Off removing held items like Heavy-Duty Boots and Rocky Helmet from checks like Moltres, Galarian Weezing, and Corviknight makes it easier for Meowscarada to overwhelm them long-term. On top of threatening OHKOs on foes like Ogerpon-W and Rillaboom, Meowscarada's fast U-turn is a great utility move that can get it out of bad matchups as well as do solid chip damage throughout a battle to bulkier checks and foes that it can't immediately knock out like Kingambit, Kyurem, and bulky Cinderace while preserving momentum and bringing its teammates in safely. Triple Axel is important to handle Pokemon like Dragonite, Gliscor, Zapdos, and Raging Bolt while being a strong neutral attack against Corviknight and Galarian Weezing. Tera Grass adds an additional boost to Flower Trick, such as 2HKOing a would-be check in Tinkaton, as well as allowing Meowscarada to survive a Moonblast from Enamorus and a Close Combat from Zamazenta if necessary. Tera Dark gives Knock Off some extra power, such as having good odds to 2HKO Moltres and bulky Cinderace, and it gives Meowscarada a stronger defensive profile against threats like Dragonite and Great Tusk's Ice Spinner in a pinch. Tera Ghost allows Meowscarada to dodge Dragonite's Extreme Speed and Zamazenta's Fighting-type moves. It's important to remember that Terastallizing Meowscarada has a big trade-off, as disabling Protean can make it a less effective wallbreaker throughout the game. Meowscarada fits well on balanced and bulky offense teams. Galarian Slowking is an example of a solid teammate that can tank hits from Zamazenta and Iron Valiant, spread paralysis as a form of speed control, and pivot to Meowscarada safely with Chilly Reception on switch-ins like Ting-Lu, Gholdengo, and opposing Galarian Slowking while also providing it a defensive boost via Protean Triple Axel. Cinderace is a fast offensive pivot with U-turn that can form a solid core with Meowscarada to chip foes down throughout a game. Meowscarada can take advantage of foes like Alomomola, Primarina, and Gliscor that Cinderace invites in, while Cinderace can handle Steel-types like Corviknight and Kingambit that Meowscarada has a hard time dealing with. Meowscarada's early-game pressure is extremely helpful in setting up late-game cleaners like Kingambit, Dragonite, and Zamazenta to overwhelm weakened teams, especially as it puts pressure on foes that check them like Landorus-T, Alomomola, and Great Tusk. Great Tusk, Iron Treads, Hatterene, and the aforementioned Cinderace can deal with entry hazards that Meowscarada is vulnerable to; the former two can also set their own hazards to build up more chip damage for Meowscarada to capitalize on, especially since it can use Knock Off to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from foes like Dragonite, Moltres, and Kyurem. Defensive Pokemon, such as Zapdos, Moltres, and Corviknight, are difficult checks for Meowscarada to get past; having solid specially-offensive teammates to pivot to safely with U-turn, like Kyurem and Raging Bolt, to deal with these checks allows Meowscarada more freedom to keep wallbreaking. Gholdengo can help switch in on faster Pokemon that threaten Meowscarada like Iron Valiant and Zamazenta; Meowscarda can help Gholdengo in turn by threatening foes it struggles with like Ting-Lu and Blissey. The aforementioned Zapdos, Moltres, and Corviknight are great partners as well, as they can check Pokemon like Zamazenta, Kingambit, Lokix, and Choice Scarf Enamorus and bring Meowscarada in safely with their pivot moves; additionally, Corviknight provides hazard removal with Defog, while Moltres and Zapdos threaten Skarmory and opposing Corviknight.
Watchog (XY competitive strategy): Watchog is a horrible Pokemon, as it can only function as a wallbreaker that is heavily outclassed by other Normal-types such as Stoutland and Ursaring due to many of them having higher Speed and more attacking power. This, combined with its mediocre all-around stats, prevents Watchog from being an effective wallbreaker. Watchog's terrible defenses, below-average Speed for a wallbreaker, and need to take a hit for Analytic to take effect makes Watchog easy to to wear down or KO with a strong attack. Return is Watchog's strongest STAB attack. Low Kick hits Steel-types, such as Klang and Probopass, which resist Return. Knock Off is helpful for removing Eviolite from Pokemon like Tangela while also hitting Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus and Gourgeist-XL, which are immune to both Return and Low Kick. Seed Bomb specifically hits Golem and Relicanth, which can otherwise set up on Watchog. 252 EVs in Attack and Speed along with an Adamant nature allow Watchog to deal the most possible damage while outspeeding as many Pokemon as possible. A Jolly nature can be run, however, to outspeed Pokemon such as Stoutland, Articuno, Golduck outside of rain, and Arbok. Life Orb powers up all of Watchog's attacks at the cost of some health. Analytic provides an additional boost to the power of Watchog's attacks if it moves after the foe. Watchog is, first and foremost, a wallbreaker, so it is best used early in the match to deal out heavy damage to the opponent's team, making it easier for its teammates to clean up. Watchog should avoid coming in on strong attacks due to its bad defensive typing and poor bulk. Instead, Watchog should come in after a teammate has fainted or from a slow Volt Switch or U-turn from Pokemon such as Probopass and Lumineon. Keep Watchog away from status conditions, such as burn and poison, as they put a damper on its ability to wallbreak. Watchog appreciates entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Probopass, Roselia, and Stunfisk, as it aids Watchog in netting KOs, including a guaranteed OHKO on Regice after Stealth Rock with Low Kick. Paralysis and Sticky Web support from Pokemon such as Grumpig and Leavanny can help Watchog outspeed faster threats. Flying- and Psychic-types such as Dodrio and Kadabra can eliminate Fighting-types such as Monferno for Watchog. Pokemon that can provide slow pivot support such as Probopass are appreciated to prevent Watchog from taking any damage on the switch in. Setup sweepers such as Ninetales and Simipour appreciate Watchog's ability to wear down foes like Audino. Gunk Shot is an option to hit Grass- and Fairy-types, such as Tangela and Clefairy harder. Hypnosis can put an opposing Pokemon to sleep, but its accuracy is unreliable. Toxic can cripple physical walls such as Gourgeist-XL, while Thunder Wave can slow down faster threats such as Rapidash and Simisage. Super Fang can be used in conjunction with Toxic to quickly wear down bulkier foes, but Watchog doesn't have the moveslot, much less the bulk, to pull this off.
Watchog (SM competitive strategy): Watchog is a poor choice for a Normal-type wallbreaker in the PU metagame, as it is heavily outclassed by Stoutland and Kangaskhan, which possess greater Speed tiers and much more wallbreaking potential. Stoutland and Kangaskhan also have Scrappy to hit opposing Ghost-type Pokemon with their Normal-type moves. On the other hand, Watchog is stuck with Analytic as its best ability, which makes it rely on attacking second; however, with its subpar bulk, it doesn't survive for long. Watchog just attempts to come in and hit as hard as it can, having coverage to hit every Pokemon in the tier for at least neutral damage. Once again, there isn't much reason to use Watchog as an offensive Normal-type Pokemon because it doesn't hit as hard as Kangaskhan and Stoutland, its main competition in the PU metagame, and they are faster and possess more bulk than Watchog.
Volcanion (XY competitive strategy): Volcanion is a powerful wallbreaker in the metagame thanks to its rare and potent Fire / Water typing, high-base 130 Special Attack, and access to the potent Steam Eruption. Its typing gives it valuable resistances to Fairy, Fire, Ice, and Bug, while Water Absorb allows it to check threats like Keldeo, Slowbro, and opposing Volcanion. With powerful dual STAB moves in Steam Eruption and Flamethrower, Volcanion is capable of pressuring bulky cores and punishing switch-ins with burns, and its solid natural bulk lets it pivot into weaker attackers. It can also take a more supportive role with moves like Toxic and Roar. Furthermore, coverage options like Earth Power and Sludge Wave let it hit common answers such as opposing Volcanion, Mega Altaria, and Clefable. However, Volcanion's low Speed leaves it vulnerable to faster offensive threats, and its weakness to Stealth Rock severely limits its ability to switch in repeatedly. It also struggles to break past special walls like Chansey and has no reliable recovery outside of Leftovers or Water Absorb, making long-term survivability an issue without strong team support. Steam Eruption boasts 110 Base Power, solid accuracy, and a 30% burn chance. Common switch-ins such as Slowbro, Rotom-W, and Dragonite do not appreciate a burn and will be reluctant to switch in. Flamethrower is a consistentmove that punishes Steel- and Grass-types like Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Serperior. Earth Power provides good neutral coverage and also hits opposing Volcanion. Sludge Bomb targets Fairy-types like Clefable, Azumarill, and Mega Altaria, giving Volcanion a surprise factor against typical switch-ins, while also providing a possible 30% chance to poison; Hidden Power Grass, Overheat, and Sludge Wave are all good alternatives. Overheat and Sludge Wave over Flamethrower and Sludge Bomb, respectively, provide Volcanion with more immediate damage, while Hidden Power Grass over Sludge Bomb allows Volcanion to nail Water-types such as Gastrodon, Rotom-W, and Slowbro with a super effective hit. Choice Scarf transforms Volcanion from a relatively slow wallbreaker into an unexpected revenge killer, allowing it to outspeed key offensive threats such as Serperior, Mega Metagross, and Thundurus. A Timid nature allows Volcanion to make the most of its role as a fast pivot and cleaner. Full investment in Special Attack maximizes its power to punch through offensive threats. Water Absorb offers utility by letting Volcanion switch into Water-type attacks from Pokemon like Keldeo and Rotom-W, potentially healing off passive damage such as Stealth Rock damage. Use Volcanion as a revenge killer and a surprise fast pivot against threats that normally outspeed it, such as Mega Diancie, Thundurus, and Mega Medicham. Take advantage of its bulk and Water Absorb to switch into predicted Scalds or Hydro Pumps, gaining free momentum and healing chip damage. Use Steam Eruption or Sludge Bomb early to fish for status, which can allow Volcanion to break its checks quicker. Be cautious about locking into the wrong move, however, as Volcanion's coverage is strong but not perfect, since aggressive opponents can exploit it being Choice-lock and its predictability. Be mindful of Stealth Rock and look for opportunities to bring it in safely using VoltTurn support or after a KO. Be sure to note that Volcanion is not faster than Mega Lopunny, Mega Manectric, and Mega Alakazam. Be especially careful versus Mega Alakazam, as it can use Trace to gain an immunity to Steam Eruption to safely switch in. Choice Scarf Volcanion fits well on offensive or bulky offensive teams that need speed control and a Water-immune Pokemon. Entry hazard removal is crucial, so partners such as Zapdos, Excadrill, and Latios are greatly appreciated to clear Stealth Rock, which otherwise limits Volcanion's switch in opportunities. VoltTurn support from Mega Scizor, Landorus-T, or Rotom-W helps bring Volcanion in safely and keep up offensive pressure. Wallbreakers like Mega Medicham and Mega Lopunny take advantage of Volcanion spreading burns and weakening common switch-ins like Slowbro and Clefable. Steam Eruption offers a high Base Power and a 30% burn chance. Flamethrower serves as a reliable Fire-type STAB attack to handle Grass-types such as Ferrothorn, Serperior, and Amoonguss. Toxic allows Volcanion to cripple bulky switch-ins such as Rotom-W, Gastrodon, Slowbro, and Latias. Roar prevents setup sweepers like Clefable and Suicune from becoming problematic while phazing threats and racking up passive damage alongside Toxic and Stealth Rock. Protect is a viable alternative to scout Choice-locked attackers, rack up Leftovers recovery, and gain extra Toxic or burn chip damage. The given EV spread allows Volcanion to survive powerful physical hits such as Mega Medicham's High Jump Kick after Spikes, +2 Life Orb Bisharp's Knock Off from full HP, and two hits from Mega Lopunny's High Jump Kick. The Speed EVs enable it to outrun uninvested base 70s like Skarmory and Assault Vest Bisharp. The rest of the EVs are dumped into Special Defense to provide a buffer against special attackers such as Serperior, Volcarona, and Mega Charizard Y. Water Absorb gives Volcanion a valuable immunity and healing option against Water-types like Keldeo and Rotom-W, making it an effective pivot. Leftovers provides essential passive recovery to offset Volcanion's lack of reliable healing and chip damage from entry hazards. Switch Volcanion into physical attackers such as Mega Scizor, Mega Metagross, and Talonflame. Use Toxic early to wear down common switch-ins, particularly bulky Water- and Dragon-types like Gastrodon and Latios. Roar can prevent setup sweepers like Clefable and Suicune from becoming late-game threats. Be conservative when clicking Steam Eruption, as its burn chance can interfere with Toxic's effectiveness. If Volcanion has Protect, use it to scout Choice item attackers like Keldeo and Scarf Landorus-T, but be aware not to overuse it so much that it becomes a liability. Avoid switching into Knock Off users if possible, as Volcanion relies on Leftovers for longevity. Volcanion fits best on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate a Water-immune teammate with status-spreading potential. Stealth Rock support from Pokemon like Excadrill, Hippowdon, and Landorus-T is crucial to maximize Roar's utility and pressure on opposing teams. Defoggers and spinners like Excadrill, Zapdos, and Latios are valuable teammates to remove Stealth Rock, which limits Volcanion's ability to switch in consistently. Pokemon that appreciate Volcanion's ability to cripple bulky Water-types, such as Mega Lopunny and Mega Metagross, make for strong partners. Finally, teammates that can deal with special wallbreakers like Thundurus, Latios, and Mega Diancie such as Ferrothorn, Amoonguss, and Cresselia help cover Volcanion's weaker special side and secure its defensive role throughout the match. Alongside Flamethrower, Steam Eruption provides great coverage, hitting almost everything except Water- and Dragon-type Pokemon. Hidden Power Grass is crucial for letting Volcanion lure and remove bulky Water-types like Gastrodon, Slowbro, and Rotom-W, which would otherwise wall it. Substitute capitalizes on Volcanion's solid bulk and ability to force switches, letting it block status and create free turns for Leftovers recovery or repeated attacks. This is especially useful against the bulky Water-type Pokemon that usually wall Volcanion, such as Slowbro and Alomomola, which struggle to break its Substitute. Alternatively, Sludge Bomb gives Volcanion strong coverage against Fairy-types like Clefable, Mega Altaria, and Azumarill while spreading poison for extra chip damage. Finally, Toxic can be used with Substitute and over Hidden Power Grass, allowing Volcanion to cripple both Water- and Dragon-type Pokemon but at a slower pace. The EV spread maximizes bulk and power, and the Modest nature lets Volcanion hit as hard as possible. 8 Speed EVs allow Volcanion to outpace base 70 Pokemon with no investment, such as Skarmory and Assault Vest Bisharp. Water Absorb grants key utility by punishing Scald and other Water-type moves while recovering health. The item choice is flexible: Leftovers provides steady recovery and is preferred with Substitute. All the other possible items are preferred without Substitute with Sludge Bomb or a different move instead. Custap Berry can enable a surprise revenge kill when Volcanion is weakened and is preferred on high-paced teams. Mystic Water boosts Steam Eruption's damage for a more offensive role and allows damage similar to Timid Choice Specs Volcanion. Shuca Berry can catch Ground-types like Landorus-T or Garchomp off guard, buying an extra turn in key matchups. Use Volcanion's strong dual STAB moves and great natural bulk to whittle down bulky cores and force favorable trades. Use Substitute to take advantage of switches and force progress without fearing status from the likes of Chansey, Slowbro, and Clefable. Hidden Power Grass is a great tool for punishing typical Water-type switch-ins like Gastrodon, Keldeo, and Rotom-W. If Volcanion is running Sludge Bomb, use it to wear down Fairy-types that would otherwise be safe. If it's using Custap Berry, preserve Volcanion near 25% HP to potentially trade favorably against faster threats or revenge kill a weakened foe. If it's using Shuca Berry, position Volcanion to lure Ground-types in a way that isn't too obvious. Bulky offensive Volcanion fits well on balance and bulky offense teams looking for a strong wallbreaker with decent defensive utility. Teammates that appreciate Volcanion removing or weakening bulky Water-types, like Mega Metagross and Weavile, benefit greatly. Stealth Rock support from Pokemon such as Excadrill, Garchomp, or Landorus-T is important for breaking defensive cores. VoltTurn support from Mega Scizor or Rotom-W helps bring Volcanion in safely. Finally, bulky Ground-types that punish Volt Switch users such as Thundurus, Zapdos, and Rotom-W are greatly appreciated, as they can break Volcanion's Substitute and limit its wallbreaking ability. Steam Eruption can burn physical threats that come in to take advantage of Volcanion's weaker Defense while still providing damage without too much investment in Special Attack. Flamethrower complements it by reliably hitting Steel- and Grass-types such as Ferrothorn, Mega Scizor, and Serperior. Earth Power is an essential good neutral coverage move and hits Water-types such as Volcanion and Keldeo. Sludge Bomb gives important coverage against Fairy-types such as Clefable, Mega Altaria, and Azumarill, as well as potentially spreading poison status. This set allows Volcanion to be a strong tank thanks to its naturally high Defense, good typing, and Assault Vest. The given EV spread allows Volcanion to tank two Psychics from Mega Alakazam after Stealth Rock damage, as well as allowing Volcanion to outspeed most defensive Heatran, Mega Scizor, and uninvested base 70s such as Skarmory. 56 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature guarantee decent damage output, including a high chance to 2HKO physically defensive Clefable with Sludge Bomb. Water Absorb grants Use Volcanion as a sturdy pivot against special attackers and Water-types. Thanks to Assault Vest and Water Absorb, it is an excellent answer to threats like Manaphy, Mega Gardevoir, and Mega Alakazam. Predict the switch-ins and use your coverage options accordingly; use Sludge Bomb for Fairy-types and bulky Water-types, Earth Power as a midground, and Flamethrower for Grass- and Steel-types. Even though it lacks recovery without having Leftovers, play conservatively to preserve its bulk for key switches and be mindful of Stealth Rock chip damage over time. Volcanion fits best on balance and bulky offense teams that need a reliable switch-in to special attackers and Water-types. Entry hazard control is essential; pairing Volcanion with Excadrill, Zapdos, or Latias helps remove Stealth Rock, which otherwise wears it down quickly. Wish, Healing Wish, and Lunar Dance support from Chansey, Clefable, Latias, and Cresselia, respectively, are all fantastic with the bulky Volcanion set. Teammates like Landorus-T, Ferrothorn, and Mega Scizor provide great synergy by handling physical attackers Volcanion may struggle against. Ground-types such as Excadrill and Hippowdon that can cover Volcanion's weakness to Volt Switch are greatly appreciated. Choice Specs is a decent option on Volcanion, although it is a bit slow to take full advantage of it. A Timid nature is preferred with Choice Specs. Fire Blast can be used especially on teams that require more immediate damage than Flamethrower, but Flamethrower is ultimately more consistent. Brick Break is a niche option that can be used if the team is weak to dual screens.
Volcanion (SM competitive strategy): Volcanion makes for an interesting pick in the UU metagame with its unique typing, movepool, and stat distribution enabling a variety of viable sets and approaches. Given its high Special Attack, plethora of coverage options, and signature move Steam Eruption, Volcanion is most commonly used as a Defogger that can punish common entry hazard setters such as Mega Aggron and Hippowdon, and it can also be a strong wallbreaker with Choice Specs. Additionally, its solid defensive typing, overall bulk, and useful ability in Water Absorb allow it to serve as a respectable offensive check to Pokemon like Scizor, Mega Altaria, and Primarina and even let it run bulkier sets featuring Toxic. However, Volcanion has difficulty in dealing with the tier's omnipresent Dragon-types in Latias and Hydreigon. Its middling Speed tier and weaknesses to common attacking types in Rock, Ground, and Electric also open up opportunities for some of the tier's most potent wallbreakers in Terrakion and Nidoking to do big damage and for Pokemon like Mega Manectric and Rotom-C to gain momentum with Volt Switch. Lastly, Volcanion is vulnerable to all entry hazards, most importantly Stealth Rock, hurting its overall longevity and defensive utility if they are not cleared accordingly. Steam Eruption is Volcanion's best Water-type STAB move, coming with high Base Power, reliable accuracy, a good chance to burn Volcanion's target, and most notably the ability to OHKO slower Ground-type Pokemon such as Nidoqueen, Rhyperior, and Mega Steelix after Stealth Rock damage. Flamethrower is chosen over Fire Blast due to its higher accuracy and PP while still retaining the ability to 2HKO Mega Aggron and OHKO Doublade. Sludge Bomb is Volcanion's best option against Fairy-types, notably 2HKOing Mega Altaria and defensive Primarina, which resist Volcanion's STAB moves. It is preferable to Sludge Wave due to the higher poison chance, which helps to punish Pokemon such as Hydreigon, Latias, and Mantine for attempting to switch into Volcanion. 216 Speed EVs allow Volcanion to outspeed maximum Speed Adamant Scizor and OHKO it with Flamethrower before it can hit Volcanion with a +2 Knock Off or Superpower. Maximum Special Attack investment with a Modest nature lets Volcanion hit as hard as possible, allowing it to 2HKO defensive Primarina after Stealth Rock with Sludge Bomb and OHKO Celebi after Stealth Rock with Flamethrower. The remaining EVs are put into HP for additional bulk. Shuca Berry allows Volcanion to lure in faster Ground-types such as Mamoswine, Nidoking, and Krookodile that may attempt to revenge kill it and OHKO them with Steam Eruption. Leftovers is an alternative option that offers Volcanion a form of passive recovery, allowing it to switch into Pokemon such as Scizor and Primarina more reliably. Water Absorb offers Volcanion a way to recover its health, albeit unreliably, when switching in against targets such as Suicune and Primarina. Volcanion may opt to run 188 Speed EVs with a Timid nature to outspeed offensive Mega Altaria and Adamant Bisharp or 252 Speed EVs with a Timid nature to outspeed Adamant Mamoswine, although the loss of power is noticeable, preventing Volcanion from OHKOing Amoonguss after Stealth Rock damage, for example. Due to Volcanion's weakness to Stealth Rock, it should take advantage of its good matchup versus slower entry hazard setters such as Hippowdon, Mega Steelix, Rhyperior, and Nidoqueen and proactively attempt to prevent them from setting Stealth Rock. Due to its respectable bulk and Shuca Berry, it can risk switching in on the former two and forcing them out with the threat of Steam Eruption if it has high enough HP and keeping Stealth Rock off the field is a priority, although it must watch out for Toxic when doing this. Volcanion can also make use of the switches it forces against Pokemon such as Primarina and Scizor to clear entry hazards when facing Stealth Rock setters such as Terrakion, Mew, and Blissey that it cannot beat. If Volcanion is running a Shuca Berry, it can also attempt to lure and take out faster Ground-types such as Krookodile and Mamoswine. Shuca Berry can also be used to allow Volcanion to stay in against Swampert, which is otherwise risky to stay in against due to the high chance that Steam Eruption won't burn it, especially Choice Band sets, which can OHKO Volcanion from full. Due to its lack of reliable recovery, Volcanion should be kept healthy when possible in order to check Pokemon such as Primarina, non-Earthquake Mega Aggron, non-Earthquake Mega Altaria, and Scizor more reliably, especially if the opposing Stealth Rock setter has not yet fainted so it can continue to remove entry hazards. It should also watch out for coverage from these Pokemon, such as Psychic from Choice Specs Primarina and Superpower from Choice Band Scizor, as it leaves Volcanion susceptible to being 2HKOed the next time it comes in, and Primarina can survive one Sludge Bomb to 2HKO Volcanion with Psychic. If you predict a Pokemon such as Calm Mind Latias, Slowbro, or Suicune to switch in and Volcanion does not need to use Defog, it is recommended to either use Sludge Bomb to attempt to poison the opposing Pokemon or double switch to prevent Volcanion being used as setup fodder. Similarly, Volcanion should prioritize double switching when expecting Blissey to switch in to prevent offering it free turns to heal up, pass Wish, or set Stealth Rock. Volcanion should be careful about attempting to switch in against Scald users such as Empoleon, Tentacruel, and Starmie in order to attempt to regain HP due to the threat of either having its item removed by Knock Off or being hit by Toxic, the latter of which severely limits its longevity. However, if Volcanion has already used its Shuca Berry or has a teammate with Heal Bell, it can more freely attempt this and wear these Pokemon down for its teammates. Defog Volcanion fits mainly on bulky offense and balance teams that appreciate a strong offensive entry hazard remover that checks Pokemon such as Primarina and Scizor. Krookodile, Rhyperior, and Hippowdon are excellent Stealth Rock setters to pair with Volcanion, being able to check Pokemon such as Mega Manectric, Rotom-H, and Mega Aerodactyl for it. Krookodile can also shut down common entry hazard setters such as Hippowdon and Mega Steelix with Taunt, taking pressure off of Volcanion to use Defog, while Rhyperior provides a check to Flying-types such as Togekiss and Moltres, and Hippowdon can provide a switch-in to other threats to Volcanion such as Choice Scarf Krookodile while more consistently checking the above Pokemon due to having reliable recovery. In return, Volcanion offers a switch-in to Primarina, which can OHKO all of them. Steel-types such as Mega Steelix, Mega Aggron, and Doublade are great partners, as they can check threats such as Nihilego and Mega Aerodactyl, which can OHKO Volcanion after Stealth Rock damage, as well as Latias and non-Fire Blast Mega Altaria, which can freely set up on Volcanion, provided Mega Altaria has not yet Mega Evolved. Mega Steelix and Mega Aggron can also set up Stealth Rock, while Doublade can check Terrakion. In return, Volcanion can provide a switch-in to Scald users such as Empoleon, Tentacruel, and Primarina while offering a secondary Scizor check. Pursuit trappers such as Choice Scarf Krookodile, Mega Aerodactyl, and Choice Band Scizor can help alleviate some of the problems Latias causes for Volcanion. Krookodile in particular also offers a valuable Electric immunity, which helps to deal with Pokemon such as Mega Manectric and Rotom-H, while Mega Aerodactyl can help check Flying-types such as Togekiss and Moltres. Volcanion appreciates them checking threatening Pokemon such as Mega Aerodactyl and Terrakion and provides a switch-in to Primarina and Scizor in return. Fairy-types such as Sylveon, Florges, and Togekiss are able to check Hydreigon, one of Volcanion's best checks. They can also provide Heal Bell support in order to remove status such as poison and paralysis inflicted by Mega Aggron, Klefki, and Empoleon, allowing Volcanion to remove entry hazards from these setters more readily. Sylveon and Florges can also provide Wish support, alleviating Volcanion's lack of recovery and letting it check Primarina and Scizor more consistently. In return, these Fairy-types greatly appreciate Volcanion removing Steel-types such as Scizor and Doublade, which helps Togekiss in particular to sweep more easily. Mega Altaria can check and set up on Electric-types such as Zeraora and Rotom-H and deal with Calm Mind Suicune, which can set up on Volcanion. It can also help to threaten Pokemon such as Pyukumuku and Blissey, and in return, it appreciates Volcanion's ability to OHKO Scizor and Amoonguss, which can otherwise consistently check Mega Altaria and limit its sweeping potential. Hydreigon and Latias make for good partners for Volcanion, as they can check Ground-types such as Swampert, Nidoking, and, in Hydreigon's case, Krookodile for Volcanion, which can potentially allow Volcanion to forgo running Shuca Berry in favor of Leftovers for extra recovery. Furthermore, Hydreigon can run Taunt to prevent Pokemon such as Swampert, Blissey, and Krookodile from setting entry hazards, which takes pressure off Volcanion, and to help break bulkier teams featuring Pokemon such as Mantine and Pyukumuku. Hydreigon and Latias can also help to deal with Calm Mind Mega Slowbro and Suicune, which can both use Volcanion as setup fodder, and in return, they appreciate Volcanion weakening Fairy- and Steel-types such as Primarina and Mega Steelix. Pivots such as Mienshao and Scizor make for helpful partners to Volcanion. Assault Vest Mienshao in particular can switch into Hydreigon and bring Volcanion into favorable positions against common switch-ins such as Hippowdon, Primarina, Scizor, and Amoonguss. Mega Manectric also pairs well with Volcanion, appreciating it breaking bulky Ground-types such as Hippowdon that would otherwise prevent Mega Manectric from pivoting with Volt Switch, and in return, it can pressure bulky Water-types such as Suicune and Mega Slowbro that wall Volcanion while taking some pressure off Volcanion to check Scizor. Steam Eruption serves as Volcanion's Water-type STAB move, possessing high Base Power, solid accuracy, and a decent chance to cripple foes with burns. Fire Blast is generally Volcanion's preferred Fire-type STAB move, featuring great damage output at the cost of fairly unreliable accuracy. Flamethrower is safer, more reliable option with more PP and perfect accuracy, but it is hard to justify over Fire Blast's raw power. Earth Power offers nice coverage alongside Volcanion's STAB moves, notably netting the OHKO on opposing Volcanion while threatening Tentacruel and Empoleon more than other options. Alternatively, Hidden Power Electric punishes other Water-types like Mantine, Mega Slowbro, and Alomomola, though due to its low damage output, it can be poor to lock into. Sludge Bomb hits Fairy-types like Mega Altaria and Primarina super effectively and possesses a decent chance to cripple common switch-ins such Latias and Hydreigon with poison. Sludge Wave is a slightly more powerful option, providing a better chance to OHKO Primarina, but the extra poison chance usually makes Sludge Bomb the superior move. 252 Special Attack EVs in combination with Choice Specs let Volcanion hit as hard as possible at the cost of locking into a move. Maximum Speed investment allows Volcanion to outrun most of the tier's bulky Pokemon as well as threats like Scizor and Crawdaunt. A Modest nature offers even more damage output and gets better rolls on Pokemon like Primarina, while a Timid nature lets Volcanion at least Speed tie with other base 70 Speed Pokemon, most notably opposing Volcanion and neutral Speed-natured Mamoswine. Water Absorb is the only available ability, giving Volcanion an immunity to Water-type attacks. Volcanion is best used as a wallbreaker early on, throwing out powerful attacks to break down the opposing team. Steam Eruption is Volcanion's most spammable move given its high Base Power coupled with the ability to cripple its switch-ins with burns. Ideally, Volcanion is brought in safely through the use of double switches or U-turn and Volt Switch, though it is bulky enough to stomach hits if need be. However, switching directly into attacks in tandem with its vulnerability to all entry hazards tends to wear down Volcanion quickly, so be wary if it is needed to offensively check threats like Primarina and Scizor later on in the match. Clear entry hazards, most specifically Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes, with teammates when given the opportunity, since they can severely hinder Volcanion's longevity and opportunities to come in and effectively perform its role. Only lock into coverage moves when completely necessary, as they can often be taken advantage of by foes. Choice Specs Volcanion fits best on bulky offense and balance teams that make use of its wallbreaking prowess and solid defensive utility. With its most common answer being Latias, Pursuit is a valuable tool alongside Volcanion, making Pokemon like Mega Aerodactyl, Alolan Muk, and Choice Scarf Krookodile effective partners. Volt Switch and U-turn users like Rotom-C, Scizor, and Mega Pidgeot provide solid avenues of getting Volcanion into favorable positions safely. Scizor can also offer Pursuit support with its Choice Band set while Rotom-C can remove entry hazards and threaten bulky Water-types. Volcanion is easily taken advantage of by Dragon-types like Latias and Hydreigon, meaning switch-ins like Silvally-Steel, Sylveon, and Mega Altaria make for valuable teammates. Similarly to Rotom-C, Silvally-Steel and Mega Altaria are also able to remove entry hazards for Volcanion with Defog. Sylveon can keep Volcanion healthy with its Wish support. Fighting-types and other powerful physical attackers such as Terrakion, Cobalion, and the aforementioned Scizor are necessary to break through Volcanion's most sturdy answer in Blissey. Dragon-types like Latias and Hydreigon cover Volcanion's weaknesses to Ground- and Electric-type attacks, while appreciating its ability to punish opposing Steel- and Fairy-types. Stealth Rock setters such as Mega Aggron, Celebi, and Nihilego aid Volcanion in its wallbreaking efforts, further pressuring the switches it forces. Steam Eruption is Volcanion's best Water-type STAB move, featuring high Base Power and a chance to burn foes. Flamethrower is the preferred option on a bulkier set like this given its perfect accuracy, respectable damage output, and high PP. Toxic cripples common switch-ins to Volcanion like Latias, Hydreigon, and Slowbro, making them easier to deal with as the match progresses. Protect racks up damage on badly poisoned foes, also scouting the move common Choice item users such as Hydreigon and Krookodile lock into. Substitute serves a similar purpose to Protect, chipping foes in tandem with Toxic, while also taking advantage of Empoleon and Toxic targets like Mantine and Slowbro. Maximum HP investment improves Volcanion's overall bulk, letting it serve as a better check to Scizor and preventing Slowbro's unboosted Psyshock from breaking its Substitute. 216 Speed EVs allow Volcanion to outpace maximum Speed Adamant Scizor and singe it with Flamethrower before it can get off an attack. The remaining EVs are dumped into Special Attack with a Modest nature in order to maximize Volcanion's offensive presence. Leftovers provides Volcanion with passive recovery, pairing nicely with Protect and Substitute. Water Absorb is the only usable ability, presenting Volcanion with an appreciated immunity to Water-type attacks. Use Volcanion early-game to spread Toxic poison and cripple its long-term answers like Latias, Hydreigon, and Seismitoad. This can be an especially easy task given that many opponents will usually assume Volcanion to be running Choice Specs if it has yet to reveal Leftovers, meaning the aforementioned Pokemon are likely to switch in initially. When facing common Choice item users like Hydreigon and Krookodile, utilize Protect to scout their move and react accordingly. If running Substitute, use it in the face of Pokemon like Scizor, Doublade, and Mega Aggron that are commonly threatened out by Volcanion, or simply against foes such as Empoleon and Mantine that are unable to break it. While weak to all entry hazards, this Volcanion set is especially weak to Toxic Spikes, making their removal a top priority if Volcanion is to function as intended. Keep Volcanion healthy if it is needed to handle a threatening foe like Scizor, Wish passing to it if need be. Poison essentially neuters Volcanion's effectiveness by ruining its longevity, meaning it is best to avoid switching into potential Toxic users like Empoleon or making it necessary for a teammate to use Heal Bell if it is to occur. Toxic Volcanion is a strong pick for balance teams as a means of spreading status and checking Scizor. Fairy-types like Sylveon, Togekiss, and Mega Altaria are great partners, checking Dragon-types, providing Heal Bell support, and Wish passing in the case of Sylveon. Hydreigon and Latias cover some of Volcanion's main weaknesses and take advantage of its ability to threaten Steel-types and cripple bulky Water-types with Toxic. Rotom-C and all the aforementioned Dragon-types can remove entry hazards with Defog, making Volcanion much more efficient in accomplishing its role on a team. Choice Scarf Krookodile shares nice type synergy with Volcanion and can pick off opposing Latias weakened by Volcanion with Pursuit. Similarly, grounded Poison-types like Nihilego, Amoonguss, and Nidoking remove the Toxic Spikes that Volcanion hates upon their entry. Nihilego appreciates Volcanion checking Scizor, while Nidoking can help wear down Volcanion hardest counter in Blissey with either Taunt or Superpower. Choice Scarf is a decent option, as it helps to mitigate Volcanion's low Speed stat, but its damage output is unimpressive and it remains outsped by fast foes such as Mega Aerodactyl and Mega Manectric. Grassium Z alongside Solar Beam allows Volcanion to surprise Water-types like Seismitoad and Slowbro, but it is often much less useful than other, more consistent sets, and Toxic wears down Bloom Doom's main targets anyway. A mixed set featuring Fightinium Z and Superpower lets Volcanion punish some of its hardest answers in Blissey, Snorlax, and Hydreigon, but it is hard to justify over other options given its uselessness in matchups lacking these targets.
Volcanion (SS competitive strategy): Volcanion is a prominent wallbreaker that demands very specific checks, since it can exploit positive type matchups versus Landorus-T, Heatran, and Ferrothorn while being able to use its raw power to beat Clefable and specially defensive Garchomp. Volcanion also has beneficial defensive traits, as its solid natural bulk, great typing, and access to Water Absorb all let it take hits and gain opportunities to show its offensive power. Steam Eruption makes any physical attacker petrified of switching in on it, as they don't want to be inflicted with a burn; it can also burn Galarian Slowking and Toxapex, which are immune to poison damage. Volcanion's decent coverage in Earth Power and Sludge Wave helps it fix its problems, hitting would-be switch-ins like Toxapex and Tapu Fini, respectively. However, Volcanion has its fair share of its weaknesses, as it is quite susceptible to being revenge killed by the likes of Tapu Koko, Garchomp, and Landorus-T in addition to having a massive weakness to Stealth Rock. Thanks to its high Special Attack, solid coverage in Earth Power and Sludge Wave, and access to the powerful Steam Eruption, Volcanion functions as a hard-hitting wallbreaker that is difficult to switch into. Steam Eruption, in addition to being a STAB move, has a decent chance of inflicting burn, threatening would-be switch-ins like Dragonite and Dragapult. Earth Power hits Pokemon like Toxapex, Galarian Slowking, and opposing Volcanion. Sludge Wave hits Tapu Fini and Clefable and should always be the fourth move on Choice Specs sets. For Heavy-Duty Boots sets, Toxic wears down common switch-ins like Dragonite, Gastrodon, and Slowbro, while Substitute alternatively lets Volcanion take advantage of Ferrothorn, Landorus-T, and Heatran when they switch out. Choice Specs lets Volcanion unload massive damage, giving it a chance to OHKO Tornadus-T and offensive Garchomp; however, Heavy-Duty Boots is a solid alternative, as Stealth Rock is a major weakness for Volcanion. A Modest nature lets Volcanion deal more damage, giving it a much higher chance to OHKO offensive Garchomp and Clefable, whereas a Timid nature lets it outspeed Pokemon like Magnezone and Adamant Choice Band Buzzwole while providing Volcanion a chance to outspeed opposing Volcanion. Water Absorb, while being the only ability Volcanion can choose, is solid, since it lets Volcanion switch in on Barraskewda and Urshifu-R Choice-locked into a Water-type move. Volcanion functions best on offense and balance teams. Weavile is a great partner, as it threatens Pokemon like Dragonite and Dragapult; in return, Volcanion takes care of Ferrothorn, Clefable, and Melmetal. Landorus-T is another good teammate, since it can set Stealth Rock or provide Defog support, which greatly helps Volcanion due to its Stealth Rock weakness. Landorus-T can also pivot it in thanks to U-turn. Zapdos is another option for a potential Defogger, threatens Water-types, and can bring Volcanion in safely with Volt Switch; in return, Volcanion threatens Heatran and Ferrothorn. Tornadus-T is another potential Defogger that can also spread Knock Off and bring Volcanion in with U-turn. Volcanion can support Tornadus-T by threatening Heatran and Melmetal, two Pokemon that it can't do much against. Kartana is a great offensive partner that can threaten some of Volcanion's best checks, namely Gastrodon, Slowbro, and Rotom-W; Volcanion can take care of Landorus-T and Ferrothorn in return. Ferrothorn provides some entry hazard support in Spikes, which are quite helpful for Volcanion, as it just barely misses out on OHKOing Garchomp without any hazards set up. Volcanion can use Sludge Bomb over Sludge Wave for the higher chance of a poison, but the higher power of Sludge Wave is generally preferred in addition to it preferring to burn the foe with Steam Eruption. Volcanion can also use Defog on Heavy-Duty Boots sets to remove entry hazards itself, though it usually either prefers Sludge Wave, Toxic, or Substitute, and there are many other Defoggers that fit on its team.
Volcanion (SV competitive strategy): Choice Specs Volcanion acts as a deadly wallbreaker that can hit common defensive Pokemon like Ting-Lu and Heatran for super effective damage while also crippling Pokemon such as Dragonite and Dragapult that could otherwise take an attack with a nasty burn from Steam Eruption. Sludge Bomb allows Volcanion to 2HKO Primarina and even OHKO Ogerpon-W, as well as hitting Pokemon such as Assault Vest Alomomola and Latios that might otherwise check it. Earth Power slams Raging Bolt and Toxapex that could otherwise tank Volcanion's attacks easily. Tera Blast Fairy can be used over Earth Power to make sure Dragon-types such as Dragonite, Kyurem, and Latios cannot reliably switch into Volcanion, while the required Tera Fairy gives it a valuable Fighting- and Dark-type resistance to help it take a hit from Pokemon such as Zamazenta, Kingambit, and Darkrai. Additionally, Tera Fairy allows Volcanion to be completely immune to Walking Wake's STAB moves, forcing it to rely on weaker Fire-type attacks to hit Volcanion. Tera Water gives Steam Eruption a massive boost in power, allowing Volcanion to 2HKO Assault Vest Galarian Slowking, Kyurem, and Raging Bolt, while Tera Ground gives Volcanion an Electric immunity to take on Pokemon such as Zapdos and Raging Bolt more easily. This also gives it a chance to OHKO Galarian Slowking after Stealth Rock with Earth Power. A maximum HP spread with minimum Speed and a Quiet nature can be used on Trick Room teams to give Volcanion the ability to outspeed a large majority of the metagame under Trick Room. Choice Specs Volcanion fits best on bulky offense and balance teams, which heavily appreciate its ability to check Pokemon such as Primarina and Ogerpon-W while also helping it get in consistently against a variety of threats. Volcanion suffers from a crippling weakness to Stealth Rock when using Choice Specs; therefore, entry hazard removal options such as Hatterene, Galarian Weezing, Corviknight, Great Tusk, and Iron Treads are great partners for it. While Volcanion can certainly hit common Dragon-types such as Dragonite and Raging Bolt hard, they can typically stomach the attack and hit it back for massive damage. Therefore, Pokemon such as Hatterene, Landorus-T, and Ting-Lu that can check the aforementioned Dragon-types are heavily appreciated by Volcanion, while in return, Volcanion can check Pokemon such as Cinderace and Corviknight. Revenge killers such as Iron Valiant, Deoxys-S, and Dragonite pair nicely with Volcanion, as they can either outspeed or in the case of the latter, use priority moves against common threats to Volcanion such as Ogerpon-W and Enamorus; in return, Volcanion can help chip down bulkier foes such as Galarian Slowking and Zamazenta that they can struggle against. Pivot Pokemon such as Zapdos, Dragapult, and Tornadus-T are great for Volcanion, as they can help get it in safely against threats such as Tyranitar and Ting-Lu, while in return, Volcanion can threaten common answers to the Pokemon mentioned above such as Kingambit and Enamorus. Hazard setters such as Deoxys-S and Landorus-T are useful partners for Volcanion, as they can help it pressure switch-ins such as Assault Vest Alomomola and Galarian Slowking, deny hazards with Taunt, and set up dual screens and pivot out to it, respectively. Ground-type Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Iron Treads, and Great Tusk are immensely threatening to Volcanion, as while they cannot directly switch into it, they can outspeed and do massive damage to it as well as set up Stealth Rock. Therefore, Pokemon such as Corviknight, Zamazenta, and Rillaboom can be great partners for Volcanion by answering each of these Ground-types, respectively. Rillaboom, in particular, is a great partner, as not only can it easily pivot to Volcanion, but its Grassy Terrain can provide passive healing to Volcanion while also reducing the power of Earthquake. If Volcanion is run on a Trick Room team, then partners such as Cresselia, Mimikyu, and Hatterene are great for not only setting up Trick Room, but then getting it in safely. Hatterene, in particular, is a great partner, as it is able to keep off Stealth Rock, which otherwise cuts into Volcanion's bulk. Fellow Trick Room attackers such as Ursaluna, Kingambit, and Enamorus-T are also valued, as they overwhelm teams with their sheer power. Volcanion brings a niche as a strong bulky attacker that can reliably switch into foes like Primarina and Alomomola with its Water Absorb ability, spreading burns through its powerful Steam Eruption. Sludge Bomb is used to hit targets like Primarina and Ogerpon-W for super effective damage while spreading poison onto checks like Alomomola and Dragapult. Taunt lets Volcanion prevent setup opportunities from Pokemon like Primarina while also preventing status moves such as Galarian Slowking's Chilly Reception and Alomomola's Wish; Taunt notably irritates walls like Blissey and Toxapex. Will-O-Wisp, meanwhile, actively cripples physical attackers like Ogerpon-W, Zamazenta, and Dragonite. It pairs especially well with Steam Eruption, as usual Will-O-Wisp absorbers like Moltres, Heatran, and Gliscor cannot switch into Volcanion safely. Fire Spin is an alternative move over Flamethrower that can be used in combination with Taunt to trap foes like Blissey and Alomomola to stallbreak incredibly well. Earth Power can also be used to hit Raging Bolt and Galarian Slowking. Heavy-Duty Boots lets Volcanion reliably switch in on foes like Ogerpon-W and Primarina without dealing with entry hazard chip damage. Roar can be used to phaze attackers such as Kingambit, Iron Valiant, and Primarina. On teams with solid hazard control, Leftovers and Shuca Berry can be used. The former is able to passively heal to better leverage Volcanion's fantastic natural bulk, while the latter lets it tank a Ground-type attack from Dragonite, Great Tusk, and Enamorus and fire back with an attack or Will-O-Wisp. Custap Berry is an alternative option that is able to leverage Volcanion's trading ability to take out revenge killers like Great Tusk and Iron Moth. Maximum Special Attack and Speed lets Volcanion get the jump on Gliscor, Moltres, and Tyranitar, giving it opportunities to deal heavy damage. However, a bulkier spread that can let Volcanion outspeed Adamant Kingambit can be used, allowing it to be able to survive uninvested Great Tusk's Headlong Rush and offensive Landorus-T's Earthquake while becoming a better check to Primarina, Iron Valiant, and Cinderace. 112 Defense EVs can be used alongside maximum HP to let Volcanion survive maximum Attack Great Tusk's Headlong Rush. Tera Ghost lets Volcanion spinblock against Great Tusk and Iron Treads, check Zamazenta, and be immune to Blissey's Seismic Toss on Fire Spin sets. Tera Fairy gives Volcanion an improved matchup against Fighting- and Dragon-types like Iron Valiant, Zamazenta, and Dragapult while being a better neutral defensive typing and, notably, becoming immune to both of Walking Wake's STAB moves. Volcanion slots in nicely on offensive teams, as it can take advantage of its defensive qualities to fire off intense damage. Volcanion enjoys entry hazard setters like Hisuian Samurott, Landorus-T, and Ting-Lu as teammates, as they can shore up its lack of boosting item, with Flamethrower being able to OHKO bulky Kingambit after a single layer of Spikes or Stealth Rock. Landorus-T and Ting-Lu protect Volcanion from Zapdos and Raging Bolt while also sponging physical and special attackers, respectively. Landorus-T can switch into Great Tusk and Iron Treads, while Ting-Lu switches in on Dragapult. In return, Volcanion helps both handle Weavile and Hatterene. Volcanion without Heavy-Duty Boots struggles against hazards, making Hatterene, Great Tusk, and Iron Treads desirable as teammates. Great Tusk and Iron Treads can also set hazards and check Raging Bolt, while Hatterene can paralyze foes like Enamorus with Nuzzle; in return, Volcanion scares Corviknight out. Fast teammates like Deoxys-S and Calm Mind Iron Valiant make up for Volcanion's poor Speed, scaring out faster threats like Tornadus-T and Stone Edge Zamazenta. Volcanion, in return, wears down shared checks like Galarian Slowking and Garganacl. Similarly, other special attackers like Darkrai, Gholdengo, and Pecharunt appreciate Volcanion beating down their checks like Ting-Lu and Assault Vest Hisuian Samurott. Fairy-types like the aforementioned Iron Valiant and Enamorus are excellent teammates for their ability to get rid of Dragapult and Dragonite. Steel-types like Air Balloon Gholdengo, Kingambit, and Iron Crown assist Volcanion against Kyurem. Kingambit, notably, aides against Ghost-types like Dragapult and Pecharunt, provides a strong Sucker Punch for threats like Deoxys-S, and gets rid of Galarian Slowking. In return, Volcanion targets annoyances to Kingambit such as Corviknight, Ting-Lu, and Cinderace.
Corviknight (SS competitive strategy): Corviknight is an amazing Defogger and defensive pivot thanks to its stellar defensive typing, solid movepool, and great bulk. With these traits, Corviknight finds itself being ran to check a myriad of offensive threats in the metagame like Garchomp, Weavile, Rillaboom, and Tapu Lele. Unlike other Flying-types like Tornadus-T and Zapdos, its typing gives it a neutrality to Stealth Rock, allowing it to function without Heavy-Duty Boots and instead run items like Leftovers or Rocky Helmet. Its ability Pressure is what sets it apart from other Defoggers, stalling out opposing entry hazard setters so hazards are more likely to stay off the field the longer a game goes on. Corviknight can also function as a defensive sweeper, with its combination of Iron Defense and Body Press letting it boost against physical sweepers like Garchomp and Weavile and then beat them afterward. One major downside of Corviknight is that it can't slot in all the coverage it wants on one set, which means it often falls short in checking everything it wants to. Without Brave Bird, Rillaboom and Volcarona are free to set up on it, and without Body Press, Steel-types like Heatran and Melmetal are given endless switch-in opportunities. Corviknight also suffers from general passivity into numerous metagame threats like Zapdos, Garchomp, and Volcanion, letting it get taken advantage of and making it a worse pick compared to other Defoggers. Defog Corviknight functions as a bulky entry hazard remover that can Defog in front of common hazard setters such as Landorus-T and Clefable thanks to its mixed bulk and amazing typing. Body Press is Corviknight's main way of hitting opposing Steel-types that would otherwise wall it like Ferrothorn, Melmetal, and Heatran. Brave Bird is a viable alternative to hit Ghost-types like Dragapult and Blacephalon so they can't come in for free, prevents Volcarona from coming in and threatening Corviknight with its Fire-type STAB moves, and lets it more easily beat Rillaboom and Buzzwole. U-turn lets Corviknight pivot out of bad matchups and generate momentum. Leftovers gives Corviknight passive recovery, increasing its longevity and making it easier for it to check multiple threats easier throughout the course of a game. Rocky Helmet is an option that allows Corviknight to punish contact attackers like Kartana and Melmetal as well as U-turn spam from the likes of opposing Corviknight, Rillaboom, and Landorus-T. The shown EV spread gives Corviknight enough special bulk to live 2 Shadow Balls from Modest Choice Specs Dragapult after Leftovers recovery, with the remainder of the EVs being put into physical bulk to live two Crunches from Choice Band Tyranitar. If running Rocky Helmet, a spread running maximum Defense is recommended to better live and punish physical attacks. Corviknight is best used as a defensive pivot and Defogger on a wide variety of teams ranging from bulky offense to stall. Electric-types like Tapu Koko and Zeraora greatly appreciate Corviknight's typing that allows it to check Ground-types like Landorus-T and Garchomp. Hippowdon and Gastrodon form a great core with Corviknight on fat and stall teams, since they are able to switch into Electric-type attacks from the aforementioned Pokemon, with Corviknight checking Grass-types like Rillaboom and Kartana for them. They're also able to take on Heatran, a Stealth Rock setter that is reliably able to beat Corviknight. Specially bulky Water-types like Gastrodon, Shed Shell Toxapex, and Slowking are able to switch into and check Fire-types Corviknight struggles with like Heatran and Volcarona, and Corviknight is able to check strong physical attackers they struggle with like Garchomp, Weavile, and Melmetal for them. Hazard-weak wallbreakers like Blacephalon and Arctozolt love pairing with Corviknight, since it has great matchups into a majority of hazard setters, so it can reliably keep hazards off the field and give them more room to come in. These wallbreakers, among others like Urshifu-R and Rillaboom, also love Corviknight's slow U-turn to bring them in safely. Pokemon that are highly dependent on their item like Volcarona and Dragapult appreciate Corviknight's ability to absorb Knock Off from Pokemon like Weavile and Ferrothorn, since it isn't as dependent on its item to function. Dragon-types like Dragonite and Dragapult appreciate Corviknight's ability to check Weavile, as it is one of the few feasible checks to it even after a Swords Dance boost. Weavile itself is a great partner for Corviknight, being able to check and revenge kill Dragapult while Corviknight can pivot and keep hazards off the field, ensuring Weavile gets on the field safely even after its Heavy-Duty Boots have been removed. Iron Defense Corviknight is a stalwart physical wall that often shows up on stall teams requiring a dedicated check to physical attackers such as Kartana, Melmetal, and Rillaboom while also removing entry hazards effectively with the combination of Defog and Pressure. Maximum investment in physical bulk is preferred to let Corviknight handle the threats it is supposed to check and will allow it in some sparse scenarios to sweep with boosted Body Press. The choice between Leftovers and Shed Shell will come down to how pressured Corviknight will be to getting trapped by Magnezone. If Corviknight is the team's primary Defogger and check to the aforementioned physical attackers, it should often run Shed Shell. Iron Defense Corviknight is a good physical wall, but it still has to be supported by teammates that can come in and check threats that Corviknight can't handle. Unaware walls like Quagsire and Clefable pair well with Corviknight, since they will check Pokemon that Corviknight can't reasonably handle like Swords Dance Garchomp with Fire Fang, Dragon Dance Dragapult, and Swords Dance Weavile. Corviknight also pairs well with Toxapex, since Toxapex can come in and check physical attackers like Choice Band Urshifu-R and Barraskewda, which otherwise have good odds to 2HKO Corviknight. Physical tanks such as Buzzwole also support Corviknight, as they check stallbreakers such as Bisharp and Choice Band Tyranitar that can threaten to break through Corviknight. Iron Defense Corviknight is also threatened by strong special attackers like Blacephalon, Dragapult, and Volcanion, so a good partner can be found in Blissey, which can effortlessly wall these attackers, allowing Corviknight to keep up its walling capability. Corviknight has a propensity to let in Magma Storm Heatran that can threaten to trap and KO it, so specially defensive Ground-types like Hippowdon, Gastrodon, and Garchomp make good partners to it, as they can tank Heatran's attacks and force it out. These Ground-types also check Electric-types like Tapu Koko and Zapdos, which Corviknight is otherwise threatened by. Shed Shell can be ran on the Defog set to avoid being trapped by Magnezone, but this is a fringe pick, since Leftovers and Rocky Helmet are consistently better options against teams lacking a Magnezone, and Corviknight can U-turn out on a predicted switch-in. A Bulk Up set with Special Defense investment running Bulk Up, Substitute, Roost, and Brave Bird is a niche pick ran on hyper offense teams to sweep through bulkier teams that are passive against it, since some hyper offense teams struggle with much fatter teams that can deal with the hard-hitting attacks they employ. Power Trip is an option over Substitute to break through defensive teams more quickly, though without Substitute, it's more prone to chip damage, paralysis, and burn from defensive Pokemon like Ferrothorn, Clefable, and Toxapex.
Miraidon (SV competitive strategy): Thanks to Miraidon's outstanding power cementing it as one of the most potent wallbreakers in the metagame, it is a staple on balance and bulky offense, and every team needs to have effective counterplay for it. U-turn makes Miraidon an amazing pivot, allowing it to safely bring in teammates such as Koraidon and Calyrex-S. However, due to the prevalence of the Ground-types Ting-Lu and Arceus-Ground, which can force Miraidon out one-on-one, it has a tough time safely coming in and wallbreaking. Additionally, Calyrex-S and Choice Scarf Koraidon can revenge kill Miraidon. Keeping this in mind, Miraidon really appreciates teammates such as Ho-Oh and Ting-Lu that are able to check Ting-Lu, Arceus-Ground, and offensive wallbreakers such as Koraidon and Calyrex-S. Miraidon's raw natural power backed by Hadron Engine and access to U-turn make it one of the best pivots for balance and bulky offense teams. Heavy-Duty Boots greatly increases Miraidon's longevity by letting it come in multiple times without any consequences from entry hazards while also improving its matchup against Sticky Web. Taunt helps prevent Ting-Lu from using Spikes, Arceus formes and Clodsire from using Recover, and foes such as Arceus and Necrozma-DM from setting up. Calm Mind allows Miraidon to OHKO Necrozma-DM after a single boost and brute force its way through its checks, 2HKOing Ting-Lu and OHKOing Arceus-Ground at +1 after entry hazard damage. Solar Beam is an alternative option that allows Miraidon to 2HKO Ting-Lu and OHKO Arceus-Ground after some minor chip damage, although it requires sun to be up for Miraidon to be able to use it with ease. Tera Fairy gives Miraidon an immunity to Dragon-type moves from Koraidon, Eternatus, and opposing Miraidon, albeit at the cost of making it weak to Necrozma-DM's Sunsteel Strike and removing its resistance to Ho-Oh's STAB moves. Tera Dragon boosts Miraidon's Draco Meteor to absolutely insane levels, allowing it to 2HKO Ting-Lu at +1 and OHKO Arceus-Ground. Tera Ghost grants Miraidon an immunity to Koraidon's Low Kick and Arceus's Extreme Speed, although it makes Miraidon weak to Calyrex-S's Astral Barrage. Miraidon is primarily used on balance and bulky offense teams that benefit from its wallbreaking and pivoting capabilities. Miraidon struggles with revenge killers such as Koraidon and Calyrex-S, so it likes checks to them such as Ho-Oh and defensive Arceus formes for the former and Ting-Lu for the latter. Miraidon appreciates being paired with Choice Scarf Koraidon, as they can pivot each other in and complement each other really well, with Koraidon being able to pressure Ting-Lu and Arceus-Ground and Miraidon helping against Ho-Oh and Arceus-Water. Miraidon also appreciates special attackers such as Calyrex-S and Arceus-Ground that can pressure and eventually break through Ting-Lu. Lastly, Miraidon greatly benefits from Ting-Lu setting entry hazards to let it effectively break through foes and being a fabulous check to Calyrex-S and Arceus-Ground, which Miraidon struggles with. Choice Specs trades Miraidon's longevity for becoming an even more threatening wallbreaker. It allows Miraidon to OHKO defensive Arceus formes after a layer of Spikes with either Draco Meteor or Electro Drift and 2HKO Clodsire with Draco Meteor. Overheat OHKOes Iron Treads, as well as threatens Tera Grass Blissey and Ho-Oh. Overheat also allows for a midground click to circumvent predicting a switch to a Ground- or Fairy-type, dealing significant damage to Ting-Lu and being favored to OHKO defensive Arceus-Fairy in the omnipresent sun after a layer of Spikes. U-turn allows Miraidon to maintain momentum without having to risk getting a prediction wrong. Volt Switch, on the other hand, can be used as a stronger pivoting option once checks like Ting-Lu have been KOed or significantly chipped, or to keep up offensive pressure against Blissey. A Modest nature increases Miraidon's damage output even further, allowing Draco Meteor to more reliably 2HKO Ting-Lu after a layer of Spikes, while Timid allows Miraidon to outspeed offensive Arceus-Ground and Arceus-Fairy and tie opposing Miraidon and Koraidon. Tera Fire can be used to break past Tera Grass walls even without Koraidon's sun, notably securing an OHKO on Tera Grass Ho-Oh and 2HKOing Tera Grass Blissey. It can also be used defensively in a pinch, allowing Miraidon to resist Fairy-type attacks like Zacian-C's Play Rough and Arceus-Fairy's Judgment. Alternatively, Tera Dragon boosts Miraidon's Draco Meteor to incredible levels, 2HKOing specially defensive Ho-Oh and Ting-Lu and OHKOing Clodsire with minimal chip. Choice Specs Miraidon is used primarily on bulky offense and balance playstyles, which appreciate its incredible wallbreaking power. Other special attackers such as Calyrex-S, Calm Mind Arceus-Fairy, and Kyogre greatly appreciate Choice Specs Miraidon to help overwhelm and break walls like Ting-Lu, Blissey, Clodsire, and specially defensive Ho-Oh. Without Heavy-Duty Boots, Miraidon gets chipped by hazards quickly; therefore, Hatterene makes a great teammate, preventing hazards from being set with Magic Bounce and pivoting it in safely with Baton Pass. Hatterene can also Nuzzle threatening Pokemon and set up Calm Mind to pass boosts to Miraidon with Baton Pass, making it easier to wallbreak. Since Miraidon is choice-locked, it is very easily revenge killed and can be used as setup fodder after locking into a move. Therefore, it requires a defensive backbone for setup sweepers such as Zacian-C, Arceus-Ground, and Koraidon. Similarly, Calyrex-S outspeeds and 2HKOes Miraidon, threatening to snowball out of control. Revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Koraidon and Calyrex-S are hence appreciated to take care of faster threats. Koraidon in particular forms a strong offensive core, with it luring in physical walls such as Arceus formes, Ho-Oh, and Landorus-T for Miraidon to take advantage of. On the other hand, Koraidon scares out special walls such as Ting-Lu, Blissey, and Clodsire while also setting up sun to power up Overheat. Walls such as Ho-Oh, Arceus-Fairy, and Ting-Lu allow Miraidon to reliably fall back after claiming a KO. Ting-Lu provides Spikes support to chip opposing Pokemon into KO range, along with checking Arceus-Ground and Calyrex-S. Landorus-T is also a good partner, being able to switch into Koraidon, Dragon Dance Arceus-Ground, and Zacian-C, and slow pivot back into Miraidon with U-turn. Life Orb Miraidon is a potent setup sweeper, leveraging its great power to unleash incredible damage. Agility allows Miraidon to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame. Electro Drift hits most of the tier neutrally and notably OHKOes Zacian-C, Calyrex-S, and Ho-Oh, as well as OHKOing Arceus formes after two layers of Spikes. Solar Beam gives Miraidon a way of hitting Ting-Lu super effectively, though it is hindered by requiring Koraidon's sun. Dragon Pulse hits all Dragon-types in the tier for super effective damage while giving an alternative to chip Ting-Lu. However, due to Miraidon's poor longevity because of Life Orb recoil damage and a vulnerability to entry hazard damage, it can't afford to switch in frequently early in the game. Additionally, an opponent could predict Miraidon's moves and constantly switch to a resisted Pokemon to stall out Electric Terrain. Tera Grass ensures an OHKO on Ting-Lu with Solar Beam after minor chip damage and ensures Miraidon's safe setup against foes such as Eternatus, Miraidon, and Ting-Lu if it doesn't use Whirlwind. Miraidon's EV spread allows it to outspeed the fastest unboosted Pokemon in the tier, Choice Scarf Calyrex-S, after using Agility. Agility Miraidon is primarily used on two types of teams—hyper offense and bulky offense—as a late-game sweeper once other attackers wear down its checks. On bulky offense, it also has a surprise factor, since an offensive pivot set is much more common on such teams, and an unexpected Agility can quickly turn the tide of a game. However, due to Miraidon's issues with longevity and weakness to entry hazard damage, bulky offense teams using it often run Pokemon such as Magic Bounce Hatterene to stave off hazards or powerful attackers like Choice Specs Kyogre to apply pressure on opposing hazard setters. Miraidon lures in and does great damage to Ting-Lu, one of Calyrex-S's best checks, helping enable a Nasty Plot sweep. Agility Miraidon also lures in Arceus-Ground, which takes a great deal of damage from Solar Beam, and opens up Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Koraidon, which no longer has to worry about Dragon Dance Arceus-Ground using Tera Fairy to set up on it. Similarly, Miraidon's ability to significantly chip Arceus-Fairy when combined with entry hazards helps Koraidon overwhelm and KO it. Miraidon struggles with Ting-Lu before Terastallizing due to the latter's great natural bulk and Electric immunity, and Choice Scarf Koraidon's Outrage threatens to OHKO Miraidon before it uses Agility. Therefore, Arceus-Fairy, Ho-Oh, and Landorus-T are great partners to Agility Miraidon, leveraging their excellent defensive typings and stats to switch into Ting-Lu and Koraidon effectively. Landorus-T's and Choice Scarf Koraidon's U-turns also provide a safe switch in opportunity for Agility Miraidon. Furthermore, Landorus-T checks Zacian-C, which otherwise outspeeds and threatens to OHKO Miraidon with Play Rough before it uses Agility. Ting-Lu is also a stellar partner for Miraidon, as the layers of Spikes it sets are an invaluable aid to a potential sweep. Miraidon can opt to use a more niche option in Overheat, which OHKOes Steel-types such as Necrozma-DM and Zacian-C under the sun provided by the omnipresent Koraidon. However, it is heavily prediction reliant and makes Miraidon drop more effective option in Taunt or Calm Mind. Miraidon can also opt for Tera Grass, which further bolsters the power of Solar Beam, allowing it to OHKO Ting-Lu at +1 and OHKO Arceus-Ground when unboosted. Furthermore, it lets Miraidon serve as a backup check to Arceus-Ground thanks to the Ground resistance it provides.
Togedemaru (SM competitive strategy): Togedemaru makes for an effective pivot in NU thanks to U-turn as well as solid defensive utility, letting it switch into attacks such as Volt Switch from Heliolisk and Aerial Ace from Aerodactyl. Togedemaru makes for a great utility Pokemon as a result of this as well as Nuzzle, letting it support slow wallbreakers like Swords Dance Incineroar and Pangoro very effectively. Unfortunately, Togedemaru is walled by common Pokemon such as Steelix and Seismitoad, which often leaves it capable of doing nothing more than spamming U-turn. Furthermore, Togedemaru's poor bulk makes it difficult at times for even bulkier sets to switch into resisted hits from the likes of Sceptile, Heliolisk, and Vikavolt. U-turn allows Togedemaru to pivot in and out of battle, especially against unideal matchups such as Incineroar, Steelix, and Rhydon. Zing Zap and Iron Head are decent STAB moves that hit Pokemon like Aerodactyl and Comfey for super effective damage while also having the potential to cause flinch to the foe. Nuzzle is a decent option for this set to provide speed control and opens up the door for Togedemaru to paraflinch foes such as Incineroar until they faint, while Toxic cripples defensive switch-ins such as Seismitoad and Palossand. Wild Charge can be ran to always OHKO Aerodactyl. Maximum Attack and Speed investment alongside a Choice Scarf and a Jolly nature makes Togedemaru a fast pivot that can outspeed other pivots such as Heliolisk and Choice Scarf Passimian as well as other fast threats like Sceptile, Aerodactyl, Vivillon, and +1 Timid Magmortar. Lightning Rod grants Togedemaru an immunity to Electric-type moves, allowing it to come in against Pokemon like Heliolisk and Vikavolt that attempt to use Volt Switch. Togedemaru should use the boosted speed from Choice Scarf to pivot with U-turn or pick off a weakened foe such as Sceptile or Aerodactyl. Iron Head and Zing Zap are also good moves to use, since they help provide important chip damage to bulky Pokemon like Druddigon and Incineroar, and they have a small chance to cause flinch to the foe. Because it is relatively frail, Togedemaru should never be brought in against a direct attack; the more damage Togedemaru takes, the less time it has to pivot. However, it can easily come in against a Pokemon with Electric-type moves such as Heliolisk or Rotom or against users of Toxic such as Golbat thanks to its Steel typing. Another important thing to note is that Togedemaru can easily come in against Comfey's Draining Kiss but needs to watch out for Hidden Power Fire, especially after it has boosted. Choice Scarf Togedemaru fits on teams that need a fast pivot as well as a check to Pokemon like Comfey, Heliolisk, Sneasel, and Sceptile. Druddigon with Glare is a notable partner, since it and Togedemaru can form a paralysis spreading core. Partners like Pangoro, Sceptile, and Sigilyph appreciate Togedemaru's ability to soft check Pokemon like Comfey, Mega Glalie, and Sneasel. These Pokemon can also help Togedemaru keep Ground- and Fighting-types in check in return. These Pokemon are also relatively frail and appreciate being brought into battle safely via U-turn and can punish what Togedemaru commonly draws in like Incineroar, Rhydon, and Steelix. Teammates such as Rhydon, Seismitoad, and Blastoise keep Fire-types in check so Togedemaru has an easier time pivoting. Wallbreakers like Alolan Exeggutor, Dhelmise, and Samurott appreciate Togedemaru drawing in Pokemon like Passimian, Rhydon, and Incineroar and benefit greatly from U-turn safely bringing them in. Bulky teammates such as Slowking, Dhelmise, and pivot Incineroar appreciate Togedemaru's immunity to Toxic. Incineroar can also form a pivoting core with Togedemaru. Wish support from teammates like Vaporeon and Delphox can help keep Togedemaru healthy if it has taken prior damage. Fighting-type checks such as Delphox, Garbodor, and Comfey also make good partners for Togedemaru. Togedemaru can function as a niche specially defensive Wish user capable of checking threats such as Heliolisk, Comfey, Vivillon, and Whimsicott while still providing U-turn support. However, Togedemaru's poor bulk leaves it easily overwhelmed by such threats, and it's vulnerable to Hidden Power Ground from Comfey and Vivillon. Super Fang can be run on the Choice Scarf set to give Togedemaru a way to meaningfully damage Steelix and Seismitoad. Toxic on the specially defensive set can be used to deal with more durable physical walls such as Palossand, Seismitoad, and Torterra, all of which can only be damaged by Super Fang.
Togedemaru (SS competitive strategy): Togedemaru stands out as one of the best Choice Scarf users in the tier thanks to its solid Speed tier, great offensive and defensive typing that allows it to check Pokemon such as Archeops and Whimsicott, ability to gain momentum through U-turn, and good abilities. Its unique defensive typing and access to recovery in Wish also makes Togedemaru a useful special wall for taking on certain difficult threats such as Ribombee and Vikavolt. However, despite its excellent set of resistances, its mediocre bulk and an unreliable recovery move limits Togedemaru's ability to directly switch into threats. Sitting at base 96 Speed, it is one of the fastest Choice Scarf users and can outspeed boosted setup sweepers like Modest Ludicolo and Silvally-Fairy. However, Togedemaru fails to OHKO many of these Pokemon due to its only average Attack stat and coverage options. Togedemaru faces strong competition as a specially defensive Steel-type from Aggron and Galarian Stunfisk, who can set up Stealth Rock, and as a Wish passer from Audino due to its much higher HP stat. Toxic is useful for crippling switch-ins like Quagsire and Vikavolt rather than merely pivoting out with U-turn, while Encore is more effective at annoying bulky setup sweepers such as Sandaconda. Lightning Rod is useful for pivoting into Volt Switch users such as Rotom and Vikavolt, but the chip damage from Iron Barbs is preferred if there is already an Electric-immune Pokemon on the team. Iron Barbs also helps defeat opposing Choice Scarf Togedemaru. While Togedemaru can be used throughout the match to tank some resisted hits, it is best brought in as a revenge killer or through slow pivots such as Lanturn and Silvally-Fairy, which form a VoltTurn core with it. Due to Togedemaru's poor damage output, it appreciates entry hazards from the likes of Gigalith and Froslass to help wear down its foes. Wallbreakers such as Whimsicott and Magmortar can also help wear down the opposing team so Togedemaru can potentially clean late-game, and they also serve as checks for threats to Togedemaru such as Palossand and Vikavolt, respectively. Iron Head is Togedemaru's attacking move of choice because it better threatens Pokemon Togedemaru is aiming to check such as Frosmoth and Whimsicott and does not leave Togedemaru unable to hit Ground-types. U-turn allows Togedemaru to slightly circumvent its passivity by pivoting on predicted switches, but Toxic cripples many Pokemon that Togedemaru cannot do much damage to such as Vikavolt. Heavy-Duty Boots significantly decreases Togedemaru's weakness to Spikes, Leftovers helps make it slightly less reliant on Wish, and Rocky Helmet in tandem with Iron Barbs allows Togedemaru to punish a wide variety of contact attackers. However, Lightning Rod is preferred to stop Volt Switch users such as Vikavolt and Rotom. 8 Speed EVs allow Togedemaru to outspeed Adamant Centiskorch and Modest Frosmoth. Togedemaru can support many teammates lacking recovery with Wish, such as Weezing and Mesprit, both of which also help against the Fighting-and Ground-types that threaten Togedemaru. Setup sweepers that can take advantage of Fighting- and Ground-types, such as Nasty Plot Mesprit and Quiver Dance Ribombee, appreciate being brought in through Togedemaru's U-turn.
Maushold (SV competitive strategy): Boasting the incredibly strong Technician Population Bomb along with the ability to set up and remove hazards in a single turn, Maushold stands out as one of the most threatening setup sweepers in the metagame. Due to its ability to outspeed and OHKO the majority of the tier after a single turn of boosting, it is imperative for every non-hyper offense team to have an answer to Maushold. Unfortunately for Maushold, this can be done incredibly easily by having any decently defensive Pokemon hold Rocky Helmet, as the multihit nature of Population Bomb simultaneously serves as its greatest strength and its Achilles' heel. Maushold's relative frailty also means that it can be easily dealt with by strong priority users and bulkier Pokemon that are able to survive a hit and KO it back. Tidy Up offers incredible utility, as it allows Maushold to set up and unpreventably remove hazards in a single slot. Bite is a go-to coverage option, as it allows Maushold to hit Ghost-types like Basculegion-F and Gengar. Bullet Seed is an alternative that can similarly hit the aforementioned Ghost-types as well as Rocky Helmet Hippowdon, which is one of Maushold's most common checks, at the cost of fizzling against Gengar. Encore can provide Maushold with free turns by locking an opponent into a useless move, which can often be game-winning due to Maushold's unrivaled power. Low Kick is another coverage option that enables Maushold to deal with bulky Steel-types such as Hisuian Goodra, Registeel, and Eviolite Bisharp. Wide Lens is crucial for Maushold to improve Population Bomb's consistency, as otherwise it only has an approximate 35% chance to hit 10 times. Technician boosts all of Population Bomb, Bite, and Bullet Seed, enabling Maushold to be incredibly threatening despite its low Attack stat. Tera Ghost provides Maushold with valuable immunities to Fighting and Normal and a resistance to Bug, which can prevent it from getting revenge killed by Fighting-type attacks, including Body Press from Chesnaught and Close Combat from Choice Scarf Galarian Zapdos, as well as Entei's Extreme Speed. This can be capitalized on with Encore to give Maushold incredibly valuable free turns to set up. Tera Normal can be used instead to boost Population Bomb's power, which allows Maushold to OHKO bulky Pokemon like Wo-Chien and specially defensive Umbreon without needing to set up. Maushold fits best on offense, particularly hyper offense, structures, primarily due its ability to remove hazards despite already being an incredibly powerful setup sweeper. Becase of this, it synergizes with other setup sweepers like Covert Cloak Gyarados and Weakness Policy Armarouge that are weak to Stealth Rock. While Maushold can be easily punished with physical walls holding Rocky Helmet such as Hippowdon, Slowbro, and Chesnaught, it can often deal massive amounts of damage to them before fainting, which can give other physically offensive setup sweepers such as Bisharp and Mimikyu the wiggle room to pull off a sweep later in the game. Maushold particularly benefits from specially offensive teammates like Armarouge and Gardevoir that can exploit any of the aforementioned physical walls hoping to get rid of Maushold. On generally offensive structures, Maushold can act as the primary setup sweeper and therefore greatly appreciates Knock Off support from Pokemon like Krookodile and Galarian Zapdos to remove Rocky Helmet from opposing physical walls. Maushold's greatest weakness, contact effects, can be neutralized with Protective Pads, albeit at the cost of drastically decreasing Population Bomb's reliability. Loaded Dice is an alternative to Wide Lens that improves Bullet Seed's reliability while still guaranteeing at least 4 hits with Population Bomb. Tera Fire can be used to prevent Maushold from getting burned by Will-O-Wisp Talonflame and grant it free turns to set up against it.
Kilowattrel (SV competitive strategy): Kilowattrel's high Speed, great STAB combination, and access to two great abilities make it a great pivot that can benefit many teams. Volt Absorb makes it a decent soft check to opposing Electric-types like Bellibolt, Raikou, and Toxtricity, and with Tera Steel it can full-on wall these foes; additionally, with how common stat-dropping moves and abilities are in NU, Kilowattrel's Competitive is quite useful, allowing it to capitalize on Brambleghast's Strength Sap and both Paldean Tauros-W's and Incineroar's Intimidate. On top of that, Kilowattrel being able to fire off a powerful Volt Switch or an unblockable U-turn helps it keep up pressure and momentum, and this aids Kilowattrel with wearing down checks like Diancie, Copperajah, and Bronzong. Kilowattrel's counters aren't that common; however, whenever Kilowattrel comes across one like Bellibolt, it struggles to deal with them and is forced to pivot, giving away free turns. Kilowattrel's low bulk also can be detrimental, as any neutral hit can easily 2HKO it, such as Jolly Barraskewda's Liquidation or Loaded Dice Flygon's Scale Shot. Even Pokemon Kilowattrel would normally take out can beat Kilowattrel one-on-one if they have access to priority moves, like Sucker Punch Toxicroak and Aqua Jet Basculegion-M, due to its disappointing bulk. Air Slash is preferred, as it is more accurate and can hit Wind Rider Brambleghast, but Hurricane can be used on teams that can handle it through other means. U-turn helps it keep up momentum in the face of Ground-types like Gligar, Flygon, and Swampert; however, Volt Switch lets Kilowattrel take advantage of Competitive's Special Attack boosts better. Roost allows Kilowattrel to continually pivot and gain value from its Competitive. Heavy-Duty Boots is preferred to let Kilowattrel come in safely and repeatedly during a match. Volt Absorb can be run to take advantage of Raikou, Bellibolt, and opposing Competitive Kilowattrel. On the other hand, Competitive allows Kilowattrel to capitalize on common Pokemon's abilities and moves like both Overqwil's and Incineroar's Intimidate as well as Brambleghast's Strength Sap. 160 HP EVs allows Kilowattrel to reliably revenge kill all Flamigo, surviving two Close Combats or Brave Birds from its Choice Scarf set so that it can retaliate with a Thunderbolt. Alternatively, an EV spread of 92 Def / 164 SpA / 252 Spe could be used to achieve the same goal at the cost of lower bulk but better offensive presence. Tera Steel allows Kilowattrel to resist many common attacks like Cinccino's Tail Slap, Inteleon's Ice Beam, and Munkidori's Sludge Wave and Psychic. Entry hazard setters like Klefki, Flygon, Copperajah, and Gligar are great partners for Kilowattrel, as their hazards can punish the opponent's switches, while Kilowattrel helps keep the hazards up by pressuring stray Defoggers like Cramorant, Scyther, and Decidueye. Similarly, Kilowattrel can work with hyper offense leads like Cinccino, Lycanroc, and Froslass. While Kilowattrel can pressure Defoggers, it fails to stop spinners like Brambleghast, Avalugg, and Tsareena, so pairing it with a Ghost-type like Basculegion-M, Decidueye, or Chandelure is a good idea. Kilowattrel can pressure Water-types like Vaporeon, Milotic, and Basculegion-M quite easily, meaning Pokemon that struggle dealing with them or can force them in like Flygon, Incineroar, and Inteleon have good synergy. Special walls like Diancie, Copperajah, and Bronzong can be difficult to take down alone, so physical wallbreakers like Breloom, Flygon, and Incineroar are great to deal with them, and Kilowattrel can form VoltTurn cores with many of them. Electric- and Rock-types like Bellibolt, Volt Absorb Kilowattrel, and Diancie are difficult for Kilowattrel to KO; because of this, Ground-type teammates like Flygon, Rhyperior, and Gligar make for good partners. Kilowattrel can opt for a Choice Specs set to more easily wallbreak, but its weakness to Stealth Rock combined with how much it loves to pivot leads to it usually being worn down too quickly. Alternatively, Life Orb can by used on more offensive teamstyles that can both keep up enough pressure to prevent Stealth Rock from being set up and take advantage of the extra boost it gives Kilowattrel. Kilowattrel can run Weather Ball on rain and snow teams to hit Ground-types like Swampert, Gligar, and Flygon harder than Air Slash can, and notably, Weather Ball on snow teams lets Hurricane Kilowattrel easily dispatch Wind Rider Brambleghast. Thunder is also great for more power on rain teams, taking advantage of the weather. Tera Blast Fairy can even be used, as it lets Kilowattrel hit Flygon super effectively while blanking its Outrage and Scale Shot. On top of that, it lets Kilowattrel maintain its Fighting resistance and gives it a solid defensive typing. Tera Blast Ground is another option that lets Kilowattrel dispatch Diancie, Bellibolt, and Copperajah, since they can be annoying for Kilowattrel to get past at times. Tera Ghost can be used to avoid a powerful Close Combat from Choice Scarf Infernape, Heracross, and Paldean Tauros-W; however, the defensive utility that Tera Steel or Fairy gives Kilowattrel is usually preferred.
Furfrou (XY competitive strategy): Furfrou is a great wallbreaker with its solid Attack, Speed, and coverage moves to take down common walls. U-turn gives Furfrou the ability to pivot out from the likes of Bronzor, Dusclops, and Lairon, bringing in a teammate that matches up favorably against them. Sucker Punch is great for picking up KOs against faster foes like Swoobat, Persian, and Electabuzz after some chip damage; however, this is usually for endgame scenarios, as Furfrou wants to avoid being taken advantage of if it's locked into Sucker Punch. Iron Tail allows Furfrou to 2HKO common switch-ins such as, Gigalith and Carbink. Toxic can be used to cripple Pokemon that Furfrou wouldn't be able to take on otherwise like Gourgeist-L and Hippopotas, giving Furfrou an easier time dealing with them later in the game. Furfrou forms a great pivoting core with Frogadier and Electabuzz, helping each other chip down their checks. It has trouble dealing with Steel-types like Bronzor, Klang, and Lairon, so it prefers to pivot out of them and bring in teammates like Pignite and Magmar. Hippopotas and Gourgeist-L can easily take on Furfrou, making it rely on partners like Vanilluxe and Politoed to come in and force them out. Furfrou appreciates Knock Off users like Servine, Scraggy, and Simipour, since they can weaken physical walls that rely on Eviolite like Quilladin and Hippopotas. Physical cleaners like Shell Smash Huntail, Dragon Dance Scraggy, and Choice Scarf Krokorok appreciate Furfrou's ability to break through physical walls like Carbink, Swalot, and Duosion for them. Furfrou can opt for a Choice Scarf to outspeed the likes of Persian, Swoobat, and Electabuzz; however, it then greatly loses out on its wallbreaking ability. Thunder Wave is an option to cripple fast targets like Sawsbuck, Jumpluff, and Klang, making them easier for teammates to take down. However, Furfrou usually prefers to pivot out of them and bring in teammates to keep up the momentum. Facade is an option in its last slot for a very strong STAB move if Furfrou takes a Toxic or gets burned. However, it prefers to have one of the other two options, as they give it a more reliable way to wallbreak. Hidden Power Ground 2HKOes Lairon but compromises Furfrou's bulk and doesn't hit other targets hard enough.
Furfrou (SM competitive strategy): With its great Speed tier and sizable bulk, Furfrou excels as both a revenge killer and offensive pivot. What makes Furfrou unique as an offensive pivot is its ability, Fur Coat, as the additional Defense allows it to tank attacks from the likes of Electivire, Komala, and Sandslash. Fur Coat along with its high Speed makes Furfrou a great cleaner as well, as it is naturally outspeeds a great number of foes while being able to stomach the attacks of physical Choice Scarf users like Electivire and Rapidash, all the while having a decent chance to KO them back. When boosted by Choice Band, Furfrou's STAB Return can threaten OHKOs on frailer targets like Swanna and Simisear after slight chip damage, and thanks to U-turn, Furfrou can pick off weakened or extra vulnerable targets like Silvally-Dark, Leafeon, and Exeggutor while safely pivoting out and generating momentum. However, Furfrou's limited coverage can make it a one-trick pony, and physical walls like Mawile, Gourgeist-XL, and Dusclops can easily tank or play around its attacks. Locking into its attacks can also make Furfrou setup bait, and its weak Surf notably can be taken advantage of by common sweepers like Swanna, Simisage, and Bibarel. Furfrou also gets worn down easily from the residual damage of entry hazards and status conditions, which gives walls like Bronzor and Mareanie opportunities to capitalize on it. Lastly, threatening faster special attackers like Kadabra, Raichu, and Choice Scarf Rotom-S limit its potential opportunities to switch in and revenge kill foes. U-turn allows Furfrou to pivot out while still threatening heavy damage against targets like Silvally-Dark and Exeggutor. Surf is worthwhile for 2HKOing Golem, which otherwise takes little from Furfrou's Normal- and Bug-type coverage. Sucker Punch opens an opportunity for Furfrou to revenge kill weakened faster threats like Kadabra and Choice Scarf Chatot. Toxic instead can be chosen to wear down physical walls like Gourgeist-XL and Poliwrath that Furfrou cannot break otherwise. Facade is a noteworthy option to capitalize on if Furfrou is afflicted with status, but this attack is usually too situational and less rewarding in comparison to the other coverage. A Choice Band and Jolly nature give Furfrou the chance to outspeed and OHKO multiple threats like Swanna and Electivire. Despite having a Jolly nature and lack of Special Attack investment, Surf still 2HKOes every relevant Golem set, which is the only target it is meant for. Thanks to its great Speed and physical bulk, Furfrou functions great early-game as a scout and lead. Furfrou can safely U-turn on possible entry hazard setters like Golem and Torterra, and the damage may determine if the targets are running defensive or wallbreaking sets. Using U-turn in general is usually safe, but you should try avoiding unnecessary residual damage from Rocky Helmet Mawile and entry hazards by either hard switching instead or using U-turn only as an opportunity to bring in anti-entry hazard teammates. Frailer setup sweepers like Z-Mirror Move Swanna and Nasty Plot Simipour have a chance to survive a Furfrou's Return at full, but they are guaranteed to be OHKOed after Stealth Rock damage. Try not to risk Furfrou's health in these situations and plan to revenge kill these threats after they have taken Stealth Rock or similar damage; try using U-turn first before revenge killing with Return. Furfrou's niche coverage in Surf, Sucker Punch, and Toxic can be used to capitalize on otherwise threatening checks like Golem, Kadabra, and Pyukumuku. However, locking into these attacks can make Furfrou vulnerable to setup sweepers like Leafeon, Combusken, and Pawniard, so only risk these attacks when appropriate. If needed, Furfrou can switch into physical attackers like Electivire, Rapidash, Leafeon, and Komala to force them out, but risking Furfrou's health jeopardizes its role as a potential late-game cleaner. This is even more relevant if the latter two examples use Knock Off, as Furfrou relies heavily on its Choice Band for adequate damage. As a cleaner, Furfrou has no trouble breaking past weakened offensive Pokemon like Simisage and Silvally-Dragon, but you should make sure Pokemon that resist or are immune to Normal like Bronzor, Crustle, and Dusclops are significantly worn down or already dealt with. Furfrou works great on a VoltTurn core with the support of offensive pivots such as Electivire, Rotom-S, Silvally-Dragon, and Silvally-Dark. Silvally-Dark is also notable for trapping Bronzor, Metang, and Dusclops, which Furfrou cannot break on its own but are conveniently weak to Silvally-Dark's Pursuit. To help with physical walls like Golem and Mawile, Furfrou can U-turn out to wallbreakers such as Exeggutor, Torterra, and Beheeyem, which also appreciate that Furfrou may switch into physical revenge killers to them like Swanna and Pinsir if it needs to. Furfrou's susceptibility to faster attackers means it can be revenge killed by Kadabra, Raichu, and Choice Scarf Mr. Mime, so try pairing it with defensive Pokemon like Bronzor, Torterra, and Komala. These walls can both help tank hits for Furfrou while also providing either Stealth Rock or additional U-turn pivoting with it. The opponent's entry hazards deter Furfrou from constantly pivoting, so try having entry hazard removal from Swanna, Silvally-Dragon, and Sandslash. Swanna is especially notable because it checks Fighting-types such as Combusken, Silvally-Fighting, and Poliwrath for Furfrou. Furfrou struggles to break past stall teams that can pack defensive walls like Avalugg and Pyukumuku, Ghost-types like Dusclops and Gourgeist-XL, and Toxic switch-ins like Altaria and Muk. Supporting Furfrou with stallbreakers like Taunt Simisear or Knock Off users like Mareanie and Leafeon can help in these matchups. With Cotton Guard, Rest, and an investment that maximizes HP and Speed, Furfrou can be a defensive setup sweeper that finds opportunities to boost thanks to being faster than most Pokemon and Fur Coat. However, this is usually not worthwhile, as it lacks sufficient coverage, reliable recovery, and the ability to break other walls. Work Up can help raise Furfrou's firepower without the downside of being Choice-locked, but the lack of immediate strength and offensive coverage makes Furfrou underwhelming as a setup sweeper.
Heatmor (BW competitive strategy): support from Roselia, Garbodor, or Scolipede is recommended to put Pursuit to a decent effect, as it forces out Jynx, Exeggutor, Gardevoir, Water-types such as offensive Seismitoad, Carracosta, and Samurott can
Heatmor (SM competitive strategy): Although Heatmor has decent offensive stats and a good STAB move in Fire Lash, it struggles to make good use of them properly because it is too slow to do anything and is outsped by most viable offensive pokemon, such as Stoutland, Kabutops, and Skuntank. Furthermore, thanks to its low defenses, Heatmor is unable to take hits well whatsoever and finds itself facing competition from Combusken, which can utilize Eviolite, has a secondary Fighting typing, and has Speed Boost and Swords Dance, making it a more reliable Fire-type wallbreaker. This set can utilize Heatmor's decent Attack stat and its coverage to try to hit every Pokemon in the tier for at least neutral damage. However, Heatmor is not a good Pokemon to use because it finds itself unable to secure KOs on Pokemon such as Mudsdale with Giga Drain, and due to its poor defenses, Heatmor has poor longevity and is OHKOed by most strong attackers. Its Speed isn't helping it either, as most of these strong attackers like Stoutland are able to outspeed Heatmor and KO it as well. Heatmor is not recommended over Pokemon like Combusken and Simisear because they are more powerful and they can do a better job than Heatmor overall.
Heatmor (SS competitive strategy): Heatmor is a slow and frail mixed attacker; thus, it is outclassed by other Fire-types such as Rapidash and Ninetales thanks to their better bulk and Speed as well as access to boosting options. Heatmor, thanks to its access to Fire Lash, might look like a budget Centiskorch, which was banned from ZU thanks to its insane wallbreaking power mainly due to this move; unfortunately, Heatmor doesn’t hold up to that title, being both weaker and frailer than Centiskorch and having less useful coverage moves for common metagame threats. It is also outclassed by more reliable Fire-types like Rapidash and Ninetales, which are faster and bulkier, and they also have access to better coverage and boosting options.
Iron Crown (SV competitive strategy): Leveraging its high Special Attack and good coverage, Choice Specs Iron Crown is a strong wallbreaker that can 2HKO a number of the metagame's defensive options like Garganacl and Gliscor. Tachyon Cutter being a multi-hit move lets Iron Crown OHKO Focus Sash Glimmora without activating Toxic Debris, break Multiscale on Dragonite, and deal significant damage to Landorus-T. Psyshock is preferred to let Iron Crown take on specially defensive walls like Galarian Slowking, Clodsire, and Blissey, while Psychic Noise can be used instead to prevent Pokemon like Corviknight and Zapdos from healing in front of it. Volt Switch lets Iron Crown pivot out of Pokemon it would otherwise struggle against while also dealing significant damage to the likes of Primarina and Alomomola. Focus Blast helps Iron Crown deal with Steel-types like Kingambit and Iron Treads and is its best option to damage Ting-Lu. Tera Steel increases the power of Tachyon Cutter, letting it 2HKO offensive Gholdengo variants and OHKO fully HP invested Landorus-T most of the time, while Tera Fighting Focus Blast guarantees a 2HKO on Ting-Lu, as well as OHKOes Ogerpon-W most of the time and guarantees an OHKO on Cinderace. Both Tera types also remove Iron Crown's weakness to Dark-type moves, improving its matchup against offensive Dark-types like Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott. Choice Specs Iron Crown needs physically offensive teammates like Zamazenta and Dragonite that can reliably remove specially defensive Pokemon like Ting-Lu and Blissey. In return, they benefit from Iron Crown being able to handle physical walls like Clefable and Dondozo. Because Iron Crown will be consistently locked into one move, it's easier to revenge kill, so it needs defensive teammates such as Primarina and Landorus-T that can switch into faster offensive Pokemon like Darkrai and Zamazenta while also providing pivot support for Iron Crown. Alomomola is another good teammate for Iron Crown, pivoting it into favorable matchups and keeping it healthy with Wish. Gholdengo is especially annoying for Iron Crown, as it resists both of its STAB moves and can easily heal off damage, so teammates like Kingambit and Great Tusk that can easily take care of it are useful. Finally, Iron Crown benefits from entry hazard setters like Hisuian Samurott that can soften up foes and allow it to clean them up easier. Assault Vest Iron Crown serves as a strong offensive pivot and sturdy check to a bevy of special attackers like Calm Mind Iron Valiant, Kyurem, and Enamorus. Tachyon Cutter's multi-hit properties allow it to bypass Glimmora's Focus Sash to OHKO it before it can set up any entry hazards. Future Sight's delayed damage puts a tremendous amount of pressure on the opposing team, since Dark-types switching in to block Future Sight or Steel-types and special walls trying to sponge the attack will have to survive powerful physical attacks from teammates like Great Tusk, Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, Zamazenta, and Weavile; Psychic Noise offers lower but more immediate damage while simultaneously nullifying recovery attempts from Gholdengo, Blissey, Corviknight, Garganacl, and Clodsire, allowing Iron Crown and its teammates to force significant damage against these threats. Focus Blast rounds out Iron Crown's coverage by hitting Kingambit, Ting-Lu, and Tera Steel Clodsire super effectively, and it is also its strongest attack against opposing Iron Crown. Volt Switch allows Iron Crown to capitalize on its ability to force out most special attackers and gain momentum for its team and has great synergy with Future Sight by safely pivoting in the aforementioned powerful physical attackers that can take advantage of the chip damage or switches it forces. Assault Vest greatly boosts Iron Crown's special bulk, allowing it to better handle special attackers like Calm Mind Iron Valiant and Enamorus. Tera Fighting turns Iron Crown's weakness to Dark-type attacks into a resistance, allowing it to survive Kingambit's Sucker Punch in a pinch while boosting its Focus Blast to 2HKO Ting-Lu and physically defensive Corviknight; Tera Fairy also offers a Dark resistance, but the Dragon immunity, Fighting resistance, and Fairy neutrality it provides allow Iron Crown to better check Dragapult and more reliably handle mixed and physical Iron Valiant sets without compromising its ability to check Calm Mind variants as heavily. Iron Crown is best run on bulky offense teams, which can both cover Iron Crown's defensive shortcomings and maintain a similar level of offensive pressure, often in the form of additional pivoting options to maintain momentum. Hisuian Samurott is a spectacular teammate; it can form a VoltTurn core with Iron Crown using Flip Turn, reliably set Spikes with Ceaseless Edge, and even remove Heavy-Duty Boots with its strong STAB Knock Off to allow the duo to rack up massive amounts of lasting damage through Spikes and Future Sight or Psychic Noise. The two share excellent defensive synergy, as Hisuian Samurott's Ghost and Dark resistances cover Dragapult, Gholdengo, and opposing Hisuian Samurott while Iron Crown's Grass and Fairy resistances cover Rillaboom and Iron Valiant. Ceaseless Edge and Knock Off have impeccable synergy with Future Sight, and Hisuian Samurott's Razor Shell hits Dark-types like Ting-Lu and Kingambit very hard, rendering Iron Crown's Future Sight much more difficult to switch in against. Landorus-T is another great teammate; it also forms a powerful VoltTurn core with Iron Crown, can blanket check most physical attackers with Intimidate and Rocky Helmet to complement Iron Crown's ability to blanket check most special attackers with Assault Vest, can set up Stealth Rock, and the two also boast impeccable defensive synergy courtesy of Iron Crown checking Ice Beam users like Deoxys-S and Landorus-T checking physical Iron Valiant and Heatran. Together, Iron Crown, Hisuian Samurott, and Landorus-T form an extremely powerful core that resists every type in the game, utilizes multiple pivoting options, sets up both Stealth Rock and Spikes, and can blanket check many physical and special attackers alike. Calm Mind Primarina is a good teammate that can run Psychic Noise itself, allowing Iron Crown to more freely run Future Sight, and can take advantage of Iron Crown's ability to wear down teams over time to set up for a late-game sweep once threats like Encore Iron Valiant are dealt with. Physically defensive Moltres is another solid teammate, as it can reliably check most physical attackers by spreading burn with Will-O-Wisp and Flame Body and heavily punishes Dark-types like Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott and Steel-types like Gholdengo aiming to switch into Future Sight, and appreciates Iron Crown's ability to temporarily keep special attackers like Deoxys-S and Walking Wake at bay. Kingambit itself makes for a strong teammate, as with Iron Crown's Future Sight support, Kingambit has a much easier time both finding opportunities to set up with Swords Dance and muscle past physical walls like Dondozo and Alomomola, which are quickly overwhelmed by the combination of Future Sight and powerful Dark-type attacks possibly boosted further by Black Glasses, Tera Dark, and Supreme Overlord. Kingambit additionally resists Ghost- and Dark-type attacks from the likes of Gholdengo and opposing Kingambit lacking Low Kick, which Iron Crown greatly appreciates. Zamazenta and Weavile also greatly appreciate both Iron Crown's Future Sight support and its pivoting capabilities, allowing them to be brought in safely and giving them opportunities to fire off a powerful Body Press or Knock Off that, when paired with Future Sight, can prove nearly impossible to switch in against. With solid bulk, a one-time Speed boost, and near-perfect coverage, Calm Mind Iron Crown is a solid sweeper and late-game cleaner. Tachyon Cutter has the benefit of hitting twice, allowing Iron Crown to OHKO common Focus Sash leads in Glimmora and Ribombee, giving it an alternate use as an anti-lead that denies entry hazards. Tachyon Cutter also allows Iron Crown to break Substitutes while chipping the Pokemon hiding behind it; it can break Zamazenta’s Substitute after one Calm Mind and Kyurem’s without any Calm Mind boosts. After one Calm Mind, Iron Crown can hit several important ranges with Tachyon Cutter such as an OHKO on Kyurem and a good chance to KO offensive Landorus-T; it also secures a 2HKO against defensive Landorus-T variants while not being 2HKOed by Earth Power. The choice of Psychic-type STAB move depends on the team's needs: Psyshock targets the lower Defense of Galarian Slowking, Ogerpon-W, and Primarina, while Psychic Noise prevents walls such as Dondozo, Pecharunt, Alomomola, and Corviknight from spamming recovery to outlast Iron Crown. Stored Power is an option that can reach astonishing power levels, capable of breaking past almost any non-immune wall; however, it requires several turns of setup and has no benefit other than raw damage. Focus Blast complements Iron Crown's STAB combination by providing excellent neutral and super effective coverage against everything in the metagame except Gholdengo. It is Iron Crown's best way of hitting Ting-Lu and Steel-types like Kingambit and Iron Treads. The EV spread maximizes Iron Crown's offensive capabilities while letting Booster Energy enhance its Speed; the leftover EVs are invested into HP for increased survivability, notably allowing Iron Crown to survive a Choice Specs Kyurem Earth Power. Tera Fighting and Tera Fairy remove Iron Crown's original weaknesses, most notably both turning its weakness to Dark-type moves such as Kingambit and Hisuian Samurott’s Sucker Punch into a resistance to give it an easier time sweeping. Tera Fighting strengthens Iron Crown's Focus Blast, OHKOing Darkrai 2HKOing on Ting-Lu at +1. Tera Fairy is a more defensive Tera type that, unlike Tera Fighting, gives it fewer weaknesses. It further improves Iron Crown’s matchups against Walking Wake, Raging Bolt, and Dragapult by turning the Dragon resistance into an immunity. Calm Mind Iron Crown best fits on offense teams that appreciate its unique traits as a sweeper. Due to its low initial damage output, Iron Crown will struggle against bulky threats such as Ting-Lu, Galarian Slowking, and Gholdengo, which require significant chip damage for it to break through them. Teammates such as Hisuian Samurott and Ogerpon-W significantly threaten these bulky foes, and in return, Iron Crown can deal with Kyurem and Rillaboom. Iron Crown is also extremely vulnerable to many offensive threats, many of which can survive almost any hit from an unboosted Iron Crown such as Hisuian Samurott, Landorus-T, and Kingambit; they can either force a Tera or outright KO Iron Crown. Ogerpon-W and Iron Moth also resist Tachyon Cutter and threaten a clean 2HKO on Iron Crown. As such, Iron Crown appreciates pivots such as Pecharunt, which walls Ogerpon-W and weakens it with Parting Shot, and Alomomola, which can take hits from Weavile, Hisuian Samurott, and other physical threats and threaten a burn with Scald to enable Iron Crown set up on them. Furthermore, special walls like Blissey and Clodsire using Tera Dark completely wall Iron Crown, as Focus Blast does insufficient damage. Because of this, Iron Crown appreciates physically offensive teammates, such as Hisuian Samurott, Great Tusk, and Zamazenta, that can deal with its checks; in return, they appreciate Iron Crown's removal of Fairy- and Fighting-type threats such as Enamorus, Hatterene, and Great Tusk. Hisuian Samurott and Great Tusk also set entry hazards to accumulate chip damage, which can compensate for this set's low initial power and allow Iron Crown to clean up or sweep earlier than expected.
Decidueye (SM competitive strategy): Decidueye is a potent wallbreaker thanks to Nasty Plot letting it break past even checks like Incineroar and Garbodor with Z-Moves. Decidueye's able to use its good defensive typing, recovery in Roost, and bulk to switch into Pokemon like Heliolisk and Slowking to set up and stay healthy. Additionally, Decidueye can provide further utility to teams via U-turn and Defog. Unfortunately, Decidueye's Speed tier is average at best, leaving it outsped and revenge killed by threats like Rotom, Delphox, and Sigilyph. Decidueye is also easily Pursuit trapped by Aerodactyl, Sneasel, and Absol because of this. Furthermore, Decidueye struggles to break past Incineroar without prior chip damage, and its Defog sets are much more passive than its Nasty Plot one. Nasty Plot can be used to capitalize on the switches that Decidueye forces and lets it OHKO Pokemon such as Weezing and Vikavolt with a boosted Never-Ending Nightmare. Shadow Ball hits Pokemon such as Dhelmise and Xatu for heavy damage while offering good neutral coverage against Poison-types such as Garbodor and Weezing. Leaf Storm is Decidueye's strongest attack, with great coverage against top-tier threats such as Slowking, Rhydon, and Heliolisk while being Decidueye's best option against Pangoro. Energy Ball or Giga Drain can be run over it, but their lacking initial power hurts Decidueye's mid-game power. Roost is used to keep Decidueye healthy, letting it come in many times a game against foes such as Heliolisk, Blastoise, and Slowking and set up against Weezing. Maximum Speed and a Timid nature are required to outrun Incineroar, Adamant Garbodor, Blastoise, and Xatu. Maximum Special Attack gives Decidueye the power needed to threaten opposing Pokemon, such as OHKOing Palossand and Steelix after a Nasty Plot boost. Ghostium Z can be used to turn Shadow Ball into Never-Ending Nightmare, which lets Decidueye OHKO foes such as Weezing, Garbodor, and Vikavolt after a Nasty Plot. Grassium Z-boosted Leaf Storm is Decidueye's strongest possible attack and can OHKO Pangoro without needing a Nasty Plot boost while guaranteeing an OHKO on Incineroar after a Nasty Plot and one round of Stealth Rock. This Decidueye set should be brought in as many times as possible against bulky Water-types such as Blastoise, defensive Slowking, and Vaporeon, as it fears very little from them. While it does resist Ground, be more careful against Rhydon and Steelix, and try to bring Decidueye in when predicting them to set up Stealth Rock. Decidueye can also be brought in against Blastoise or Seismitoad to heal with Roost. Despite carrying Nasty Plot, Decidueye is often best off attacking with Leaf Storm or Shadow Ball, which hit hard enough to often OHKO foes without needing a boost. However, if the opponent is running Pokemon such as defensive Garbodor and Weezing that take little damage from Shadow Ball or Leaf Storm, Decidueye should use Nasty Plot and then aim to OHKO them with Never-Ending Nightmare. Be careful with the timing of Decidueye's Z-Move; Never-Ending Nightmare should be used after a Nasty Plot to OHKO foes such as Weezing, Garbodor, or a slightly weakened Incineroar, while Bloom Doom should be used to lure in and OHKO Pokemon such as Pangoro. Pangoro, Passimian, and Comfey greatly appreciate this set luring in and KOing Poison-types such as Weezing and Garbodor for them. The former two also heavily threaten Incineroar, one of this set's biggest roadblocks. Rhydon, Guzzlord, and Blastoise all wall and force out Incineroar, and given that this set generally allows Incineroar in, they make great teammates. Aerodactyl is a great teammate, bringing in Water-types such as Blastoise, trapping Delphox with Pursuit, and easily cleaning weakened teams after Decidueye wallbreaks. Aerodactyl also traps Sigilyph and Rotom, both of which can revenge kill Decidueye. Stealth Rock and Spikes users such as Steelix and Garbodor also pair excellently with this set, as it excels at blocking Rapid Spin from Blastoise and Dhelmise. Stealth Rock support is especially helpful for putting Incineroar into range of a +2 Bloom Doom and giving a +2 Never-Ending-Nightmare good odds to OHKO it. Decidueye is a good user of Defog because it can pressure entry hazard setters such as Rhydon, Steelix, Seismitoad, and Palossand with Grass Knot. Roost keeps Decidueye healthy throughout the match so it can continue to pivot in against Pokemon such as Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Medicham. U-turn lets Decidueye exit the battle from bad matchups such as against Incineroar, Delphox, and Magmortar. Giga Drain can be used instead to give Decidueye an extra form of recovery and can potentially get it out of KO range from Slowking's Fire Blast. With the given EV spread and a Colbur Berry, Decidueye can take two Knock Offs from Passimian and is able to pivot in and out of special attackers such as Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Comfey. It can also survive Pursuit from Sneasel and more or less get out of the battle with U-turn. 16 EVs in Speed allow Decidueye to outspeed maximum Speed Rhydon. Long Reach allows Decidueye to pivot out with U-turn without being punished by Xatu and Garbodor's Rocky Helmet. Leftovers is also a viable item on this set to give Decidueye more passive recovery. Decidueye should aim to clear entry hazards as soon as possible, but make sure that Toxic Spikes are cleared first, as being afflicted with bad poison hinders its solid bulk. In order to get Decidueye into battle, it is advised to bring it in against a Pokemon it is not immediately threatened by such as Heliolisk, Sceptile, and Passimian locked into Close Combat. It can also come in against common Stealth Rock setters like Rhydon, Seismitoad, and Palossand as they are setting up entry hazards. This play can be risky, though, because Rhydon, Palossand, and Steelix can threaten Decidueye with heavy damage. Since Decidueye can usually force these Pokemon out of the battle, it can be a good idea to use Roost if it has taken prior damage or U-turn to escape from Grass-resistant Pokemon like Incineroar, Sceptile, and Togedemaru. Pokemon like Incineroar, Mega Glalie, and Braviary appreciate Decidueye's ability to clear entry hazards and beat Stealth Rock setters like Rhydon and Seismitoad. Incineroar can also form a U-turn core with Decidueye and check Ice- and Grass-types for it, while in return Decidueye can help beat Water-types for Incineroar. Grounded Poison-types like Garbodor can help clear Toxic Spikes for Decidueye. Garbodor also appreciates Decidueye's ability to beat Stealth Rock setters. Decidueye can also form VoltTurn cores with Pokemon like Passimian, Heliolisk, and Rotom. Passimian can also help Decidueye beat Dark-type Pokemon like Sneasel, while Rotom can help beat Ghost-types like Dhelmise. In return, Decidueye can beat Ground-types for Rotom and Heliolisk, letting them use Volt Switch more often. Pokemon like Rhydon, Togedemaru, and Sneasel appreciate Decidueye's immunity to Fighting-type moves. Bulky Water-types like Slowking, Vaporeon, and Blastoise can help keep Fire-types at bay. Vaporeon can also use Heal Bell to heal Decidueye of status conditions. Leaf Storm can easily pressure Stealth Rock setters like Rhydon and Seismitoad, which is why Decidueye makes a good offensive Defogger. Roost heals Decidueye if it has taken prior damage and allows it to stay healthy so it can keep pivoting or using Defog if needed. U-turn allows Decidueye to pivot out of Pokemon like Dhelmise and bring in a teammate that can deal with said threat. Shadow Ball can also be used with Ghostium Z to threaten Pokemon like Weezing, Druddigon, Garbodor, and Vikavolt, but it leaves Decidueye helpless against Pokemon like Braviary and is difficult to justify considering how important Decidueye's other moves are. A Timid nature with maximum Special Attack and Speed investment allows Decidueye to hit as hard and be as fast as possible. Colbur Berry allows Decidueye to take at least one Knock Off or Pursuit from users such as Incineroar, Passimian, and Sneasel and pivot out immediately. Grassium Z is the preferred offensive item on this set, since it makes Decidueye a lot more effective at checking Pokemon like Steelix and Slowking, and even has the added bonus of OHKOing Pangoro from full health . It also bypasses Leaf Storm's Special Attack drops. Miracle Seed can be used instead to give a boost to Leaf Storm without recoil, as Miracle Seed-boosted Leaf Storm puts Assault Vest Slowking in range of U-turn, putting it in an even tougher position. It also threatens to OHKO Piloswine, Regirock, Vaporeon, and Blastoise, OHKO Pangoro after U-turn, and 2HKO Steelix. Overgrow is the preferred ability so Leaf Storm can be boosted in a critical moment. Decidueye should aim to clear entry hazards as soon as it can and avoid Toxic Spikes at all costs. It should aim to come in against Stealth Rock setters like Rhydon, bulky Water-types like Vaporeon and Blastoise, or Pokemon that are of no immediate threat to it like Heliolisk. However, be cautious if Rhydon goes for Stone Edge instead of Stealth Rock expecting Decidueye to come in and clear Stealth Rock. Decidueye's Z-Move should be saved to heavily dent certain foes such as Steelix, Slowking, and Pangoro. After it has forced out a Stealth Rock setter, Decidueye can recover with Roost, clear hazards with Defog, or use U-turn to pivot out of battle against a bad matchup such as against Magmortar, Weezing, and Togedemaru. Because this set does not use Long Reach, be cautious of using U-turn against Pokemon like Rocky Helmet Weezing. Decidueye fits best on teams that need an answer to Stealth Rock setters while also removing entry hazards. Pokemon like Magmortar, Delphox, and Sneasel appreciate Decidueye's ability to provide Defog support, beat Stealth Rock setters, and bring them in safely with U-turn. In return, these Pokemon can beat other Grass-types and, in Magmortar and Delphox's case, Steel-types that resist Decidueye's Leaf Storm. Garbodor is also a good partner for Decidueye because it can clear Toxic Spikes for Decidueye. In return, Decidueye can beat bulky Ground-types. Water-types such as Slowking and Vaporeon also beat Fire-type Pokemon for Decidueye. Flying-types such as Braviary, Vivillon, and Sigilyph can help Decidueye beat other Grass-types. In return, Decidueye can beat Rhydon and Steelix for these Pokemon. Other pivots such as Rotom, Vikavolt, and Choice Scarf Passimian can form a pivoting core with Decidueye. Passimian is especially noteworthy, since it can also beat Dark-types for Decidueye. Rotom and Vikavolt, meanwhile, can help deal with Flying-types for Decidueye. Wallbreakers such as Swords Dance Incineroar, Alolan Exeggutor, Comfey, and Pangoro appreciate Decidueye's U-turn, which allows them to enter the battle safely. Decidueye can run a physically offensive set with Swords Dance / Spirit Shackle / Leaf Blade / Shadow Sneak or Sucker Punch, a Jolly nature with maximum Attack and Speed investment, and a Z-Crystal like Grassium Z or Decidium Z to become a dangerous sweeper that can deal with faster threats thanks to its access to priority moves like Shadow Sneak and Sucker Punch. However, this set is reliant on boosts and a Z-Crystal to beat its checks, many Pokemon like Garbodor, Golbat, and Choice Scarf Passimian are not thwarted by Decidueye's priority moves, and there are more threatening Z-Move sweepers in the tier such as Swords Dance Incineroar.
Decidueye (SS competitive strategy): Decidueye's fantastic STAB combo and offensive versatility make it a great wallbreaker in NU. Only a handful of Pokemon wall Decidueye's STAB attacks, and even fewer are fast enough that its teammates can't exploit them after U-turn uses or double switches. Furthermore, since Decidueye can use both physical and special sets to great success, finding defensive counterplay isn't so simple until you know its set. Despite these advantages, Decidueye isn't perfect, and its Speed is its most notable flaw. Even though its Shadow Sneak is strong when boosted, faster attackers like Talonflame and Drapion easily revenge kill it, with only the former being susceptible to Decidueye's priority attack. Decidueye also struggles in certain matchups, especially against Dark-types like Guzzlord, Scrafty, and Sneasel, since it's forced to use U-turn more often instead of wallbreak. Lastly, because there are so many great Grass-types in NU, Decidueye can sometimes be hard to justify using over other options. Spirit Shackle is preferred to Poltergeist because it can't be blocked by itemless foes, and Choice Band's power boost helps offset the lower Base Power. If you opt for Poltergeist, though, Spell Tag is the superior item so Decidueye can freely pivot with U-turn if an itemless Pokemon switches in. Long Reach prevents adverse contact effects like Rocky Helmet and Flame Body from harming Decidueye. An Adamant nature is preferred because Jolly offers minimal benchmarks worth meeting. Decidueye consistently draws in Dark-types like Guzzlord and Drapion, so provide it teammates like Sylveon, Diancie, and Silvally-Ground that can make use of Decidueye's U-turn support. You should also take advantage of Decidueye forcing damage onto such foes with late-game cleaners like Salazzle and Cosmic Power Xatu. Many fast Pokemon like Talonflame, Aerodactyl, and Sneasel can revenge kill Decidueye; pair it with defensive checks to them like Stakataka, Mudsdale, and Weezing. Swords Dance lets Decidueye 2HKO normally good defensive checks like Vileplume and Weezing with Spirit Shackle. Spell Tag gives Decidueye extra power even if it doesn't set up and makes picking off faster foes like Talonflame, Salazzle, and Passimian with Shadow Sneak easier. An Adamant nature is preferred because Jolly offers minimal benchmarks worth meeting. Certain Pokemon like Guzzlord, Sap Sipper Drampa, and Drapion completely wall Decidueye, and even Stakataka can be difficult to bypass, making teammates like Sylveon, Passimian, and Silvally-Ground useful to have. Passimian and Silvally-Ground can also lure in and remove Talonflame with Rock Slide. Since Decidueye can fulfill both the wallbreaker and sweeper roles, other Pokemon like Tauros, Sneasel, and Salazzle that can do the same are good teammates, overwhelming shared checks and ensuring one of them can sweep late-game. Leaf Storm's absurdly high-Base Power, especially when boosted by Overgrow, means it does great damage, even to special walls like Mantine, Snorlax, and Guzzlord. U-turn prevents safe switch-ins like Guzzlord and Drampa from costing Decidueye's team momentum. A Modest nature is preferred because Timid offers minimal benchmarks worth meeting. Decidueye consistently draws in Dark- and Normal-types like Guzzlord, Snorlax, and Drampa, making Fighting-types such as Passimian and Toxicroak premier teammates. Similarly, this set is a great lure for other common switch-ins like Stakataka and Weezing; pair it with Pokemon like Calm Mind Sylveon and Flame Charge Silvally-Ground that need these Pokemon weakened or removed before sweeping. Pivots like Talonflame, Silvally-Ground, and Inteleon that can get Decidueye in against Pokemon like Diancie, Mudsdale, and Gastrodon are great to have. Utility sets with Defog and bulk investment are useable, turning Decidueye into a good answer to foes like Silvally-Ground, Rotom-C, and Heliolisk. However, Dhelmise is usually the better option because its overall bulk and natural power are superior. Nasty Plot is an alternative setup set that can bypass even the sturdiest of special walls like Scrafty and Mantine, but this set exposes Decidueye's average Speed quite a bit, as it lacks a priority move. Decidueye's Flying-type coverage moves like Acrobatics, Brave Bird, and Hurricane have some use in immediately breaking past Grass- and Fighting-types like Tsareena, Vileplume, Scrafty, and Passimian, but its STAB moves still get the job done.
Decidueye (SV competitive strategy): Decidueye is an incredibly powerful physical attacker, using Swords Dance-boosted Spirit Shackle, Poltergeist, and Leaf Blade to do massive damage to opposing walls, such as Amoonguss, Registeel, and Gligar, and revenge killing faster foes like Munkidori and Chandelure with Shadow Sneak. It also serves as one of the few viable users of Defog in the tier, taking advantage of the fear its powerful physical sets create to find turns to clear entry hazards. Its typing allows it to switch in on common attackers like Paldean Tauros-W, Breloom, and Flygon, and it often finds turns to set up in front of common defensive Water-types like Gastrodon, Vaporeon, and Milotic. Its ability to throw out powerful attacks is only enhanced by Long Reach, which allows it to avoid the threats of Chandelure's Flame Body, Bellibolt's Static, and Rocky Helmet. Decidueye does struggle with its mediocre Speed though, particularly on offensive sets. Even Swords Dance-boosted Shadow Sneak does not often pick off neutral targets from full HP without Tera Ghost, leaving Decidueye open to being revenge killed by many faster and Ghost-immune foes such as Cinccino, Porygon-Z, and Tera Normal Toxtricity. Decidueye's STAB types are also walled by several common Pokemon, namely Overqwil, Alolan Muk, and Incineroar. Defog sets must also be careful of several Competitive and Defiant Pokemon, such as Kilowattrel, Galarian Articuno, Milotic, and Tornadus. Spirit Shackle lets Decidueye hit and trap foes without fear of missing, while +2 Poltergeist lets it potentially OHKO checks like Amoonguss after Stealth Rock damage. However, Poltergeist limits Decidueye's teammates' ability to utilize Knock Off, as it requires the foe to have an item. Shadow Sneak lets Decidueye pick off and revenge kill faster foes, particularly Ghost-weak ones like Chandelure, Hisuian Typhlosion, and Munkidori. Tera Ghost lets Shadow Sneak OHKO Inteleon, Kilowattrel, and, after Stealth Rock damage, Flamigo, while Tera Fairy and Water act defensively to give Decidueye a chance to set up in front of Dark-types like Scrafty and Fire-types like Incineroar, respectively. Decidueye appreciates teammates like Munkidori and Chandelure that are also checked by Dark- and Fire-types, since it can work together with these partners to wear down shared checks like Alolan Muk and Incineroar. Particularly when using Spirit Shackle over Poltergeist, entry hazard support from teammates like Froslass, Diancie, and Bronzong can be helpful to wear down checks and guarantee KOs. Backup physical attackers can work to overwhelm solid physical walls like Amoonguss and Bellibolt, so the Paldean Tauros formes, Toxicroak, and Flygon can support Decidueye very well. On top of that, they can capitalize on Pokemon that Decidueye might faint against like Incineroar, Overqwil, and Alolan Muk. Decidueye can occasionally find getting a turn to set up difficult, so teammates that facilitate opportunities, such as Encore users like Cinccino and Scream Tail and Memento Chandelure, can be very helpful. Choice Band- or Spell Tag-boosted Poltergeist provides the most immediate power, but it can miss and limits Decidueye's teammates' ability to use Knock Off. Spirit Shackle provides a completely accurate Ghost-type STAB move and allows Decidueye's teammates to use Knock Off more freely. U-turn allows Decidueye to pivot out on potential checks like Overqwil and Incineroar. Tera Ghost further boosts its powerful Ghost-type STAB moves, letting it 2HKO Gligar with Poltergeist. Tera Fairy and Tera Water work defensively to allow Decidueye to survive attacks from powerful Dark- and Fire-types, respectively, such as Scrafty and Chandelure. Decidueye requires teammates that can switch in on powerful Fire- and Dark-type attacks from foes like Chandelure and Incineroar, so Vaporeon, Milotic, and Diancie can be valuable. Other physical attackers like Flamigo, Flygon, and Paldean Tauros-W appreciate Decidueye's ability to weaken opposing physical walls like Amoongus and Bellibolt. Special attackers, particularly ones that can pivot like Munkidori and Kilowattrel, can also combine with Decidueye to repeatedly pivot on checks and wear them down. Decidueye does not resist Stealth Rock and is not immune to Spikes, so entry hazard removers like Avalugg, Altaria, and Scyther are appreciated to ensure Decidueye can repeatedly enter the field and threaten foes. Giga Drain, along with Roost, provides Decidueye with additional longevity, but Leaf Storm can provide immediate power to surprise opponents expecting physically offensive Decidueye sets. U-turn allows Decidueye to pivot on opposing Competitive Pokemon like Kilowattrel and Galarian Articuno that might otherwise take advantage of Defog, but Decidueye can also choose to run Shadow Ball to hit Grass-resistant Pokemon like Kilowattrel and Tornadus for neutral damage. With an Impish nature, Knock Off can be run as Decidueye's main attack, since it lets Decidueye threaten item-reliant Pokemon like Kilowattrel, Tornadus, and Incineroar that would otherwise easily take advantage of it. The given EV spread allows Decidueye to outspeed Adamant Incineroar, which otherwise threatens it with Knock Off. Tera Fairy allows Decidueye to resist Dark-type attacks from foes like Incineroar, Scrafty, and Toxicroak, as well as Flamigo's Scrappy Close Combat, while Tera Water protects it from Fire-types like Chandelure and Infernape. Tera Poison is an all-around solid defensive option, removing all of Decidueye's original weaknesses and specifically letting it resist Flamigo's Scrappy Close Combat and Poison-type attacks from foes like Alolan Muk. Decidueye requires teammates capable of checking Incineroar, as Defog lets it in for free. Vaporeon, Milotic, and Diancie resist Incineroar's STAB moves and can patch up Decidueye's weakness to Fire- and Flying-types like Chandelure and Kilowattrel. Entry hazard-weak teammates appreciate Decidueye's Defog, particularly Fire- and Flying-types like Choice Specs users such as Chandelure as well as Alolan Ninetales and itemless Tornadus. Decidueye also checks Paldean Tauros-W, which Water- and Fighting-weak Pokemon like Diancie, Gligar, Incineroar, and Porygon-Z appreciate. Decidueye can run Low Kick instead of Leaf Blade or Shadow Sneak in order to hit Incineroar, other Dark-types, and Registeel for super effective damage, but it loses either priority or its Grass-type STAB move in return. Decidueye can also run a special attacking set of Nasty Plot / Shadow Ball / Giga Drain, Leaf Storm, or Energy Ball / Roost or Tera Blast Ground, but this set can be easily revenge killed because it lacks priority.
Kleavor (SV competitive strategy): With a high Attack stat and access to Sharpness and Stone Axe, Kleavor is very consistent in dishing out great damage while setting up Stealth Rock. Moreover, with access to STAB U-turn, Kleavor can opt to run Choice Scarf sets, as it outspeeds common Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Basculegion-F and Gardevoir. Kleavor is a great lead for offensive teams, as its main utility in Stone Axe gives it an advantage over other Stealth Rock leads such as Terrakion and Azelf, which Taunt cripples. Kleavor also has Swords Dance, which allows it to not be as passive and one-dimensional as the other leads. U-turn also allows Kleavor to pivot out of defensive switch-ins such as Hippowdon, Jirachi, and Registeel and gain momentum for the team. However, Kleavor is rather frail defensively, and being weak to Stealth Rock hinders its ability to work as a momentum generator. Ultimately, as a lead, Kleavor has a low Speed stat compared to other leads, which makes it being prone to Iron Head from Jirachi and Rock Blast from Terrakion. Swords Dance threatens defensive leads such as Hippowdon and Gastrodon, and STAB X-Scissor will threaten to 2HKO them. This usually ends up with Hippowdon or Gastrodon weakened, which makes it easier for Kleavor's teammates to KO them. Close Combat allows Kleavor to hit Steel-types such as Hisuian Goodra, Empoleon, and Registeel. Trailblaze boosts Kleavor's Speed and makes it a threatening sweeper, and it is especially good against offensive teams, as they do not have a solid defensive backbone and often rely on outspeeding and KOing Kleavor. Focus Sash prevents Kleavor from being KOed by faster Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Basculegion-F and Stone Edge Terrakion. Tera Ghost is used to block Rapid Spin from Cyclizar, though Kleavor should rarely Terastallize due to the value Terastallization brings to its teammates. This is the standard lead Kleavor set on a hyper offense team. Common hyper offense teammates such as Terrakion, Bisharp, and Mimikyu appreciate Kleavor's ability to set up Stealth Rock reliably. These Pokemon will have an easier time sweeping due to Kleavor setting up Stealth Rock and weakening physical walls such as Hippowdon. Other hyper offense staples that are weak to Stealth Rock such as Weakness Policy Armarouge can struggle on teams with lead Kleavor, since Kleavor cannot prevent other leads such as Terrakion and Azelf from setting up Stealth Rock, making Maushold a great teammate due to having entry hazard control in Tidy Up, as well as being a strong setup sweeper. Choice Scarf Kleavor takes advantage of U-turn and its decent base Speed to be a hard-hitting pivot while also being able to set up entry hazards. Choice Scarf allows Kleavor to outspeed common Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Gardevoir and Basculegion-F. Other Choice Scarf users able to set up hazards do exist in RU, mainly Krookodile, but it has to decide whether to set up Stealth Rock or attack; Kleavor bypasses that due to having access to Stone Axe. U-turn allows Kleavor to pivot out of bad matchups such as Hippowdon and Chesnaught and gives the team momentum. Close Combat hits Steel-types such as Hisuian Goodra, Empoleon, and Registeel. Tera Fighting flips Kleavor's Stealth Rock weakness and lets Close Combat OHKO Empoleon, Krookodile, and Hisuian Goodra. Choice Scarf Kleavor fits on bulky offense teams and acts as one of the main momentum generators of the team. As a result, Pokemon that can take advantage of safe switch-ins are preferred teammates, such as Basculegion-F and Armarouge. Kleavor usually wants to use U-turn as the foe switches into Steel-type teammates such as Jirachi, Registeel, and Hisuian Goodra, and these teammates take advantage of the safe switch in as well as threaten them offensively. VoltTurn cores with Mienshao and Magnezone can take advantage of the aforementioned Steel-types as well as Chesnaught and Talonflame that tend to switch into Kleavor. Having access to entry hazard control is almost mandatory for Kleavor, as its weakness to Stealth Rock cripples its effectiveness. As a result, Pokemon such as Cyclizar, Noivern, and Talonflame are good partners. Pokemon such as Slowbro, Hippowdon, and Palossand that can deal with faster Choice Scarf users such as Jirachi and Mienshao are appreciated. Heavy-Duty Boots + Swords Dance is a good option for pivot Kleavor, as it mitigates the Stealth Rock weakness and makes Kleavor more offensively threatening. Tailwind is an option on lead sets, as Kleavor can set it up before fainting to threaten foes offensively, allowing naturally slow Pokemon such as Armarouge and Feraligatr be more threatening. Covert Cloak is also an option to avoid getting flinched by Iron Head Jirachi, as it is a main form of counterplay versus lead Kleavor hyper offense teams. One could also opt to run Choice Band, which works similar to Choice Scarf, but losing the ability to outspeed Choice Scarf Gardevoir, Basculegion-F, and common faster Pokemon such as Krookodile and Jirachi is unappealing. Tera Bug X-Scissor has a good chance to OHKO Amoonguss and Slowbro and can 2HKO Chesnaught.
Lokix (SV competitive strategy): Lokix uses First Impression to effectively remove offensive Pokemon like Ogerpon-C, Greninja, Latios, and Zarude. Tinted Lens prevents some of the aforementioned threats from Terastallizing to survive First Impression and lets Lokix still do considerable damage to Bug-resistant foes such as Thundurus-T. For example, Tera Bug First Impression will still be able to KO Tera Steel Latios after a bit of chip damage. Knock Off is good for punishing common switch-ins such as Skarmory, and Sucker Punch allows Lokix to pick off faster threats even after its first turn on the field. This can be important for many fast defensive Pokemon that can sponge a First Impression, like Tornadus-T. Tera Bug is crucial in order to effectively KO threats such as Excadrill and Thundurus-T. Heavy-Duty Boots is important, as it allows Lokix to come in multiple times even in the presence of Stealth Rock. An Adamant nature is used to maximize First Impression damage. Lokix fits very well on balance and offense structures, playing the important role of revenge killing many threats. Pokemon like Latios and Greninja appreciate Lokix using U-turn to safely bring them in versus Cobalion, Skarmory, and Heatran. Lokix enjoys being paired with Slowking, as Slowking is able to use Chilly Reception to safely bring Lokix in on Pokemon that threaten Slowking, like Zarude and Greninja. In return, Slowking can help handle Pokemon that Lokix struggles with, like Heatran and Keldeo. Lokix, in general, likes to pair with other pivots. Heavy-Duty Boots Thundurus-T and Tornadus-T are able to check Skarmory and Cobalion for Lokix. Defensive pivots such as Slowking and Rotom-W can check threats such as Tornadus-T for Lokix and bring it in on Pokemon like Zarude. Entry hazard setters, such as Skarmory and Gastrodon, appreciate Lokix's ability to remove foes' Heavy-Duty Boots, and they can check Pokemon like opposing Lokix, Revavroom, and Heatran.
Nihilego (SM competitive strategy): By virtue of its unique typing, great Special Attack and Speed, and vast movepool with coverage and utility, Nihilego carves a niche for itself in UU as a customizable offensive force whose tools can be tailored to its team's needs. Its access to Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes can allow it to function as a reliable offensive entry hazard setter, using its typing and coverage to threaten out many common entry hazard removers, though it also has the option of running moves such as Protect and Pain Split to more easily work around its checks. Thanks to its typing, coverage, and Speed, Nihilego can also utilize Choice Scarf to revenge kill several of the tier's threatening forces, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Altaria, Terrakion, and Celebi. Moreover, its excellent special bulk for an offensive Pokemon can allow it to sponge weaker or resisted special attacks well, take on Flying-types like Moltres and Togekiss, and blanket check foes like Gengar, Mega Manectric, and Choice Scarf Hydreigon if need be. Unfortunately, Nihilego is at times held back by its terrible physical bulk, which allows the tier's several faster physical threats, including Cobalion and Zeraora, to easily take advantage of it. This also leaves it vulnerable to Pursuit and powerful priority attacks, most notably Scizor's Bullet Punch. It's also unable to power through the tier's surplus of Ground- and Steel-types with its STAB moves alone, which allows most to tank a hit and KO Nihilego with super effective attacks. Nihilego can also struggle to break through a few key defensive Pokemon in the metagame, such as Blissey and Mega Steelix, compromising its wallbreaking capabilities. Lastly, while Nihilego's Speed and typing provide plentiful perks, they also leave it outrun and overwhelmed by a few tier staples, such as Terrakion, Latias, and Cobalion. Thunderbolt provides coverage against troublesome bulky Water-types such as Empoleon, Slowbro, and Tentacruel. With Electrium Z, it turns into a powerful Gigavolt Havoc capable of OHKOing the aforementioned Water-types after some chip damage while heavily damaging Steel-types like Scizor, Bisharp, and Cobalion. Grass Knot nails various Ground-types that could otherwise wall Nihilego, like Krookodile, Hippowdon, and Swampert. Hidden Power Ice allows Nihilego to keep entry hazards up against Gligar and is also its strongest attack to punish Nidoqueen and Nidoking, which otherwise sponge anything Nihilego can throw at them and can absorb its Toxic Spikes. Power Gem is an option over Grass Knot, sacrificing coverage on Ground-types for a STAB attack capable of hitting Fire-types and Ice-types like Rotom-H, Kyurem, and Chandelure super effectively while hitting Scizor harder than Thunderbolt. It can also hit Flying-types harder than Thunderbolt, KOing Moltres and Crobat in one hit. Nihilego can set Stealth Rock as it forces switches, punishing the opponent's switches with chip damage. Protect can be used in tandem with Black Sludge to scout for moves on Choice-locked Pokemon, like Choice Band Scizor and Terrakion and Choice Scarf Krookodile, while passively restoring Nihilego's HP. Toxic Spikes can also be set on forced switches, racking up poison damage on foes as they come in. Thunder can be run in place of Thunderbolt to more easily power through Gigavolt Havoc's targets, requiring notably less chip damage to OHKO Empoleon and Tentacruel while always OHKOing Bisharp after Stealth Rock. However, it has limited use outside of this due to its shaky accuracy despite its higher power. Black Sludge should be run as Nihilego's item to improve its longevity and when used with Protect it can passively restore its HP as it scouts foes' attacks. Electrium Z lets Nihilego lure and KO several Water- and Steel-types, such as Tentacruel, Empoleon, Doublade, and Bisharp, punishing them with heavy damage. Life Orb is another option if another teammate is running a Z-Move, putting power behind Nihilego's moves and notably allowing it to OHKO Primarina with Sludge Wave and 2HKO Empoleon with Thunderbolt. It can complicate Nihilego's entry hazard setting capabilities by cutting into its longevity, however. Beast Boost allows Nihilego to increase its Special Attack upon netting KOs. An EV spread of 80 HP / 176 SpA / 252 Spe allows Nihilego to boost its Speed instead of its Special Attack with Beast Boost, though this can notably cut into its damage output at times, preventing it from reliably OHKOing Swampert with Grass Knot, for instance. If Nihilego is running Stealth Rock or Toxic Spikes, it should attempt to set them early-game in order to immediately apply pressure to the opposing team. It should do this against special attackers that can't hit it hard, like Moltres, Mega Manectric, and Rotom-H, or against passive defensive Pokemon like Alomomola and Florges. After setting entry hazards, Nihilego should capitalize on its good coverage and power to try punching holes in opposing teams. Later on in the game, when its checks have been removed or weakened, Nihilego can try cleaning up thanks to its decent Speed and Beast Boost, especially if it is running the investment necessary to receive a Speed boost. If Protect is being run in the fourth slot, it should be used against potential Choice item Pokemon like Scizor, Krookodile, and Hydreigon to scout for their attack. This also allows Nihilego to passively restore health with Black Sludge to better handle Pokemon like Togekiss and Mega Manectric. If Toxic Spikes is being used, Nihilego should only set one layer against offensive teams, as most Pokemon on these teams won't stay in play long, making consistent poison damage an easy method of quickly chipping them down. Against defensive teams, however, two layers should be set in order to rack up poison damage over time against the passive Pokemon often found on these builds. Electrium Z is best activated against offensive Steel-types and bulky Water-types, such as Bisharp, Mega Aggron, and Mega Slowbro, as otherwise these Pokemon would be able to tank a hit and pressure Nihilego. Prediction is important in securing KOs against Pokemon that could tank a hit and KO Nihilego. For instance, if a Ground-type like Hippowdon or Krookodile is expected to switch in, Nihilego should try nabbing them with Grass Knot on the switch in order to secure the 2HKO without taking any damage itself. Nihilego shouldn't stay in on physical attackers that it can't outrun or KO, such as Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Steelix, and Mega Aggron, due to its awful physical bulk. It should also look out for powerful priority attacks from foes like Scizor, Bisharp, and Crawdaunt, Choice Scarf users like Infernape and Krookodile, and Pursuit from the aforementioned Scizor, Bisharp, and Krookodile. Nihilego fits well onto several different archetypes, ranging from hyper offense to balance, thanks to the useful offensive and defensive utility it provides to teams it's placed on. If Nihilego is running Stealth Rock or Toxic Spikes, setup sweepers like Latias, Mega Altaria, and Lucario appreciate its ability to chip down opposing teams. The latter two appreciate its ability to deal with Moltres as well. Wallbreakers like Mamoswine, Crawdaunt, and Volcanion also enjoy its entry hazard support for this reason. If Nihilego wishes to forego entry hazards for Protect, other setters like Mega Aggron, Cobalion, and Hippowdon, which can additionally support Nihilego with Sand Stream, can let it more comfortably do so while also allowing Nihilego to more easily muscle past opposing Pokemon. Steel-type checks like Infernape, Suicune, and Moltres can weaken or entirely remove a few particularly troublesome answers to Nihilego, such as Mega Aggron, Mega Steelix, and Klefki. Ground-type answers, such as Tsareena, Celebi, and Primarina, can also be important for easing Nihilego's matchups against them while also potentially allowing it to more comfortably run Power Gem. Pivots like Scizor and Hydreigon can bring Nihilego in more easily, since it at times won't be able to comfortably come into play on account of its poor Defense. Pokemon capable of tanking a few physical attacks, like Gligar, Doublade, and Cobalion, can help Nihilego more easily circumvent its physical frailty. In return, Nihilego can reliably come in on a few troublesome special attackers for the aforementioned teammates to face, such as Mega Manectric and Celebi. Pokemon that appreciate a sturdy check to Fairy-types, such as Hydreigon, Latias, and Mega Altaria, benefit from Nihilego's support. Infernape particularly pairs up well with Nihilego, appreciating its ability to check Flying-types and threaten Fairy-types like Mega Altaria and Primarina, checking Steel-types for it in return, and benefiting immensely from its Toxic Spikes support if being used. Specially frail Pokemon can also benefit from Nihilego's ability to blanket check a few important special attackers, meaning the likes of Bisharp and Slowbro will often appreciate it as a teammate. Grass Knot allows Nihilego to revenge kill the likes of Terrakion, Krookodile, and Mega Sharpedo, though the former two often require some chip damage to KO. It is also Nihilego's best source of damage against Mega Blastoise, Suicune, and Ground-types like Mamoswine and Hippowdon. Thunderbolt damages bulky Water-types like Alomomola, Empoleon, and Tentacruel more than any of Nihilego's other attacks while letting it revenge kill offensive Starmie after some chip damage. It also adequately damages offensive Steel-types like Lucario and Bisharp, 2HKOing both after minor chip damage. Alternatively, Dazzling Gleam allows Nihilego to KO Hydreigon in one hit while dealing heavy damage to wallbreakers like Heracross and Latias, being able to reliably 2HKO the latter after Stealth Rock damage. Toxic Spikes can be used to allow Nihilego to set an entry hazard as an opposing Pokemon that walls it switches in, punishing the opposing team with poison damage. It can also try bluffing a hazard setting set, though this is often a situational and risky strategy, and the moves themselves cost coverage. Choice Scarf allows Nihilego to function as a revenge killer, capable of removing fast threats like Mega Aerodactyl, +1 Mega Altaria, and Mega Beedrill. Beast Boost increases Nihilego's threat level by boosting its Special Attack every time it KOes a foe. This set should be used to revenge kill various tier sweepers, such as +1 Mega Altaria, Celebi, and Togekiss, after they've sustained some residual damage. It also revenge kills faster threats like Mega Aerodactyl, Mega Manectric, and Zeraora after some prior damage. Since Nihilego often can't directly switch into most of the Pokemon it revenge kills, it will have to come into play as its targeted sweeper is setting up, after a teammate has fainted, or through the support of a pivot, though the first strategy is by far the riskiest. Nihilego can, however, come in on several special attackers that can't hit it super effectively, such as Gengar, Mega Manectric, Moltres, and Rotom-H, as well as passive attackers like Alomomola and Sylveon. Due to Choice Scarf locking Nihilego into one attack, it is important to predict properly so as not to provide the opponent free turns. Nailing Ground-types on the switch with Grass Knot and hitting bulky Water-types with Thunderbolt are examples of how to accomplish this. Nihilego must also look out for Pursuit from Pokemon like Krookodile and Pokemon that can take advantage of it to set up, like Latias and Cobalion. Nabbing these foes with a super effective attack on the switch or, in Cobalion's case, doubling out of play or switching out as it begins to set up is the best way for Nihilego to minimize any potential harm done to its team. Nihilego should be wary of priority moves from Pokemon like Bisharp, Scizor, Lucario, and Crawdaunt, as its poor Defense will cause it to sustain major damage from their attacks, which will complicate its role. This set is a comfortable fit on offensive teams in need of a fast revenge killer. Setup sweepers and cleaners, like Swords Dance Scizor and Mega Sharpedo, appreciate Nihilego's ability to revenge kill opposing sweepers for them to more easily do their job late-game. Pokemon with poor or shaky special bulk, like Doublade and Mega Slowbro, also value Nihilego as a teammate thanks to its ability to blanket check many of the tier's special attackers. Pokemon in need of Fairy-type checks as teammates, like Hydreigon and Mega Altaria, often welcome Nihilego's ability to offensively threaten most of them. Pokemon weak to Flying-types, like Infernape and Celebi, and most Fighting-types, enjoy Nihilego as a teammate as well. Entry hazard setters such as Cobalion, Krookodile, and Klefki are helpful teammates for Nihilego, allowing it to more easily power through foes thanks to the additional chip damage. Nihilego also appreciates Steel-type checks like Moltres, Volcanion, and Infernape for their ability to weaken some of this set's sturdier switch-ins, like Cobalion and Mega Aggron. Ground-immune Pokemon can also be important due to Nihilego's weakness to Pokemon like Gligar and Nidoking, making Hydreigon, Latias, and Togekiss worthwhile teammates. Powerful wallbreakers like Terrakion and Primarina can weaken foes for Nihilego and help circumvent its occasional power problems. Pivots reliably bring Nihilego into play if its opportunities to switch in are limited, making Hydreigon, Gligar, and Mega Manectric good options for partners. Pursuit trappers like Bisharp and Scizor can weaken or remove a few troublesome Pokemon for Nihilego to match up against at times, such as Latias. Nihilego is a fantastic user of Stealth Rock, which further justifies its usefulness on stall teams by providing a lot of utility and role compression. Protect allows Nihilego to scout for opposing moves such as Choice-locked moves from Pokemon like Hydreigon and Pursuit from Scizor and Krookodile to act accordingly, which is vital because it lacks the Defense to survive being trapped more than once. Protect also provides Nihilego with a way to gain an extra turn of recovery from Black Sludge to help improve its longevity. Pain Split is an option to provide Nihilego with a more efficient way to recover lost health than from the passive recovery of Black Sludge that is also a useful tool to punish common switch-ins like Empoleon, Mega Steelix, and Mega Aggron, which lack reliable recovery. Pain Split also drastically improves Nihilego's matchup against opposing stall teams, as it can recover a lot of health against foes like Blissey and Alomomola and cripple them in the process. Power Gem allows Nihilego to hit stallbreakers such as Kyurem, Chandelure, and Gengar to potentially remove or severely weaken them. Power Gem also does a decent amount of damage to Scizor, which would otherwise look to switch in freely, on the switch. Thunderbolt can be used over Power Gem to give Nihilego the coverage to punish bulky Water-types like Empoleon and Tentacruel more than Power Gem would, as they are common entry hazard removers that may look to remove Nihilego's hazards or punish it with their Water-type STAB moves. Thunderbolt also hits almost every Steel-type such as Cobalion, Klefki, and Doublade harder than Power Gem can, preventing them from freely pivoting in on Nihilego. Toxic Spikes is an option over Stealth Rock to cripple and slowly chip away at foes; however, Nihilego should primarily be used as a Stealth Rock user, as it provides a lot of role compression in addition to Toxic Spikes being an inconsistent form of entry hazards due to being absorbed by Poison-types. Therefore, Toxic Spikes should only be used on stall teams that greatly appreciate the utility Nihilego can provide and already feature a dedicated Stealth Rock user. Black Sludge is vital for Nihilego to have a passive form of recovery to increase its longevity. It works exceptionally well in conjunction with Protect to scout for moves such as Pursuit while providing it with a free turn to recover some lost health. Nihilego should be used to give stall teams a switch-in to Flying-type stallbreakers like Togekiss by virtue of its typing, as well as absorbing Toxic Spikes, which can be a huge nuisance for stall teams. Nihilego's good natural Special Defense allows it to pivot into special threats like Gengar, Mega Houndoom, and Chandelure, which Blissey, the usual dedicated special wall on stall teams, struggles to check. Nihilego should capitalize on its ability to pivot into these threats for a free opportunity to set up Stealth Rock; however, it should only aim to do so against unboosted targets, as it doesn't appreciate taking a strong hit, especially if they are common Z-Move users. Nihilego should take advantage of its Speed tier to force out stallbreakers that most stall teams have issues pressuring effectively outside of status, such as Kyurem, Celebi, and Mega Altaria, with its STAB combination. Protect should be used to scout what common Choice item users like Scizor and Krookodile lock themselves into to switch safely or attack them. This is important due to them both being very common Pursuit users, which are a huge detriment to Nihilego's ability to stay healthy enough to check the threats it needs to. Protect can also be used liberally to gain a free turn of Black Sludge recovery to be healthy enough to handle Pokemon like Gengar and Togekiss; however, Nihilego should be careful not to provide Pokemon like Terrakion and Scizor too many free turns to set up in doing so. If utilizing Pain Split, Nihilego can be played more aggressively when it comes to switching into the threats it can handle, as it can recover off most of its lost health at a later point. Nihilego must avoid losing its Black Sludge via Knock Off, as this is detrimental to its recovery, even if it has Pain Split. Nihilego must fear strong physical attackers like Infernape, Bisharp, and Krookodile, as they can punish Nihilego due to its pitiful Defense rendering it unable to take a hit reliably, and the latter two are also common Knock Off users. Nihilego should also not stay in on common priority users like Scizor and the aforementioned Bisharp, which can easily revenge kill it. This Nihilego set should primarily be used on stall teams by virtue of its combination of defensive and offensive utility against common stallbreakers while being able to offer role compression with Stealth Rock. Blissey is the usual staple on stall teams and works fantastically in tandem with Nihilego, as it is able to cure Nihilego of any status ailments with Heal Bell and provide Wish support. Blissey can also handle Psychic-types like Latias and check offensive Water-types like Volcanion and Primarina, which Nihilego cannot pivot into nor reliably revenge kill without sufficient chip damage on them. In return, Nihilego provides Blissey with an answer to special threats like Gengar and Chandelure. Alomomola is another great partner due to its ability to check premier physical threats like Scizor and Mega Aerodactyl for Nihilego thanks to its ability Regenerator while also being able to heal Nihilego with Wish support. Nihilego can give a lot of Pokemon opportunities to set up by using Protect to scout or regain health, so Unaware users like Quagsire and Pyukumuku make fantastic partners to better switch into setup Pokemon like Bisharp, Terrakion, and Cobalion. In return, Nihilego is able to switch into and absorb Toxic Spikes for them, which helps prevent their susceptibility of being worn down by status. Mega Altaria is a fantastic partner, as it can provide entry hazard removal in the form of Defog and Heal Bell support to cure Nihilego of status conditions and act as a strong Knock Off sponge to prevent Nihilego from getting crippled and easily worn down. Mega Altaria also switches into many of the tier's Fighting-types like Infernape and Heracross, as well as potentially luring in and KOing Scizor with Flamethrower for Nihilego. Gligar works exceptionally well with Nihilego, as it can check Fighting- and Steel-types like Terrakion, Cobalion, and Mega Aggron, which Nihilego is unable to punish effectively without Thunderbolt. Gligar is also able to remove hazards for Nihilego and is immune to Toxic Spikes, which takes pressure off Nihilego risking switching in to absorb them. Steel-types like defensive Scizor, Doublade, and Mega Aggron that have issues handling threats like Moltres and Chandelure appreciate Nihilego's ability to check and remove them. In return, these Steel-types can handle Pokemon like Latias, Mew, and Mega Aerodactyl that threaten Nihilego, and Doublade can also Pursuit trap said threats. Passho Berry can prevent Nihilego from being revenge killed by Aqua Jet from Crawdaunt while also giving it an easier time removing Water-types like Primarina, Empoleon, and Tentacruel. Choice Specs turns Nihilego into a formidable wallbreaker with great coverage, though this makes it easier to reliably revenge kill, as it doesn't particularly enjoy being locked into any of its attacks and has a slightly exploitable Speed tier. Hidden Power Fire covers the omnipresent Scizor, though since it already takes healthy damage from Power Gem and Gigavolt Havoc, it often isn't worth the trouble.
Nihilego (SS competitive strategy): Nihilego stands out as a great utility Pokémon that also boasts high offensive stats. Its good STAB combination hits key Pokemon such as Thundurus-T, Salamence, Tangrowth, and Primarina super effectively. It has important resistances like Flying, Fairy, and Fire; its Flying resistance and high Special Defense in particular are appreciated by teams that struggle with Flying-types like Moltres and Togekiss. Nihilego is an amazing Stealth Rock setter, as its resistances give very good matchups against Defoggers such as Salamence, Moltres, and Mandibuzz. Its Knock Off is useful for common switch-ins like Chansey, Scizor, Excadrill, and Celesteela. It can use Meteor Beam as well to boost its Special Attack and become a fierce sweeper. Its unique Speed tier puts it ahead of Salamence, Thundurus-T, and Moltres, and after a Speed boost from Beast Boost, it only falls behind Choice Scarf Zarude. However, its weaknesses and horrid Defense stat leave it vulnerable to Pokemon such as Hippowdon, Cobalion, and Keldeo, and priority from the likes of Conkeldurr, Azumarill, and Scizor easily shuts it down. It lacks room for coverage for Pokemon like Nidoking, and it just cannot get past checks like Jirachi and Excadrill. Nihilego's typing allows it to switch into a majority of the tier's Defoggers, including Salamence, Mandibuzz, and Moltres, and set Stealth Rock. Power Gem threatens many Defoggers and hits neutral targets Sludge Bomb can't, like Galarian Slowbro, Scizor, Skarmory, and Celesteela. Sludge Bomb threatens Pokemon such as Tangrowth and Primarina. Sludge Bomb poisons are helpful for crippling checks like Swampert. Grass Knot nails Hippowdon and Swampert attempting to switch in, though they need a fair bit of chip damage on them. Knock Off cripples checks to Nihilego like Chansey and Celesteela. It's also great for removing Heavy-Duty Boots from Defoggers. Black Sludge mitigates entry hazards and chip damage. The given EV spread and a Timid nature make Speed Nihilego's highest stat for Beast Boost, letting it outspeed revenge killers like Keldeo, Zarude, and Azelf. This set fits on every playstyle except hyper offense. Nihilego's team appreciates its good defensive typing and Knock Off, and its offensive capabilities are valuable for removing threats like Primarina and Salamence. Stall in particular appreciates Nihilego's good matchup against Nasty Plot Togekiss and Thundurus-T. Skarmory is an amazing partner for Nihilego, forming an entry hazard stacking core with it and checking major threats like Excadrill, Hippowdon, and Zarude. In return, Nihilego beats threats to Skarmory like Moltres and Thundurus-T. Wallbreakers like Thundurus-T, Mamoswine, and Conkeldurr love Nihilego setting up Stealth Rock and weakening their checks like Assault Vest Tangrowth, Celesteela, and Amoonguss. Chansey completely walls this set even after having its Eviolite removed, so these wallbreakers can also take care of it. Pivots like Slowking, Azelf, and Zarude can bring in Nihilego to set Stealth Rock and wallbreak. Salamence and Rotom-H deal with Steel-types that threaten Nihilego, like Scizor and Cobalion. Meteor Beam is Nihilego's most important move, boosting Special Attack and muscling past checks like Celesteela once they're chipped. Sludge Wave hits tier staples like Primarina, Tangrowth, and Hydreigon. Thunderbolt allows Nihilego to hit Steel-types like Jirachi and Cobalion neutrally and other checks like Celesteela and Slowking super effectively. Power Gem can be used in place of Thunderbolt for a more reliable hit on Pokemon like Mandibuzz, Salamence, and Thundurus-T. Grass Knot deals with Ground-types like Hippowdon, Swampert, and Quagsire. Pain Split can be used to give Nihilego some recovery, though the lack of coverage creates more issues. Power Herb is required for Meteor Beam. The given EV spread and a Timid nature make Speed Nihilego's highest stat for Beast Boost, letting it outspeed revenge killers like Keldeo and Azelf. This set fits on hyper offense teams, where Nihilego can KO weakened checks like Celesteela with Meteor Beam to boost both its Speed and Special Attack. Entry hazard setters like Krookodile, Scolipede, and Excadrill help Nihilego by weakening some of its checks, like Nidoking and Celesteela. Keldeo and Belly Drum Azumarill are extremely strong wallbreakers that can punch holes for Nihilego to sweep late-game, destroying Chansey, Celesteela, and Excadrill. Secondary sweepers like Gyarados and Scizor can break past or dent Nidoqueen and Steel-types like Jirachi, Aegislash, and Celesteela. In return, Nihilego can remove Thundurus-T. Protect scouts Choice-locked foes like Zygarde-10%, letting Nihilego switch to the appropriate teammate, but is hard to fit over the very valuable Knock Off. Toxic Spikes is a secondary entry hazard option that weakens defensive staples like Swampert and cripples Substitute users such as Primarina. However, Poison-types remove it and a large portion of the metagame is immune to it, like Salamence, Celesteela, and Scizor. A Choice Scarf set with Power Gem / Sludge Bomb / Thunderbolt / Grass Knot lets Nihilego clean through teams and revenge kill Pokemon like Crobat and other Choice Scarf users like Hydreigon, but Choice-locked Nihilego is vulnerable to Pokemon like Scizor and Azumarill. Pain Split can be considered as a form of recovery on the utility set, but it is very unreliable due to Nihilego's high HP and can only be used against special attackers that can't hurt it much.
Nihilego (SV competitive strategy): Nihilego serves as an incredible Choice Scarf user for Poison teams thanks to its vast movepool and strong Special Attack. Power Gem deals with Flying- and Fire-types such as Tornadus-T, Mega Charizard Y, and Volcarona. Grass Knot targets Ground-types attempting to take on Nihilego's Power Gem such as Hippowdon, Swampert, and Mamoswine. Alternatively, Dazzling Gleam deals with Dragon- and Dark-types like Kommo-o, Hydreigon, and Mega Sableye. Thunderbolt threatens Water-types like Toxapex, Urshifu-R, and Keldeo. Hidden Power Ice removes the Landorus formes for Poison teams along with dealing significant damage to Garchomp and Dragonite. However, Sludge Wave threatens Fairy- and Grass-types like Tapu Lele, Tapu Bulu, and Ogerpon-C. Nidoking serves as an excellent special attacking complement, being able to remove Steel-types that wall Nihilego such as non-Air Balloon Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Gholdengo. Sneasler can help to break through problematic special walls such as Blissey and Hisuian Goodra thanks to its powerful Close Combat, and in return, it appreciates Nihilego beating physical walls like Toxapex and Great Tusk. Mega Venusaur helps to deal with Water- and Ground-types that Nihilego cannot handle such as Barraskewda, Mega Swampert, and Iron Treads. Crobat possesses a necessary Ground immunity and is able to come in on the likes of Clodsire and Excadrill along with being able to check Mega Gallade for Nihilego with its powerful Brave Bird. Alolan Muk can use Pursuit to trap and eliminate problematic Psychic- and Ghost-type threats for Nihilego like Deoxys-S, Tapu Lele, and Blacephalon while also removing Choice Scarf from foes such as Greninja, allowing for Nihilego to outspeed them. Galarian Slowking can safely pivot in Nihilego with Chilly Reception, as well as setting up Future Sight to pressure Nihilego's checks like Iron Hands and Clodsire. Toxapex can safely come in on priority moves such as Scizor's Bullet Punch and Mimikyu's Shadow Sneak and safely handle them thanks to Scald. With a high capability to end games by potentially getting multiple stat boosts with no passivity, Nihilego is a potent sweeper for Rock teams. As an offensive Grass-type check, Sludge Wave hits Grass-types such as Celebi and Tapu Bulu. Thunderbolt complements its coverage to hit foes such as Corviknight and Toxapex, and Grass Knot stops Nihilego from being walled by Ground-types such as Great Tusk and Gastrodon. The first EV spread ensures that Beast Boost triggers on Nihilego's Speed stat, easing cleaning against offensive teams, particularly Water teams because Mega Swampert is outsped by Nihilego after a boost and Sticky Web support. The second EV spread is also an option to instead handle better the matchup against more defensive teams by boosting its Special Attack instead, OHKOing Ursaluna with Grass Knot at +1 and Toxapex and Celesteela with Thunderbolt at +2 after Stealth Rock damage. Entry hazards from Shuckle and Mega Diancie better Nihilego's consistency at sweeping, with Shuckle's Sticky Web reducing Nihilego's reliance on a Speed boost from its ability, allowing it to outspeed foes such as Ogerpon-W and Choice Scarf Tapu Lele. Shuckle's Stealth Rock and Mega Diancie's Spikes weaken foes to put them into KO range for Nihilego, OHKOing utility Great Tusk with Grass Knot and 2HKOing Kommo-o with Sludge Wave after Stealth Rock damage. Ogerpon-C can break past bulky Ground-types Nihilego can't easily get past such as Gliscor, Clodsire, and Garchomp. Nihilego's poor physical bulk leaves it vulnerable to priority from foes such as Mega Scizor and Azumarill; Hisuian Arcanine and Ogerpon-C can offensively check such foes.
Durant (BW competitive strategy): and Magneton. Thunder Fang hits Poliwrath, Qwilfish, and Alomomola, Psychic-types of the tier, such as Lilligant, Uxie, and Mesprit. Steel-types, such as Steelix, Escavalier, Ferroseed, and Magneton. Stone Edge destroys Moltres and puts a heavy dent in Entei and Sigilyph.
Durant (XY competitive strategy): With an exceptional Speed tier, Durant is able to outrun key threats such as Mienshao and Cobalion while also Speed tying with Heliolisk. Having access to Hustle, Durant's already solid Attack is buffed massively, giving it grand wallbreaking potential. Durant also has access to Hone Claws, which not only raises its already high Attack, but raises the accuracy of its moves, removing the appalling downside of Hustle. This is backed up with its fantastic typing not only offensively but also defensively, as Durant's typing has only one weakness, one immunity, and many resistances. However, Durant's decent physical bulk and typing is let down by a very poor HP stat and pitiful special bulk, meaning that even resisted hits will do a hefty chunk to it. Durant's typing also leaves it horribly weak to Fire-type attacks, which are quite common on Pokemon such as Entei and Infernape. Hustle also means that the accuracy of all of Durant's attacks will be lowered to 80% at best without a Hone Claws boost, which means any one of its attacks could miss at a crucial moment. Iron Head hits astonishingly hard due to its decent Base Power and the boosts provided by Hustle and Life Orb or Choice Band. X-Scissor hits common Dark-types such as Hydreigon and Krookodile without having to resort to the stat-lowering Superpower. Rock Slide can hit Flying- and Fire-types such as Mandibuzz and Chandelure on the predicted switch, although staying in on any of these is not recommended. Thunder Fang is another option to hit bulky Water-types such as Suicune, Vaporeon, and Alomomola for acceptable damage. Superpower hits Steel-types such as Mega Aggron, Empoleon, and Forretress, as well as Snorlax, although the stat decrease will most likely cause Durant to switch out. Hustle boosts Durant's Attack to tremendous levels at the cost of slight accuracy loss, as Swarm and Truant range from being extremely situational to downright detrimental. 252 Attack EVs allow Durant to hit as hard as possible with its attacks, while a Jolly nature and 252 Speed EVs allow it to outspeed a good portion of the UU metagame and Speed tie with non-Choice Scarf Heliolisk. Life Orb gives Durant more power to its attacks with slight recoil each turn, but it allows Durant to have the freedom of switching between its moves. Choice Band removes the recoil effect and gives more wallbreaking power than Life Orb; however, Durant is unable to switch moves while Choice Band is equipped, meaning it can be taken advantage of easier. Use Durant's decent physical bulk and exceptional typing to its advantages, as, even with its mediocre HP stat, it is able to safely check Pokemon such as Mega Beedrill, Florges, Aromatisse, and Cresselia. However, it's generally difficult to switch Durant in to most offensive Pokemon, as they take a huge chunk out of its health, so, against offensive teams, it is safer to get a free switch from a teammate. Iron Head is a generally safe move to spam, as few Pokemon resist it and it hits incredibly hard. Be wary of Durant's low Special Defense, as common offensive Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Hydreigon can OHKO even with non-super effective moves after Stealth Rock damage. Don't be hasty by keeping Durant on the field when a defensive Pokemon such as Empoleon or Suicune is facing it, as risking a burn from Scald usually isn't worth the result, as status will leave Durant crippled for the remainder of the battle. Pokemon that can switch into Fire-type attacks such as Arcanine, Entei, and Suicune can easily switch into moves that Durant would normally have to avoid. If Durant is not running Thunder Fang, Pokemon such as Rotom-C, Mega Sceptile, and Shaymin can deal with bulky Water-type Pokemon that Durant would do laughable damage to. Stealth Rock from Pokemon such as Rhyperior, which also shares decent type synergy, helps Durant wear down its checks easier, thanks to the small amount of chip damage the target will take from each switch in. Hone Claws boosts Durant's already decent Attack to substantial levels while also resolving the lower accuracy from its ability Hustle. Iron Head not only has a chance to flinch the target, but it also hits Rock-, Ice-, and Fairy-types for super effective damage. X-Scissor is Durant's secondary STAB attack, hitting Pokemon such as Krookodile and Hydreigon without having to resort to using the stat-detrimental Superpower. Superpower hits bulky Steel-type Pokemon such as Mega Aggron, Empoleon, and Cobalion while also hitting Snorlax for heavy damage, which would otherwise take little damage from Durant's other attacks. Hustle is Durant's best ability, as, thanks to Hone Claws, Hustle gives Durant a large Attack boost while generally ignoring the accuracy drop thanks to the boosts. 252 Attack EVs allow Durant to deal as much damage as possible with its physical attacks, and a Jolly nature allows it to outspeed Mienshao and Speed tie with Heliolisk. Thanks to Hone Claws boosting Durant's attack, an Adamant nature is not needed. Life Orb gives Durant extremely high power behind its attacks while inflicting slight recoil per turn; however, Lum Berry can be used for a one-time immunity to burn and paralysis. Durant sets up Hone Claws best on Pokemon that cannot harm it easily, such as Mega Beedrill, Florges, Snorlax, and Escavalier; however, do not be risky by switching Durant into attacks, as even certain resisted attacks do large amounts of damage. Be aware that without a Hone Claws boost prior to attacking, each move has a dreadful 20% chance to miss due to Hustle, and that can cleanly stop a sweep and turn the battle around in the opponent's favor. Severely weaken Durant's checks and counters, as Durant has somewhat low bulk, being worn down extremely fast due to possible Life Orb and entry hazard damage, and, because it has no form of reliable recovery, it will most likely not get another attempt at sweeping the opposing team. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Rhyperior, Cobalion, and Krookodile give Durant chip damage on the opposing Pokemon as they try to switch in, giving it an easier time attempting to sweep. Pivots such as Mega Beedrill and Rotom-H can U-turn or Volt Switch into Durant, possibly giving it an opportunity to set up a Hone Claws. Pokemon that absorb Fire-type attacks such as Arcanine, Chandelure, and Tentacruel can easily take advantage of a possible Fire-type attack aimed at Durant. Dual screens support makes Durant much bulkier and gives it an easier time attempting to set up. Thunder Wave is an option to cripple opposing Pokemon such as Chandelure and Cobalion that attempt to switch in, but Durant has a hard time fitting it onto a moveslot. Wide Lens can be used to rid Durant of Hustle's accuracy drop. Agility boosts Durant's Speed to massive levels, allowing it to outspeed the entire metagame and take many faster Pokemon by surprise. Substitute can be used, allowing Durant to dodge possible status conditions while sacrificing a slight amount of Durant's HP. Crunch can surprise Doublade and Jellicent switch-ins and do a large amount of damage to both. Choice Scarf can be used to boost Durant's Speed; however, it doesn't hit as hard as it needs to on the majority of its targets.
Durant (SM competitive strategy): On paper, Durant appears to have all the tools to make it a formidable wallbreaker, with good Speed and Attack, access to Hustle, and Hone Claws to boost Attack and make up for the accuracy issues arising from Hustle. Additionally, good coverage combined with a good offensive typing theoretically let it threaten common defensive archetypes relying on traditional Steel-type checks like Cobalion and Rotom-H, setting it apart from Scizor. However, Durant's bad defensive stats and good, but not great, Speed tier leave it vulnerable to faster threats like Mega Manectric and common Choice Scarf users like Togekiss, and it is unable to perform tasks typically assigned to Steel-types, such as being able to pivot into resisted attacks from prominent threats like Celebi. These factors combined with the massive accuracy issues arising from Hustle while unboosted leave it outclassed by other more reliable Steel-type setup users with a better ability to threaten those faster Pokemon with priority, like Scizor and Lucario, or those with more defensive utility, like Cobalion. Durant aims to be used as a wallbreaker that can use its immense power, above average Speed, and good coverage to break past traditional answers to Steel-types like Rotom-H and Doublade after it comes in off a teammate's sacrifice or pivoting move like Volt Switch, which is mandated due to its poor defenses. Scizor simply does this better, though, as more offensive teams can utilize Swords Dance sets instead to pressure the same checks while also dealing with the faster threats such as Choice Scarf Krookodile and Hydreigon much more easily than Durant ever could due to Scizor's strong Bullet Punch. Other options like Mega Steelix and Bisharp are also better than Durant, as they can still wallbreak while being able to switch into and threaten out foes that Durant cannot, like Dragonium Z Latias.
Durant (SS competitive strategy): Durant has the unique combination of Hustle, First Impression, and a solid Speed stat, making it seem appealing as a niche wallbreaker and revenge killer, It's able to revenge kill common Pokemon like Nihilego and Cobalion, as well as OHKOing faster threats like Azelf, Choice Scarf Hydreigon, and Zygarde-10%. It also possesses other good attacks like Rock Slide to hit Salamence and Rotom-H, Superpower to KO Cobalion, and Iron Head to better threaten the likes of Nihilego, Mamoswine, and Hatterene. However, it's near-entirely outclassed by fellow Bug / Steel type Scizor, and to a lesser extent Cobalion. Besides those two providing utility options like pivoting, Knock Off, and Stealth Rock, both have much better defensive presences. In practice, Durant fails to come in safely and efficiently wallbreak, since it has poor bulk and can't significantly damage common Pokemon like Rotom-W and Slowking after it uses First Impression. It is also easily worn down through Life Orb recoil, Rocky Helmet users like Skarmory and Amoonguss, and entry hazards. Hustle also makes Durant incredibly inconsistent as a wallbreaker, and since it is incredibly frail, it is likely to be KOed in the same turn after missing a move. First Impression allows Durant to KO bulky Pokemon like Rotom-W and Slowking from high HP thresholds, and it forces out faster threats like Azelf, Lycanroc-D, and Choice Scarf Hydreigon. Bug Bite can be used over First Impression to hit Pokemon like Slowking and Tangrowth beyond the first turn, but losing out on First Impression makes Durant much worse at revenge killing Choice Scarf Hydreigon and Azelf. Iron Head is needed to threaten the likes of Nihilego and Hatterene and attain solid neutral coverage versus Hippowdon and Primarina. Rock Slide hits Fire- and Flying-types like Rotom-H, Salamence, Moltres, and Crobat. Salamence, however, isn't OHKOed by Rock Slide due to Intimidate, and it can KO back with Flamethrower or Hurricane. Superpower smashes Cobalion, as well as knocking out Skarmory and Chansey; while the former still needs sufficient chip damage to be OHKOed outright, Superpower at least deters it from switching in. Choice Band can be used over Life Orb for a higher power boost and no recoil damage, but locking Durant into any of its moves is easily exploitable. Choice Band does, however, make physical walls Skarmory and Hippowdon less safe as switch-ins. Hustle is required to give Durant the extra power it needs to break through or dent Pokemon like Chansey, Cobalion, and Hippowdon, but it still fails to KO Hippowdon and Skarmory. It is incredibly hard to make this set work, as Durant is heavily lacking in many other areas besides Speed and power, so trying to shore up its weaknesses through teammates is almost never worth the effort.
Delphox (XY competitive strategy): Delphox is a great offensive Pokemon in RU; in fact, the fiery fox can hold its own against most playstyles, from full-out stall to hyper offense. Its Fire / Psychic typing grants it a decent STAB combination that hits Pokemon such as Bronzong, Escavalier, Hitmonlee, Registeel, and Poliwrath for super effective damage and helps it add a good amount of defensive synergy for an offensive Pokemon, resisting Grass-, Fighting-, Fairy-, Fire-, and Psychic-types. This is further complemented by Delphox's nice movepool, with gems such as Dazzling Gleam, Grass Knot, Calm Mind, and Trick in addition to its STAB moves. Sadly, although its 104 base Speed allows it to outrun many relevant Pokemon, such as Hitmonlee, Flygon, Mega Glalie, Hoopa, Qwilfish, and Sigilyph, it falls tantalizingly short of many other faster attackers, including Virizion and Aerodactyl. For all its resistances, Delphox doesn't have very good bulk and is easily worn down by entry hazards and status moves, notably taking 25% damage from Stealth Rock. Due to its secondary Psychic typing, it struggles against the common Sucker Punch and Knock Off, as well as Pursuit users, which give the Choice Scarf set a heck of a hard time. Houndoom is also a huge blockade for Delphox because it's immune to both of Delphox's STAB moves. Though it does compete for a teamslot with other Fire- and Psychic-types, including Houndoom, Delphox possesses keen versatility and a knack for breaking down defensive cores, which makes it a great pick in RU. This set is probably Delphox's most well-known set and can be customized depending on your likings and what your team is trying to achieve. Fire Blast is Delphox's main method of roasting foes, as it's got a high 110 Base Power. Psychic is the best option in the second slot, as it's a powerful STAB option that hits Pokemon such as Alomomola, Qwilfish, and Gastrodon for good damage, making it better than Psyshock most of the time. Calm Mind gives Delphox the power to sweep through its checks while also giving it good matchups against stall and other defensive team archetypes. Grass Knot is the preferred move in the last slot, as it helps tie up a few loose ends left behind by Delphox's STAB moves. In particular, Grass Knot OHKOes Rhyperior and has a decent chance to OHKO Gastrodon after Stealth Rock. Substitute protects Delphox from status moves and shields it from heavier blows. It also gives Delphox a means of playing mind games with Sucker Punch users. Dazzling Gleam is another option in the third or fourth slot and allows Delphox to actually touch Houndoom, as well as hitting Dragons such as Flygon and Druddigon harder; it 2HKOes all three of them. The EVs are thrown into Special Attack and Speed to maximize Delphox's offensive capabilities, with a Timid nature to make use of its great Speed. The 4 remaining EVs go into HP to attain the Salac Berry boost after setting up only three Substitutes. Blaze gives a hefty boost to Fire Blast when Delphox is at 33% of its health or below, and thus is the preferred ability. Life Orb offers an appreciated boost to Delphox's Special Attack. Salac Berry is a decent option if you choose to run Substitute, as the Speed boost can help Delphox clean up faster teams. Colbur Berry could reduce the damage taken from a stray Knock Off or priority Sucker Punch, possibly preserving Delphox's sweep. However, Colbur Berry should really only be utilized if you're running Dazzling Gleam. Since Delphox offers a good amount of defensive synergy to its team, it's fine to use it to switch into special resisted hits, such as Venusaur's Leaf Storm, any of Sigilyph's moves, and Abomasnow's Giga Drain or Blizzard; however, it has a hard time switching in if Stealth Rock is on the field, and a misprediction on your part can lead to an untimely death. Remember not to let Delphox take physical hits most of the time because its Defense is mediocre. Delphox can switch in throughout the battle to take on threats, but because Delphox is good at sweeping slower, weakened teams, it should usually be preserved for late-game. Delphox can usually find an opening to set up and sweep if you play well with the rest of your team early- to mid-game. Notably, Aromatisse and Togetic are practically an invitation to lunch, though you should be wary of the odd Toxic or Thunder Wave. Find ways to wear down Delphox's checks, especially Houndoom, before attempting to set up and sweep. Substitute should be used against more passive walls whose only means of touching Delphox is a move like Toxic; this would include Pokemon such as Aromatisse and Togetic. Against Pokemon that can hit Delphox harder, such as Alomomola or Venusaur, a good strategy is to use Calm Mind to boost Delphox's Special Defense and then use Substitute the following turn. After setting up on and taking out a Pokemon such as Togetic, you should aim to have a Substitute intact so that Delphox can take a hit from a hard-hitting attacker, such as Sneasel or Aerodactyl, without fainting. Defog or Rapid Spin support is very much appreciated, considering how easily Delphox is worn down by entry hazards. Flygon delivers the goods while taking on Ground- and Rock-types, and Blastoise can spin away hazards and synergizes well with Delphox, resisting Water-type moves and threatening Rock- and Ground-types. Hitmontop is another good option for hazard removal, as it offers a key resistance to Knock Off. Generally, you want to pick Pokemon that will synergize well and can cover Delphox's weaknesses. Virizion synergizes greatly with Delphox, taking on all the Knock Offs and Water-type attacks for Delphox while Delphox can take Ice, Fire, and Psychic moves in return. Virizion can also weaken Delphox's checks, and vice versa. Pokemon that can beat Houndoom are definitely recommended; in particular, Diancie can pivot into Houndoom and KO it with Diamond Storm or lay down Stealth Rock to limit Houndoom's opportunities to switch in. Similarly, Omastar, Rhyperior, and Accelgor can wear down Houndoom, Spiritomb, Drapion, and other checks to Delphox by laying down entry hazards. Since this set can get revenge killed by faster Pokemon, it's a good idea to run bulky pivots, such as Granbull, that can take hits throughout the match while keeping up momentum. Alomomola and Aromatisse are more passive but can stomach stronger hits and heal their team with Wish. In a similar boat, having some fast Pokemon of your own to KO opposing revenge killers isn't a bad idea. Hitmonlee and Accelgor are decent examples of such revenge killers. Defensive Slowking can be a problem for Delphox because it can stomach a +1 Grass Knot and retaliate with Dragon Tail or Thunder Wave, both of which Delphox doesn't like. Therefore, Steelix or similar leads can lure in Slowking and cripple it with Toxic, while Pokemon that resist Water, such as Jellicent and Virizion, can switch into Slowking without too much to fear. Equipped with a Choice Scarf, Delphox can fulfill the noble role of revenge killer for its team. Fire Blast is Delphox's main STAB move and attains great coverage, even on its own. Psychic is a powerful secondary STAB attack; though it doesn't roast opponents like Fire Blast does, it's useful when you encounter a Pokemon that resists Fire or when you can't afford to miss a move. Dazzling Gleam hits the majority of Dark- and Dragon-types hard, such as Scrafty, Spiritomb, Flygon, and Druddigon. Trick can cripple a member of the opponent's team and free up Delphox's moveslots when used correctly. 252 EVs in Speed and Special Attack maximize Delphox's damage output and swiftness, with a Timid nature to make certain that Delphox can outrun Choice Scarf Flygon. Choice Scarf turns Delphox into a potent revenge killer and helps patch up some of its Speed problems versus offensive teams. Blaze is Delphox's only semi-useful ability; it provides a 1.5x boost to Fire Blast when Delphox is at 33% HP or below, which can happen often due to Delphox's mediocre but passable defenses. Delphox mostly serves as a revenge killer for its team, but it can also step forward to mop up weakened parts of the opponent's team. Since Delphox is a revenge killer, don't make bold predictions and lose it too early. Most of the time, it's not good to subject it to strong hits in the early- or mid-game, though weaker resisted attacks are fine for Delphox to switch into. It's important to play with Trick the right way; only hand off the Choice Scarf to a passive or very slow Pokemon, and make sure Delphox has done its job first. One exception, though, would be if the benefit of crippling a certain wall, such as Quagsire, is greater than that of being able to KO a faster Pokemon later in the game. Another good idea is to avoid locking Delphox into Psychic if there are Pursuit users on the opposing team and the switch is really obvious. However, if you're fairly sure that your opponent is switching in a Fire-type check, such as Mega Camerupt, Psychic is a relatively safe play. Choice Scarf Delphox fits in well on balanced or offensive teams looking for a powerful revenge killer. Defog and Rapid Spin support are also a good idea to complement this set: Flygon, Blastoise, and Hitmontop can provide this. Since Choice Scarf Delphox doesn't have the offensive presence of a setup sweeper, strong wallbreakers such as Diancie, Virizion, and Sawk are highly recommended to pressure and break down the opposing team's defensive core. These Pokemon can also switch into Knock Off users, which is another necessity when running Delphox. Venusaur can tear down defensive cores well and offer some synergy with Delphox. Entry hazards from Registeel, Mega Glalie, and Steelix can help guarantee some key KOs for Delphox. For example, Stealth Rock guarantees the OHKO on Venusaur. Packing something that can take down Pursuit users is a good idea for this set, as Delphox can fold so easily to Dark-types if you predict wrongly. Virizion can take on most Dark-types and uses Spiritomb as setup fodder. Granbull and Mawile are also good defensive answers to Dark-types. An all-out attacking set with Life Orb and Fire Blast, Psychic, Dazzling Gleam, and Grass Knot could be useful if your team prefers the coverage, though this sacrifices Delphox's ability to beat more defensive teams. Psyshock is a viable alternative to Psychic because it hits with similar power, although Psychic hits the vast majority of Pokemon such as Rhyperior and Alomomola harder. Delphox can wield a Choice Specs along with the same moves as the Choice Scarf set, allowing it to hit insanely hard, but it usually prefers the Speed or ability to switch moves. Leftovers gives Delphox some passive recovery and works well in conjunction with Substitute on the Calm Mind set, but it comes with a notable decrease in power. If your team can handle Pokemon like +1 Speed Scrafty and Choice Scarf Flygon decently, several different moves can replace Dazzling Gleam on the Choice Scarf set. Will-O-Wisp burns troublesome Pokemon on the switch in, Calm Mind allows Delphox to boost up once it's gotten rid of its Choice Scarf, and Hypnosis is an option that, despite its low accuracy, can put Houndoom or a bulky Water-type out of commission for a few turns. Shadow Ball can be used to hit Jellicent and Hoopa harder than any of Delphox's other moves. Overheat is a decent option on a Choice Specs or the Choice Scarf set for more power. Consequently, Flamethrower can be used for the increased accuracy, but the power drop is not worth it. Will-O-Wisp cripples Delphox's offensive switch-ins, such as Spiritomb and Drapion. Running Sunny Day and Solar Beam is a pretty nice combination, although Delphox doesn't really have the bulk or Speed for the job and doesn't get access to Chlorophyll. Similarly, Magician + Power Herb and Solar Beam makes for a decent way to deal with Alomomola and Jellicent and steals the foe's item, but Knock Off puts this strategy in jeopardy, and running Magician means that Delphox loses out on the possible Blaze boost.
Delphox (SM competitive strategy): Delphox is a threatening Pokemon in NU due to its high Speed and Special Attack, great offensive typing, and fairly vast movepool that allows it to fulfill a number of roles, including a setup sweeper that breaks through defensive cores, a Wish passer, and a revenge killer that can also clean late-game. While it isn't perfect defensively, Delphox's typing in tandem with its decent bulk gives it the ability to soft check some of the most common special attackers such as Magmortar and Whimsicott as well as Fighting-types like Hariyama and Passimian. Delphox's access to useful coverage moves in Dazzling Gleam and Grass Knot also allows it to bypass a lot of typical Fire-type checks such as Guzzlord, Seismitoad, and Rhydon, and its access to moves such as Calm Mind, Trick, and Wish gives it the ability to support both itself and its teammates. However, Delphox suffers from an unfortunate weakness to Stealth Rock, which limits its ability to check the previously mentioned Pokemon consistently. Delphox's typing also leaves it vulnerable to Dark- and Rock-types such as Sneasel, Houndoom, and Aerodactyl as well as their STAB moves in Pursuit, Sucker Punch, and Stone Edge. Calm Mind increases Delphox's Special Attack and Special Defense by one stage, allowing it break through bulkier teams more easily. Fire Blast is Delphox's main Fire-type STAB move, dealing a lot of damage to non-Fire-resistant Pokemon like Gallade after a boost in power from Calm Mind. Psychic provides Delphox with a secondary STAB move that is more reliable. Alternatively, Dazzling Gleam can be used to nail bulkier Dark- and Dragon-type Pokemon such as Scrafty, Incineroar, and Druddigon, which would otherwise be a massive annoyance to Delphox. Grass Knot rounds out Delphox's coverage by giving it the ability to threaten bulky Ground-, Rock-, and Water-types such as Palossand, Rhydon, and Slowking. The investment in Speed and Special Attack makes Delphox as strong and as fast as possible, with a Timid nature being used to outspeed foes such as Rotom and Sigilyph. Firium Z turns Fire Blast into Inferno Overdrive, which gives Delphox access to a strong and reliable one-time attack that can be used to break through typical checks like Mega Audino. Alternatively, Grassium Z can be used to turn Grass Knot into Bloom Doom, which is capable of heavily damaging bulky Rock- and Water-types like Rhydon, Slowking, and Pyukumuku even unboosted. Colbur Berry can be used over either Z-Crystal if Delphox's team already has a Z-Move user, allowing Delphox to take Dark-type moves such as Knock Off from Sneasel and Passimian before KOing them with Fire Blast. Fairium Z is another option that can be used to break through Pokemon like Incineroar, but Firium Z and Grassium Z are more consistently threatening for teams to deal with. Blaze increases Fire Blast's power when Delphox is low on HP, which can potentially give it an easier time powering through foes such as Mega Audino with Inferno Overdrive after it uses Calm Mind. Since Delphox excels against slower, more defensive teams, avoid playing recklessly against them and letting Delphox acquire too much damage beforehand in order to use it to its fullest potential. If Delphox is not holding a Colbur Berry, it is rather vulnerable to Dark-types and Pursuit trappers, meaning that preserving it until these Pokemon have been removed may prove useful; however, if a teammate needs a certain defensive core broken through in order to reliably sweep late-game, Delphox can be used to wallbreak for them instead. Exercise caution in regard to using Firium Z. It should mainly be used after Delphox has used Calm Mind in order to break through bulkier foes such as Mega Audino and Piloswine or if Delphox really can't afford to miss against foes like Steelix. While Delphox doesn't appreciate taking a lot of damage before it attempts to set up, it is capable of taking resisted special attacks from Pokemon such as Sceptile. Calm Mind Delphox fits well on bulky offensive teams that are in need of a setup sweeper that can break through common defensive cores. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Steelix, Garbodor, and Piloswine is appreciated, as the chip damage gives Delphox an easier time breaking through bulkier Pokemon like Slowking and Incineroar. Due to Delphox's weakness to Stealth Rock, it also appreciates having teammates such as Rotom, Blastoise, and Silvally-Steel that can remove entry hazards. Silvally-Steel can put bulkier foes on a timer with Toxic and make use of Parting Shot in order to pivot Delphox in, while Rotom can cripple physical attackers with Will-O-Wisp and get Delphox in safely against bulkier Grass-types like Dhelmise with Volt Switch. Delphox's weakness to Dark means that checks to Dark-types are indispensable teammates. Fighting-type Pokemon such as Hariyama and Passimian can offensively check Dark-types and wallbreak for Delphox, which they have a much easier time doing due to Delphox removing their checks. Mega Audino can also check Dark-types and come to Delphox's aid against revenge killers such as Choice Scarf Braviary. Additionally, Mega Audino can provide cleric support, which helps in maintaining Delphox's longevity. Sneasel makes for a good teammate due to its ability to pressure bulky Pokemon that Delphox can struggle with breaking through unboosted like Druddigon and Aerodactyl as well as potentially remove Slowking with Pursuit. In return, Delphox can eliminate physically bulky Pokemon that Sneasel can struggle with like Vaporeon and Steelix as well as soft check Fighting-types like Hariyama. Wish heals Delphox and its teammates, which allows it to reliably use Toxic to stall foes out. Protect guarantees that Delphox will regain HP after using Wish, generates a free turn of Leftovers recovery, forces badly poisoned Pokemon to take an additional turn of damage, and allows Delphox to scout for moves. Mystical Fire is the preferred Fire-type attack, since it lets Delphox prevent Pokemon like Comfey and opposing Delphox from boosting their Special Attack so that they can break through it. Toxic gives Delphox the ability to cripple defensive Pokemon that would otherwise completely wall it such as Rhydon and Slowking as well as more offensive checks like Guzzlord. 28 Special Attack EVs let Delphox 2HKO Xatu with Mystical Fire after Stealth Rock, while 252 HP EVs enable it to switch into Pokemon like Sceptile and Comfey. The remaining EVs go into Speed alongside a Timid nature so that Delphox can outspeed Mega Glalie. Leftovers gives Delphox a minor form of recovery, which lessens its reliance on Wish. Blaze increases the power of Delphox's Fire-type attack when it is low on HP, though Wish in combination with this set's more defensive nature prevent Delphox from taking complete advantage of it. Delphox should mainly switch in on special attackers that it checks such as Mega Abomasnow and Whimsicott; however, Delphox must be wary of Earthquake from Mega Abomasnow. Using Wish against these Pokemon as well as others like Steelix is ideal, since Delphox forces them out and can safely use Protect on the following turn to regain HP. Against Choice-locked Pokemon such as Guzzlord and Sneasel, use Protect in order to scout which move they lock themselves into and act accordingly. Toxic should be used whenever Delphox anticipates a Pokemon that it cannot otherwise deal with such as Incineroar, Slowking, or Vaporeon to switch in. Be wary of Toxic from Pokemon such as Mega Audino, as it greatly hinders this set and limits Delphox's ability to check Pokemon like Klinklang while still maintaining longevity. Refrain from switching in if Stealth Rock is up, as this heavily pressures Delphox and forces it to use Wish more often than it would like to. Wish Delphox fits best on bulky offensive and balance teams with teammates that lack recovery and are easier to wear down, as these Pokemon appreciate the support that Delphox provides. Entry hazard removers such as Blastoise, Silvally-Steel, and Whimsicott are important teammates due to Delphox's weakness to Stealth Rock preventing it from switching in and out as freely as it would like if it is up. All three of them can deal with bulky Ground- and Rock-types for Delphox. In return, Delphox can keep these Pokemon consistently healthy with Wish on top of switching into Grass-types. Fighting-types such as Hariyama and Passimian offensively check Dark-types and appreciate Delphox placing pressure on their checks like Vaporeon and Dhelmise. Mega Audino ability to reliably switch into and threaten out most Dark-types is very much appreciated, and it also provides cleric support in Heal Bell to prevent status from hindering Delphox. Bulkier setup sweepers like Comfey and Scrafty appreciate being passed Wishes, as it allows them to break early-game and take chip damage without it being detrimental in their attempt to sweep late-game. Delphox also pressures Steel- and Poison-types, which the two struggle against. Fire Blast is Delphox's strongest Fire-type STAB move, hitting Pokemon such as Sneasel, Steelix, and Whimsicott super effectively. Psychic threatens Fighting- and Poison-type Pokemon such as Passimian, Garbodor, and Golbat, and it also hits certain Fire-resistant Pokemon like Magmortar fairly hard. Psyshock can be used over Psychic to hit Pokemon such as Assault Vest Hariyama and Magmortar harder. Dazzling Gleam gives Delphox super effective coverage for certain Dark- and Dragon-type Pokemon such as Scrafty, Guzzlord, and Druddigon and is also useful for hitting foes such as Houndoom and Incineroar neutrally. Alternatively, Grass Knot can be used to hit Ground- and Water-type Pokemon such as Rhydon, Slowking, and Seismitoad harder than any of Delphox's other attacks. Finally, Trick cripples specially defensive Pokemon that Delphox is incapable of breaking through, such as Slowking and Vaporeon, while also allowing Delphox to switch between moves afterwards. The investment in Special Attack and Speed maximizes Delphox's offensive presence while making it as fast as possible, with a Timid nature and a Choice Scarf allowing Delphox to outpace the entire unboosted metagame as well as some boosted threats like Shell Smash Omastar. Blaze increases the power of Fire Blast when Delphox is low on HP, which can prove useful when attempting to clean late-game. Delphox should mainly be used as a revenge killer due to its high Speed and Special Attack, although it is capable of serving as a late-game cleaner as well. Exercise caution when it comes to using Psychic if the opposing team has a Dark-type like Incineroar or Sneasel, since they can switch into Delphox after it KOes a foe and either set up on it as it switches out or remove it with Pursuit. Delphox should mainly switch in on resisted special attacks such as Moonblast from Whimsicott and Fire Blast from Magmortar; however, note that Stealth Rock will limit its ability to handle these attacks. Trick should mainly be used against defensive teams, as losing Delphox's Choice Scarf isn't as detrimental against them compared to offensive teams and it can effectively hamper bulkier Pokemon like Slowking. However, be sure to scout for Z-Moves on Pokemon like Blastoise before using Trick, since it will fail and force Delphox out. Choice Scarf Delphox fits well on both offensive and bulky offensive teams that are in need of a way to keep faster foes in check and a powerful revenge killer. Delphox appreciates having teammates that can remove entry hazards due to its vulnerability to all forms of them, most notably Stealth Rock, so Pokemon such as Golbat, Rotom, Silvally-Steel, and Whimsicott are good partners. While Delphox doesn't appreciate entry hazards on its side of the field, it certainly appreciates being paired with entry hazard setters such as Rhydon and Steelix in order to pressure bulkier teams. Since Choice Scarf Delphox can struggle with breaking through certain bulky Pokemon such as Vaporeon and Slowking, it appreciates being paired with wallbreakers that can pressure these Pokemon and make cleaning up late-game easier, such as Heliolisk, Guzzlord, and Passimian. The former two can check Water-types, while the latter checks Dark-types, and Delphox can check Fairy-, Fighting-, and Ice-types for them in return. Setup sweepers that can take advantage of opposing Pokemon being locked into Knock Off and Pursuit such as Comfey, Scrafty, and Klinklang are good teammates, as Delphox appreciates having them to fall back on against the likes of Sneasel and Choice Scarf Houndoom. Scrafty can also set up on other checks to Delphox like Vaporeon and Slowking. In return, Delphox can break through Steel- and Grass-type Pokemon such as Steelix and Dhelmise for them. Mega Audino makes for a good teammate due to its ability to reliably switch into Knock Off, check Dark-types, circumvent Delphox's lack of recovery and vulnerability to entry hazards courtesy of Wish, and provide Heal Bell support in case Delphox is inflicted by status, while Delphox can remove Poison- and Steel-types for it. A Substitute + Calm Mind set with Salac Berry can be used to improve Delphox's chances of sweeping more offensive teams while allowing it to avoid status conditions and Pursuit from faster Dark-types, though Delphox doesn't appreciate dropping a move for Substitute. Choice Specs gives Delphox more immediate power at the cost of being unable to alternate between moves while not improving its matchup against faster, more offensive teams like Choice Scarf does.
Delphox (SV competitive strategy): Delphox casts a spell on PU as an effective sweeper and wallbreaker, having a plethora of good matchups thanks to its high power and relatively high Speed tier. At +2, Fire Blast is able to 2HKO Assault Vest Galarian Slowbro, OHKO Bronzong, and even OHKO Bellibolt after Stealth Rock. While Flamethrower can be more consistent in terms of accuracy, its lower damage output will often lead to Delphox missing important benchmarks. Psyshock gives Delphox a way to reliably damage frailer foes that resist Fire Blast such as Salazzle as well as an option to muscle through special walls such as Florges. It also provides a reliable option to damage Pokemon that may not be hit super effectively by Delphox's other coverage moves, such as Tatsugiri and Coalossal, as well as a way to secure KOs in cases where Fire Blast missing would result in a sticky situation. Delphox's last moveslot is adjustable; Encore allows Delphox to lock foes into undesirable moves like Gastrodon's Stealth Rock and Scrafty's Bulk Up and generate setup opportunities. Grass Knot is a reliable coverage option against bulky Ground-types that may not crumble to a Fire Blast such as Gastrodon, Mudsdale, and Golurk, while Dazzling Gleam deals consistent damage to Bulk Up Paldean Tauros-W and lets Delphox beat Scrafty without prior chip damage. Tera Fairy provides Delphox with a resistance to Dark and prevents it from being revenge killed by Sucker Punch users such as Skuntank and Bombirdier while also removing other problematic weaknesses to Water, Ground, and Ghost and boosting the power of Dazzling Gleam. Delphox is rather frail, so it needs teammates that can pivot it in safely such as Milotic, Rotom-C, and Gligar. Spikes setters such as Alolan Sandslash and Coalossal can help Delphox to secure damage benchmarks more easily, lessening the number of opportunities Fire Blast has to miss and helping to break through Scream Tail and Arcanine. Sticky Web support from Vikavolt is also valued, allowing Delphox to remedy its sometimes awkward Speed tier. Pokemon that can discourage or absorb Knock Off, like Virizion and Scrafty, also make good partners, as Delphox largely relies on Heavy-Duty Boots to find opportunities to switch in. Checks to Decidueye, such as Ambipom and Bombirdier, are also highly valued, as Delphox is 2HKOed by a Spell Tag-boosted Shadow Sneak. Decidueye itself, alongside Pokemon like Paldean Tauros-W and Scrafty, are also valuable for their ability to take on a myriad of other foes that can threaten Delphox offensively, such as Golurk and Zoroark. Faster revenge killers like Kilowattrel and Salazzle are also threatening, so Pokemon with priority moves like Sucker Punch Zoroark, Aqua Jet Paldean Tauros-W, and Shadow Sneak Decidueye make excellent partners. Choice Scarf users such as Duraludon, Staraptor, and Flamigo can also fulfill this role. In return, Delphox can blow holes in the opposing team, allowing these Pokemon to clean up once their checks have been weakened.
Lycanroc (SM competitive strategy): Lycanroc is a solid late-game sweeper thanks to its high Attack, stellar Speed tier, and access to a uniquely powerful Z move in Splintered Stormshards. However, it heavily relies on Lycanium Z along with Swords Dance to help break through many of its would-be checks. A somewhat shallow movepool also leaves Lycanroc walled and checked by common Ground- and Fighting-type Pokemon such as Mudsdale, Torterra and Gurdurr. Additionally, mediocre bulk means Lycanroc can be revenge killed by priority moves and Choice Scarf users like Primeape that aren't threatened by Accelerock. Brick Break targets Steel-types like Aggron, Alolan Sandslash, and Ferroseed, OHKOing the former two and doing a considerable amount of damage to the latter at +2. Fire Fang is also an option that reliably OHKOes Ferroseed at +2 in addition to Alolan Sandslash so that Lycanroc is not required to spend its Z-Move. Accelerock is used to threaten the few Pokemon capable of outspeeding Lycanroc, picking off foes such as Choice Scarf Swanna and Dodrio. Lycanium Z gives Lycanroc an incredibly powerful nuke to bust past some of its would-be checks such as Jellicent and Lurantis. Steadfast gives Lycanroc a +1 Speed boost when flinched by Kangaskhan's Fake Out. Lycanroc should be used primarily as a late-game sweeper utilizing its combination of a one-time nuke, priority, and coverage to clean up weakened teams. If the opposing team has a hard counter like Gurdurr, try to pressure and eliminate it before attempting to sweep. Lycanroc's Z-Move is fully accurate whereas Stone Edge is not, so if a sweep relies on landing Stone Edge, make sure your other moves such as Brick Break and Accelerock won't already KO a foe before using it. Strong special attackers such as Haunter and Swanna are great teammates for breaking common checks to Lycanroc like Mudsdale and Gurdurr. Checks to Fighting-type Pokemon are also useful for taking Mach Punches from the likes of Gurdurr and Hitmonchan, which are commonly used to revenge kill Lycanroc. Pokemon like Jellicent and Ferroseed are great for sponging Water- or Grass-attacks aimed at Lycanroc and can do a good job wearing down Pokemon with status or entry hazards so that Lycanroc can sweep. Finally, Choice Scarf users such as Primeape and Rotom-F and can more effectively sweep late-game thanks to Lycanroc's ability to remove foes such as Oricorio-E and Cryogonal, and Rotom-F can threaten defensive behemoths that can wall Lycanroc like Mudsdale and Tangela. Accelerock is used for threatening Pokemon capable of outspeeding Lycanroc such as Floatzel and for picking off faster foes such as Choice Scarf Swanna and Scyther. Toxic punishes bulky foes that can take Stone Edge such as Regirock, Mudsdale, Torterra, and Gastrodon by putting them on a timer. Toxic also allows Lycanroc to punish setup sweepers like Carracosta. Similarly, Taunt shuts down defensive Pokemon such as Regirock, preventing it from setting up entry hazards, while also disabling other status moves like Silvally-Fairy's Defog and Audino's Wish and Toxic. Lycanium Z turns Stone Edge into a powerful nuke that allows Lycanroc to break through Pokemon like Alolan Sandslash that would otherwise be able to remove its entry hazards. Steadfast allows Lycanroc to gain a +1 Speed boost on a Fake Out from Kangaskhan. Lycanroc can find wallbreaking opportunities mid- to late-game against offensive and balanced teams once it has set up Stealth Rock and its checks like Gurdurr, Mudsdale, and Claydol have been either severely crippled or weakened. Wallbreaking shouldn't be Lycanroc's main priority, though; it should aim to set up Stealth Rock and check Pokemon like Simisear before it starts looking for wallbreaking opportunities. The optimal time for Lycanroc to set up Swords Dance or Stealth Rock is against a Pokemon that it threatens out like Scyther and Dodrio. However, if you expect a bulky foe like Torterra or Regirock to come in, you should use Toxic to wear it down. Lycanroc should use Accelerock to hit faster Pokemon like Choice Scarf Swanna and revenge kill a +1 Speed Jynx. Lastly, Lycanroc should try to preserve its Z-Move for a scenario where it needs to OHKO a Pokemon that Stone Edge would miss out on or when it needs to break through a Pokemon like Regirock for a teammate instead of wasting it early-game. Lycanroc fits best on teams that require an offensive entry hazard setter and a way of keeping faster foes such as Simisear in check. Pokemon that appreciate entry hazard support like Silvally-Fairy, Primeape, and Kangaskhan make for good partners, as chip damage allows them to break through bulky foes more easily. Wallbreakers such as Jellicent and Drampa can aid Lycanroc in breaking down bulky Pokemon like Regirock and Sableye, while Lycanroc can break down Eelektross and Clefairy for them. Drampa is also able to pivot into Water- and Grass-type attacks from Pokemon like Ludicolo and Victreebel for Lycanroc. Lycanroc appreciates entry hazard support and completes a potent offensive core with Qwilfish. Qwilfish is also able to check Fighting-types like Hitmonchan and Gurdurr for Lycanroc and can set up Toxic Spikes to wear down foes like Regirock more easily for Lycanroc. Sucker Punch gives Lycanroc a slightly stronger priority move to mildly increase the damage dealt to foes such as Choice Scarf Primeape, but is much less reliable than Accelerock and far weaker versus Alolan Persian. Toxic can also be used over a coverage move on the Swords Dance set to cripple Lycanroc's checks like Poliwrath; however, this severely hampers its main purpose as a sweeper. Alternatively, a suicide lead set of Stealth Rock, Accelerock, Taunt, and Endeavor can be run, but it faces notable competition from Omastar, which has access to Spikes as well, and is generally inferior to the Offensive Stealth Rock set. Zen Headbutt with Psychium Z gives Lycanroc a much better move versus Fighting-types like Gurdurr and Poliwrath, which can otherwise switch into it comfortably, but it forces Lycanroc to give up either coverage for Steel-types or priority for Choice Scarf users. Lastly, Life Orb or Stone Plate can be used if you have a Z-Move user elsewhere on your team, but Lycanium Z is generally a much more effective item.
Lycanroc (SS competitive strategy): Thanks to its great Speed, great Attack, and coverage, Lycanroc has established itself as a notable offensive threat capable of revenge killing multiple tier staples such as Charizard and Ribombee, which gives it an important niche over Archeops. While it does have a great Attack and movepool, it struggles to get past physically defensive walls that aren't weak to its attacks like Tangela, Quagsire, and Sandaconda without residual damage. Its frailty and poor defensive typing causes it to rely on pivots like Ribombee and Rotom to enter the field safely. With this set, Lycanroc makes for a great revenge killer. Close Combat targets Pokemon like Gigalith, Togedemaru, and Regirock. Sand Rush in tandem with Lycanroc's high Speed lets it outspeed and pick off weakened Sandslash under sand. If running Psychic Fangs, Lycanroc is going to find itself unable to break through Sandaconda and Doublade; partners that can take them on like Whimsicott and Gourgeist-S are therefore appreciated. They can also weaken other walls such as Weezing in order for Lycanroc to clean. In exchange, they enjoy Lycanroc pressuring Pokemon like Charizard and Sneasel for them. If running Crunch, Lycanroc struggles against Fighting-types such as Poliwrath, which makes teammates like Jellicent and Aromatisse appreciated. While Life Orb makes Lycanroc less prediction reliant, Choice Band makes it hit considerably harder while also not getting chipped down by Life Orb.
Lycanroc (SV competitive strategy): With its high Speed, good movepool, and powerful offensive typing, Lycanroc has secured a great spot in ZU as a positively potent offensive sweeper as well as an adept entry hazard lead. Its access to a unique priority move in Accelerock lets it bury faster targets like Sneasel as well as boosted threats like Oricorio-F. Swords Dance Lycanroc is a prolific wallbreaker and sweeper, while lead sets can start games off with Stealth Rock, deny opposing hazards with Taunt, and severely weaken foes with Endeavor. However, Lycanroc is hounded by several issues. Its severe lack of bulk means that any strong neutral attack will likely take it out, hampering its opportunities to set up and sweep. Lycanroc also lacks in power if it can't hit a foe super effectively, which can leave it defenseless against certain foes like Regirock and especially Dipplin. Lycanroc's sweep is easily put down by many revenge killers like Whimsicott and Choice Scarf Passimian, which aren't as afraid of Accelerock. The dedicated lead set faces competition from Froslass, which has access to Spikes and a more effective trading tool in Destiny Bond. Lycanroc's high Speed and excellent Attack make it a deadly revenge killer, wallbreaker, and setup sweeper. The many switches it forces on foes like Charizard and Sneasel lets it grab a Swords Dance boost and potentially sweep. Stone Edge, while innacurate, is Lycanroc's strongest STAB attack. Alternatively, Rock Blast in conjunction with Loaded Dice is more accurate, but it results in Lycanroc losing Life Orb's extra power boost on its other moves. Lycanroc has a wide array of coverage moves to pick and choose from, with Close Combat being the most reliable choice for its high power and coverage against foes like Orthworm, Regirock, and Magneton. Accelerock lets Lycanroc pick off Rock-weak foes like Sneasel and Choice Scarf Typhlosion as well as weakened targets like Jolteon. Sand Rush is the optimal ability for Lycanroc, as on sand teams, Sand Rush allows Lycanroc to outspeed everything in the metagame, while on non-sand teams, it gives Lycanroc a positive matchup into opposing sand teams. A Jolly nature is generally preferred to outrun Charizard, Shaymin, and Froslass, but Adamant is an option on sand teams because of Sand Rush doubling Lycanroc's Speed. Tera Fighting gives Lycanroc immense power on Close Combat, notably cleanly OHKOing Orthworm and Regirock at +2. Tera Ghost flips Lycanroc's Fighting weakness, letting it blank a Choice Scarf Passimian's and Hisuian Sneasel's Close Combat. Offense and hyper offense teams enjoy Lycanroc's powerful wallbreaking and sweeping potential as well as the assurance it provides against opposing offense with Accelerock, especially against sun teams. Pivots like Passimian, Mesprit, and Whimsicott help Lycanroc hit the field safely. Whimsicott is a particularly good partner, as it handles many of Lycanroc's answers like Dipplin and Sandaconda, and its Prankster Encore can give Lycanroc a chance to sweep. In return, Lycanroc threatens many of Whimsicott's checks like Charizard, Magneton, and Articuno. Other physical wallbreakers like Sneasel, Hisuian Sneasel, and Glastrier play well with Lycanroc, working to create gaping holes in the opponent's team for each other to exploit. Dipplin is a near-perfect wall to Lycanroc, so teammates that can exploit it like Charizard and Magneton are quite handy. Lycanroc is quite frail, so defensive teammates like Weezing are helpful for it to fall back on. Lycanroc loves entry hazard setters like Sandslash and Orthworm, as the chip damage from Spikes softens up many of its answers like Dipplin and Sandaconda, helping Lycanroc secure its KOs much more easily. On sand teams, Sand Spit Sandaconda is necessary to set sand, and fellow sand sweepers like Sandslash can band together with Lycanroc to break the opposing team down. As Lycanroc struggles with Fighting-types, teammates that can deal with them like Oricorio-F and Whimsicott are its best friends. Other sweepers on hyper offense teams are useful partners for Lycanroc as well, since many of them like Nasty Plot Mesprit and Swords Dance Virizion exploit Lycanroc's answers in Sandaconda and Regirock. Physical sweepers like Swords Dance Hisuian Sneasel benefit from the holes in the opponent's team left behind by Lycanroc, easing their sweeps. Healing Wish support from Mesprit and Shaymin allows Lycanroc to go for a second round of sweeping. With Taunt and its high Speed, Lycanroc makes for an excellent entry hazard-setting lead. Taunt lets Lycanroc deny hazards from being set by Pokemon like Regirock, Orthworm, and Sandaconda as well as stop Defog attempts from Lurantis. Focus Sash is vital to guarantee that Stealth Rock is set even versus foes that would outspeed and OHKO Lycanroc. Endeavor pairs beautifully with Focus Sash, letting Lycanroc bring a foe's health down with it and potentially rendering that opposing Pokemon near useless. Rock Blast lets Lycanroc OHKO lead Froslass through Focus Sash, which allows it to simultaneously preserve its own while completely denying Spikes from going up. Close Combat nails opposing Lycanroc, and Accelerock lets Lycanroc chip faster foes before going down, possibly taking them out completely when combined with Endeavor beforehand. This also makes the mirror against opposing lead Lycanroc easier. Tera Ghost lets Lycanroc spinblock, but it is generally better to preserve Terastallization for Lycanroc's teammates, as it is intended to sacrifice itself. Lycanroc is best used on hyper offense teams, where it can lead the charge for its pack of setup sweepers. It notably is incredibly annoying for opposing hyper offense teams that use Froslass as their lead, as Lycanroc can one-shot Froslass through Focus Sash with Rock Blast. Mesprit is just one example of the many sweepers that appreciate Stealth Rock chipping away at their checks. On sun teams, Lycanroc denying hazards can free up Fire-type teammates like Charizard and Typhlosion to run items like Choice Specs and Choice Scarf instead of Heavy-Duty Boots. Lycanroc notably struggles to face lead Sandslash, so a teammate that can deal with it, like Virizion, can help Lycanroc in this regard. Since Lycanroc ideally sacrifices itself to get Stealth Rock up, teammates that deter hazard removal are great to make sure that Stealth Rock can stay up. Ghost-types like Spiritomb can block Rapid Spin attempts from Sandslash and Cryogonal, and Defog punishers like Passimian and Malamar make foes think twice about trying to clear Stealth Rock. Lycanroc can opt out of Accelerock on sand teams, since it outruns everything with Sand Rush active. Choice Band may seem tempting to use on Lycanroc; however, none of its moves are spammable, making the set heavily prediction reliant, and Lycanroc prefers switching moves to deal super effective damage. Crunch allows Lycanroc to hit Palossand hard, which would otherwise be a perfect counter, while Psychic Fangs nails Weezing. Play Rough hits Fighting-types slightly harder than Psychic Fangs and is Lycanroc's best bet at breaking past Dipplin. However, dropping Close Combat leaves Lycanroc unable to break past Orthworm, Magneton, and Regirock, which are generally more common.
Golisopod (SM competitive strategy): Golisopod has cemented itself as one of the best revenge killers in RU thanks to its access to a powerful STAB-boosted priority First Impression, which can easily pick off weakened threats such as Virizion, Barbaracle, and Metagross. It also has Aqua Jet to revenge kill Pokemon that resist First Impression, such as Salazzle, Arcanine, Rhyperior, and Nidoqueen. Golisopod's high Attack can also make it a threatening wallbreaker that can force switches, which can allow it to set up Spikes to add more offensive pressure against the opposing team and make it nearly impossible to switch directly into it. Golisopod can also defensively check Pokemon such as Metagross, Zygarde-10%, and Passimian thanks to its solid bulk and typing. While these attributes are amazing, Golisopod is very easily worn down by Stealth Rock and status conditions. While its ability Emergency Exit can sometimes be useful, it adds to Golisopod's problem of being worn down by entry hazards easily, especially if it is holding a Sitrus Berry. Since First Impression only works on the first turn Golisopod is in battle, it can be forced out by faster Pokemon like Noivern, Gardevoir, and Raikou after it has used the move. Its low Speed not only forces Golisopod out against super effective attacks but also can make Golisopod fail to move before Extreme Speed, especially from users like Zygarde-10% and Arcanine. Golisopod can also have trouble breaking some Pokemon like Milotic, Mantine, and Toxicroak. First Impression is Golisopod's best move, allowing it to revenge kill faster Pokemon like Gardevoir, Virizion, and Roserade thanks to STAB and its high power. Liquidation has wide coverage and can severely dent Pokemon that resist First Impression such as Registeel, Donphan, Diancie, and Rhyperior. Leech Life is a good secondary Bug STAB move that also gives Golisopod an option to heal itself and threaten bulky Pokemon like Cresselia, Slowbro, and Tangela after it uses First Impression. Spikes can provide further offensive pressure for its team. Although weaker, Aqua Jet is another priority move that can pick off Pokemon like Salazzle. The given EV spread with an Adamant nature makes Golisopod as powerful and as bulky as it can be while still outpacing uninvested base 50 Speed Pokemon like Registeel and Diancie. Sitrus Berry is the preferred item, since it gives Golisopod a chance to heal itself so it isn't forced out by Emergency Exit as quickly. Insect Plate allows Golisopod to OHKO Zygarde-10%, as well as Honchkrow with First Impression after Stealth Rock damage. Golisopod is a revenge killer that can also function as a wallbreaker. Because of its Stealth Rock weakness and Emergency Exit, it is important to keep Golisopod as healthy as possible. This also means keeping it away from status conditions. To achieve this, make sure that entry hazards are cleared and know when to bring Golisopod into battle. It is best that Golisopod is brought in with the help of a pivot, after another teammate has fainted, or against Pokemon it resists the moves of such as Metagross, Donphan, and Zygarde-10%. However, if entry hazards are still up and the team's spinner has been taken out, it is best to limit Golisopod's use as a check to weakened faster offensive Pokemon, since it loses a quarter of its health every time it enters the battle from Stealth Rock alone. Once it is in battle, use First Impression or Aqua Jet to take out a weakened Pokemon. Golisopod forces switches thanks to its raw power, so use this opportunity to either go for a coverage move to catch a potential switch-in expecting First Impression off guard or begin setting up Spikes on switch-ins such as Noivern. Keep in mind that when running Sitrus Berry, Golisopod will still be forced out by Emergency Exit after it consumes its item. Golisopod fits on a myriad of teams thanks to its amazing revenge killing capabilities. Entry hazard removal is crucial when using Golisopod. Rapid Spin is preferred to avoid getting rid of Golisopod's own Spikes, so partners like Mega Blastoise, Donphan, and Forretress are valuable. Mega Blastoise can also take Scald for Golisopod and threaten Pokemon like Noivern, while Donphan can also help keep Raikou in check. Xatu is another Pokemon to consider, since it can beat every Steel-type Stealth Rock setter. Pivots like Noivern, Forretress, and Mega Ampharos can get Golisopod safely into the battle. Noivern can also provide Taunt support to dissuade Defog users from removing Golisopod's Spikes. Other offensive Pokemon such as Raikou, Arcanine, and Virizion appreciate Golisopod's Spikes, as they can make wallbreaking and cleaning much easier. Raikou can also help pressure Flying-types for Golisopod. Virizion and Raikou can also pressure defensive Water-types like Milotic and Mantine. Clerics and Healing Wish users like Wish Florges, Diancie, and Gardevoir can help keep Golisopod healthy. Steel-type teammates like Metagross, Registeel, and Bronzong are also good teammates to consider, since they can switch directly into Flying-type attacks for Golisopod and take Toxic for it. All of these Pokemon can also make a hazard stacking core with Golisopod, while it can pressure Fire-types such as Salazzle and Arcanine for them in return. Although it can come in against Fighting-types like Machamp and Bewear, Golisopod is still checked by these Pokemon, since it is threatened by their powerful moves and they resist First Impression. Teammates like Noivern, Necrozma, and Gardevoir can help keep these Pokemon in check. Other Pokemon that can threaten Toxicroak out, such as Ninetales, Arcanine, and Swellow, are also appreciated, since Toxicroak completely walls Golisopod. Other moves like Rock Slide and Dual Chop can potentially work, since Golisopod lures in Pokemon that resist its STAB combination like Noivern, Mantine, and Dragalge. However, they have little use outside of hitting these targets. Drill Run is another move to consider, since it can stop Barbaracle and Toxicroak from setting up in front of Golisopod. Knock Off is a decent option to cripple some of Golisopod's defensive checks like Choice Scarf Noivern, Milotic, and Forretress. Choice Band can be utilized to boost Golisopod's Attack to absurd levels, but being locked into one move, especially if it's First Impression, can make Golisopod more exploitable by the foe and forces it out much more often.
Golisopod (SS competitive strategy): First Impression Golisopod is a reliable revenge killer for many common threats such as Dragon Dance Flygon, Celebi, and Xurkitree. Additionally, its combination of the crippling Knock Off and Spikes makes it a great offensive supporter able to punish nearly every switch-in and play around of some of its typical checks. Golisopod's typing and physical bulk allow it to check some strong threats such as Metagross, physical Sharpedo, and Flygon as well. However, after First Impression is used, Golisopod is easy to revenge kill due to its low Speed stat and mediocre special bulk. Golisopod also struggles against many common bulky Pokemon such as Milotic, Gastrodon, and Vileplume, particularly the Water-types. Although its Emergency Exit might be helpful in some situations, getting forced to switch out is disadvantageous in most cases. Leech Life gives Golisopod the option to heal itself and, more importantly, check Calm Mind Reuniclus and hit Grass-, Psychic-, and Dark-types such as Celebi and Umbreon super effectively after First Impression is used. Aqua Jet makes Golisopod more difficult to revenge kill and able to revenge kill Pokemon such as Chandelure, Salazzle, and Aerodactyl. However, without a strong and reliable STAB move in Liquidation, Golisopod becomes a bit too weak against bulky Pokemon such as Registeel, Klefki, and Escavalier. Knock Off punishes Golisopod's typical switch-ins such as Noivern, Togekiss, and Milotic. In addition, removing Heavy-Duty Boots from grounded switch-ins such as Gastrodon enables Golisopod to wear them down with Spikes. Heavy-Duty Boots gives Golisopod more switch-in opportunities by negating its severe entry hazard weakness. The listed Speed EVs allow Golisopod to outspeed Pokemon with uninvested base 50 Speed such as Diancie, Registeel, and Vileplume. The remaining EVs are dumped into HP, allowing Golisopod to better switch into Metagross's and Flygon's attacks. Golisopod works well on balance and bulky offensive teams that need a reliable revenge killer for common threats such as Xurkitree, Dragon Dance Flygon, and Nasty Plot Celebi and appreciate a reliable Spikes setter. Powerful wallbreakers such as Metagross, Toxtricity, and Gardevoir appreciate Golisopod's Spikes support. In return, they handle troublesome bulky Pokemon such as Vileplume, Galarian Weezing, and Gastrodon. Strong late-game cleaners like Mimikyu, Sharpedo, and Xurkitree are also good examples of Pokemon that appreciate Spikes support. Grass- and Electric-types such as Vileplume, Celebi, and Xurkitree check bulky Water-types that Golisopod struggles with such as Milotic, Gastrodon, and Suicune. Bulky Rock- and Steel-types such as Diancie, Stakataka, and Metagross, on the other hand, check strong Flying-types such as Togekiss, Noivern, and Crobat. These Pokemon also form a great hazard stacking core with Golisopod, as they are reliable Stealth Rock setters. Beyond that, they appreciate Golisopod's ability to remove Heavy-Duty Boots with Knock Off. Specially defensive Pokemon such as Steelix, Assault Vest Reuniclus, and Snorlax are great to reliably check the tier's strong Electric-types. Close Combat allows Golisopod to 2HKO Registeel, OHKO Lucario, and hit Water-types for decent damage.
Conkeldurr (BW competitive strategy): Conkeldurr is a powerful physical attacker with an enormous base 140 Attack and solid physical bulk backed by high HP. The combination of Iron Fist-boosted Drain Punch, vast coverage options like Thunder Punch, Ice Punch, and Payback, and priority in Mach Punch allows it to hit nearly every foe for heavy damage, letting it trade in most one-on-one matchups. Conkeldurr is also capable of utilizing its other ability, Guts, with a specially defensive set and Bulk Up in order to take advantage of its regular counters such as Landorus-T and Gliscor, making it highly unpredictable. However, its weak Special Defense leaves it vulnerable to strong special attackers like Alakazam and Latios, which can force it out before it gets a chance to attack. Additionally, while its bulk helps it take physical hits, it lacks recovery outside of Drain Punch, making it reliant on team support. Despite these drawbacks, its sheer power and strong matchup spread against common staples of sand teams make it a dominant force in the metagame. Bulk Up lets Conkeldurr boost its already massive Attack and solid Defense, making it an effective tank. Combined with Guts, it becomes a status-absorbing powerhouse, able to take hits from physical attackers while increasing its own offensive presence. It can often set up against common Pokemon like Tyranitar, Ferrothorn, and Rotom-W lacking Trick. Drain Punch serves as its primary STAB move, providing reliable damage and consistent recovery. Mach Punch is a crucial priority move, allowing it to pick off faster threats like Terrakion and Excadrill, as well as weakened foes. Payback gives Conkeldurr a way to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types like Jellicent, Latios, and Starmie, which otherwise resist or are immune to its Fighting-type STAB moves. Thanks to Conkeldurr's low Speed, Payback often hits with double its Base Power, which, after a Bulk Up, KOes offensive Psychic-types such as Latios and Starmie with a follow-up Mach Punch. Ice Punch is a strong alternative that lets Conkeldurr threaten Flying- and Dragon-types like Gliscor, Landorus-T, and Dragonite, which can otherwise check it or set up on it. Maximizing bulk lets Conkeldurr function as a durable tank that can set up and trade effectively. Maximum HP and Special Defense investment with a Careful nature significantly improves its poor special bulk, allowing it to handle special attackers more effectively by letting it live attacks like Draco Meteor from Choice Specs Latios while becoming physically bulkier over time. This investment, combined with its natural bulk, Leftovers recovery, and especially its moveset, makes it difficult to wear down. An Adamant nature is an alternative for more immediate power but sacrifices special bulk, making it easier to break through before it sets up. A Sassy nature and 0 Speed IVs is another alternative with Payback, allowing Conkeldurr to underspeed Reuniclus and Slowbro to maximize Payback's damage. Guts allows Conkeldurr to absorb status without hindrance, turning burns and paralyses into an advantage rather than a setback while providing its team a valuable switch-in to Scald. Leftovers provides passive healing, negates weather chip damage, mitigates burn or poison damage, and helps Conkeldurr stay healthy throughout the match. Since Conkeldurr struggles against faster threats and strong special attackers, it benefits from teammates that can help it enter battle safely and support its setup. Conkeldurr appreciates pivots that can bring it in safely against favorable matchups. Landorus-T and Rotom-W are excellent choices, using U-turn and Volt Switch, respectively, to maintain momentum while checking physical attackers that threaten Conkeldurr, but Jirachi is Conkeldurr's best and most prominent partner. In addition to its capability to check and force out Psychic-types with its excellent typing and U-turn, Jirachi can cripple its answers that are also potential roadblocks to Conkeldurr such as Skarmory, Politoed, and Tentacruel by using Trick to give them a Choice Scarf. Healing Wish is also an incredible boon to Conkeldurr, giving it a second chance at a sweep after it has weakened its own answers in its first sweep attempt. On more balanced teams, Jirachi also provides paralysis support to slow down faster threats that could otherwise outspeed and KO Conkeldurr. Latias is another Healing Wish user that checks Keldeo and other notable rain-boosted threats such as Thundurus-T while making offensive progress with its strong Draco Meteor. While Conkeldurr takes advantage of Ferrothorn as an entry point, it dislikes Spikes chipping away at its HP. Starmie is an excellent Rapid Spin user that can keep entry hazards off the field. Starmie also provides an offensive presence, forcing out physical walls like Skarmory that trouble Conkeldurr. The aforementioned Psychic-types like Latios, Reuniclus, and Starmie can be problematic for Conkeldurr. Tyranitar can trap and remove them with Pursuit, preventing them from switching freely. Scizor is a much more offensive option, as it can pick off weakened Psychic-types with Bullet Punch while trapping them with Pursuit or threatening to set up a Swords Dance on the Psychic-types that struggle to do damage to it. Conkeldurr wields its enormous base 140 Attack alongside the evergreen BoltBeam combination to rip apart defensive cores like little else. When boosted by both Life Orb and Iron Fist, Drain Punch can OHKO the two most common defensive Pokemon in the tier, Ferrothorn and Tyranitar, while restoring any Life Orb recoil and other residual damage. Ice Punch and Thunder Punch function as excellent coverage moves that allow Conkeldurr to hit foes that either resist or are immune to its STAB options like Gliscor, Dragonite, Starmie, and Jellicent super effectively. Mach Punch allows Conkeldurr to pick off Fighting-weak Pokemon like Tyranitar, Excadrill, and Terrakion as well as other weakened foes. It also lets Conkeldurr get some last bit of damage against foes before fainting, putting common revenge killers such as Keldeo and Thundurus-T into range of Conkeldurr's teammates, such as the faster Latios. Breaking Alakazam's Focus Sash is also appreciated by Conkeldurr's teammates, which could not otherwise OHKO it. Life Orb allows Conkeldurr to cleanly OHKO common checks such as Tentacruel, Thundurus-T, and Landorus-T after Intimidate with its coverage options. If Conkeldurr can more reliably be supported against these threats and pivoted onto the battlefield, then Fist Plate provides a no-drawback boost to Conkeldurr's primary attacks. Iron Fist is used to boost all of Conkeldurr's punching-based attacks. Maximizing special bulk lets Conkeldurr tank some special moves, even with its lackluster Special Defense; for example, the given EVs allow Conkeldurr to survive a Hydro Pump from a Choice Scarf Keldeo from full HP in rain. An Adamant nature with 236 Attack EVs is used to further elevate Conkeldurr's offensive presence. Pivots like Landorus-T, Rotom-W, and Jirachi play a crucial role in granting Conkeldurr safe entry opportunities, allowing it to avoid faster threats and strong special attackers that threaten it. Landorus-T softens physical foes with Intimidate and uses U-turn to maintain momentum, while Rotom-W utilizes Volt Switch to pivot and bring Conkeldurr in against targets it can pressure, such as Ferrothorn. However, Jirachi is Conkeldurr's best and most prominent partner. In addition to its capability to check and force out Psychic-types with its excellent typing and U-turn, Jirachi can cripple its answers such as Skarmory, Forretress, and Tentacruel, which are also potential roadblocks to Conkeldurr, by using Trick to give them a Choice Scarf or by paralyzing them with Thunder or Body Slam. Healing Wish is also an incredible boon to Conkeldurr, giving it a second chance at a sweep after it has weakened its own answers in its first attempt. Even though pivots give Conkeldurr plenty of entry opportunities, entry Hazards like Spikes can significantly limit the number of times it can switch in safely. Starmie helps alleviate this issue by removing hazards with Rapid Spin while also pressuring key physical walls like Skarmory, making it easier for Conkeldurr to stay healthy and threatening throughout the match. Starmie also has the tendency to invite Tyranitar and Ferrothorn onto the field, which is a prime switch-in opportunity for Conkeldurr. Latias offers crucial support to Conkeldurr by checking dangerous rain-boosted threats like Keldeo and Thundurus-T, which can otherwise overwhelm it with speed and powerful special attacks. Latias also brings a strong offensive presence with Draco Meteor and can use Healing Wish like Jirachi. To address troublesome Psychic-types such as Latios, Alakazam, and Reuniclus, Pursuit trappers like Tyranitar are effective. Alternatively, Scizor is a more offensive Pursuit user, using Bullet Punch to clean up against weakened threats and Swords Dance to set up and punish passive Psychic-types that can't deal enough damage back to it. Conkeldurr lacks access to Close Combat, forcing it to rely on other Fighting-type moves for power. Hammer Arm alongside Iron Fist and Life Orb matches Close Combat's power while avoiding defense drops, with the Speed drop being a much better trade-off in most situations. It also allows Conkeldurr to secure key KOs with a follow up Mach Punch on Pokemon such as physically defensive Rotom-W and Starmie after Stealth Rock. However, losing out on either Drain Punch's recovery or a coverage move is problematic for Conkeldurr. A Choice Band set allows Conkeldurr to function as a strong revenge killer with Mach Punch and hit hard with Superpower or Hammer Arm. However, it struggles against the plethora of Fighting-resistant Pokemon like Gliscor, Slowbro, and Latios, making it heavily reliant on prediction. A Life Orb Sheer Force set is another strong option, taking advantage of boosted moves like Thunder Punch and Ice Punch while still having access to Mach Punch and Drain Punch for priority and recovery. However, Sheer Force does not enhance Conkeldurr's STAB moves; this makes the set less efficient compared to others, as it sacrifices durability for a power boost thatdoesn't apply to some of its most important attacks. Drain Punch helps mitigate Life Orb recoil, but it isn't ideal due to the ever-present chip damage from weather, limiting Conkeldurr's longevity. Force Palm provides a paralysis chance to help with its low Speed, but besides being an unreliable form of status, it can't be used alongside Mach Punch—an essential priority move that takes full advantage of Conkeldurr's high base Attack.
Conkeldurr (XY competitive strategy): Conkeldurr brings a lot of power to the table, having good physical bulk and access to a wide movepool; however, it suffers from having an underwhelmingly low Speed stat. Conkeldurr is vulnerable to Psychic-, Fairy-, and Flying-types, which gives it a tough standing due to the high prevalence of these threats. In addition to this, Conkeldurr is outclassed by other Fighting-types like Mega Medicham, Keldeo, and Terrakion. Despite Conkeldurr struggling to find its place due to its bulk, with the right moveset and item, it can become a powerful threat to many teams. An advantage Conkeldurr has is his ability Guts, which allows it to benefit from status conditions and switch into them. Drain Punch gives Conkeldurr longevity and a safe attacking option. Facade heavily damages various Pokemon that resist its STAB attacks, including Clefable, Amoonguss, and Tornadus-T. Ice Punch can also be run, since it hits Conkeldurr's most common counters like Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Hippowdon; however, this means that it is walled by Clefable. Knock Off allows Conkeldurr to Psychic- and Ghost-types like Slowbro, Latios, and Gengar while removing items from switch-ins like Garchomp, Zapdos, and Clefable. Lastly, Mach Punch is a strong priority move that can pressure faster foes like Tyranitar, Hydreigon, Excadrill, and Heatran while picking off weakened threats. 252 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature guarantee Conkeldurr’s maximum damage output, making it as threatening as possible. The 136 Speed EVs allow Conkeldurr to be faster than Clefable and Hippowdon. The rest of the EVs are invested in HP, giving Conkeldurr as much bulk as possible. Flame Orb is used to activate Guts, which not only increases its damage but also makes it immune to other status moves. An alternative EV spread of 48 HP / 252 Atk / 208 Spe makes Conkeldurr faster than Skarmory. Conkeldurr should be used mainly as a wallbreaker, ideally coming in on Steel- and Dark-type Pokemon like Ferrothorn, Heatran, and Bisharp; it can then revenge kill them or threaten them out, delivering powerful hits on their teammates. Another option is to bring Conkeldurr in on moves that can afflict status, like Will-O-Wisp, Lava Plume, and Scald. Using Knock Off early in the game can be helpful to beat threats later by removing key items such as Leftovers, Rocky Helmet, and Choice items. Conkeldurr fits well on bulky offense teams and can have a place on balanced teams as well. It appreciates teammates that can deal with bulky Pokemon like Mega Scizor and Rocky Helmet Garchomp as well as Flying-types like Tornadus-T and Talonflame. On less aggressive teams, Conkeldurr can also benefit from Wish support from Pokemon like Jirachi, Clefable, and Chansey that can also switch into opposing Clefable or Psychic-types like Mega Alakazam and Latios. Drain Punch is Conkeldurr's primary STAB move, giving it longevity. Knock Off supports the team by removing items like Leftovers and Rocky Helmet from foes like Clefable, Zapdos, and Landorus-T. Additionally, it hits Psychic- and Ghost-types that resist Conkeldurr’s other attacks. Mach Punch pressures faster foes like Tyranitar, Hydreigon, Excadrill, and Heatran while picking off weakened threats. If Conkeldurr is statused, Facade is an option to deal a lot of damage, especially to targets that resist its STAB attacks including Clefable, Amoonguss, and Tornadus-T. Stone Edge can also be run instead to hit Flying-types like Talonflame, Mega Pinsir, and Zapdos as well as Volcarona. 252 Attack EVs with an Adamant nature give Conkeldurr a high damage output, while the HP investment makes it bulky enough to absorb many special attacks and gives it better sustainability against physical moves like Bisharp's Knock Off or Iron Head, Tyranitar's Stone Edge, and Excadrill's Earthquake. Assault Vest supports Conkeldurr's mediocre Special Defense. Guts allows Conkeldurr to absorb status-inflicting moves. Another option is using Iron Fist instead of Guts and Ice Punch and Poison Jab over Facade and Knock Off. Since Iron Fist boosts its main attack, Drain Punch, as well as other potential coverage moves, Conkeldurr can carve itself a niche as a powerful wallbreaker and pseudo-tank. The downside of this set is that it becomes vulnerable to burns. Assault Vest Conkeldurr is supposed to absorb special attacks or status moves. With Drain Punch, Conkeldurr can stay relatively healthy, allowing it to check certain threats multiple times. Due to its typing, Conkeldurr shouldn't switch into Flying- or Psychic-type moves. However, if Conkeldurr is already on the field, it has the chance to KO foes that would otherwise KO it but can’t due to the Assault Vest, like Tornadus-T and Mega Alakazam. Assault Vest Conkeldurr is good against many offensive teams, since it can switch into Volcarona and Bisharp, threatening to OHKO them. Having access to Knock Off enables Conkeldurr to provide support for the team by removing items such as Leftovers and Rocky Helmet from foes. Conkeldurr fits well on bulky offense teams, where it can absorb status moves while keeping the pressure up and checking threats like Volcarona or Bisharp. Due to its weakness to Flying- and Psychic-type Pokemon, having Bisharp or Tyranitar as a teammate is beneficial. Physically offensive Pokemon that provoke Will-O-Wisp synergize well with Assault Vest Conkeldurr, either giving Conkeldurr the burn it needs for its Guts to be activated or forcing the opponent to be careful with the usage of such moves, giving Conkeldurr’s teammates the chance to stay in on opponents that they are not supposed to otherwise. A Bulk Up set with Special Defense investment and Leftovers can be used, allowing Conkeldurr to set up and become hard to KO while increasing its Drain Punch recovery; this makes it a solid bulky sweeper that can absorb status. Ice Punch is an option to hit Ground- and Flying-type Pokemon, while Poison Jab can be used on offensive Conkeldurr sets to deal with Fairy-types like Clefable and Mega Altaria.
Conkeldurr (SM competitive strategy): Although Conkeldurr boasts respectable physical bulk and power, it suffers from a terrible Speed stat and typing, leaving it susceptible to the Psychic-, Fairy-, and Flying-types that plague the tier. Offensively, Conkeldurr is completely outclassed by other hard-hitters such as Mega Medicham, which is significantly more powerful and holds a much better Speed tier, and Mega Mawile, which possesses better coverage and defensive utility. These poor qualities leave Conkeldurr severely outclassed and without any reason to be used in OU. Conkeldurr's main niche lies in its Guts-boosted attacks in conjunction with Flame Orb, which allow it to cripple opposing teams with Knock Off and 2HKO defensive Pokemon like Toxapex, Clefable, and Tangrowth with Facade at the cost of taking passive damage every turn. However, Mega Medicham and Mega Mawile hit much harder thanks to Huge Power and higher-Base Power moves, making them significantly harder to wall. Mega Medicham also possesses a higher base Speed to make up for its lackluster defensive typing, while Mega Mawile possesses a good defensive typing to make up for its low Speed.
Conkeldurr (SS competitive strategy): Guts Conkeldurr is one of UU's most devastating wallbreakers. Once burned by Flame Orb, it can evade status from defensive staples like Amoonguss and Chansey. Knock Off and Ice Punch or Facade offer virtually perfect coverage alongside its powerful Drain Punch or Close Combat, allowing it to dismantle defensive cores like Chansey and Quagsire. STAB Mach Punch is also a great tool, functioning as a strong priority attack that can threaten faster Pokemon like Excadrill, Mamoswine, and Hydreigon. Conkeldurr is a bit weighed down by its proneness to being worn down from Flame Orb, however. This is made a larger problem by its poor Speed, which allows the tier's many faster threats like Keldeo and Salamence to overwhelm it, as well as its iffy defensive typing, which doesn't give it many notable resistances and leaves it open to Pokemon like Moltres, Togekiss, Primarina, and Salamence. Moreover, sand chip from Hippowdon wears down Conkeldurr. Conkeldurr also faces competition from Fighting-types like Keldeo, who offers comparable power in addition to greater Speed and an additional Water-typing. Drain Punch can be used as Conkeldurr's primary STAB move, giving it more longevity and a safe attacking option. However, Close Combat is also an option for its massive damage output, crushing defensive staples like Celesteela and Skarmory. Facade heavily damages various Pokemon that resist its STAB attacks, including Nidoqueen, Amoonguss, and Primarina. Ice Punch KOes Conkeldurr's most common counter in defensive Salamence while hitting threats like Hippowdon and Tangrowth super effectively. However, Conkeldurr becomes walled by Primarina. Knock Off nails foes such as Galarian Slowbro, Chandelure, and Slowking. It also removes items from switch-ins like Salamence, Togekiss, and Moltres, crippling them heavily. Mach Punch is a strong priority move that can pressure faster foes like Hydreigon, Excadrill, and Zarude while picking off weakened threats in general. An Adamant nature is preferred in order to maximize Conkeldurr's wallbreaking potential. Conkeldurr generally fits well on more offensively oriented builds. Some balance teams appreciate the offensive pressure it offers, too. Due to Conkeldurr's tendency to wearing itself down, it appreciates Grassy Terrain support from Tapu Bulu for passive recovery. Tapu Bulu also checks faster threats to Conkeldurr like Primarina and Azumarill. Conkeldurr struggles to break through physical walls like Tangrowth and Hippowdon in the short term, so teammates who can threaten these like Moltres and Zarude are appreciated. Entry hazard setters like Nihilego and Swampert can wear down checks like Skarmory with Stealth Rock for Conkeldurr to muscle through easier. Nihilego can also check many revenge killers to Conkeldurr like Togekiss, Salamence, and Crobat. Slow pivots like Chansey, Slowking, and Mandibuzz can help bring Conkeldurr into play against threats like Excadrill, Zarude, and Lycanroc-D. Slowking can also provide Future Sight support to further amplify Conkeldurr's wallbreaking power. Late-game cleaners like Thundurus-T and Scizor are able to clean up after Conkeldurr softens up the opposing team. In return, it can pressure Flying-types like Togekiss and Salamence. Faster teammates like Choice Scarf Hydreigon can revenge kill threats to Conkeldurr like Azelf and Salamence. A Bulk Up set with investment in Special Defense can function as a solid bulky sweeper that can absorb status. Conkeldurr could hold Assault Vest to more easily switch into Scald from Pokemon like Raikou and Quagsire while also checking special attackers such as Nihilego. However, this often prevents it from being able to maximize its offensive potential, and it is still quite prone to being worn down.
Escavalier (XY competitive strategy): Escavalier's solid typing and bulk allow it to check the various Psychic-types in the tier. Despite its average movepool, Escavalier can perform multiple roles on a team, such as an Assault Vest tank, a Choice Band wallbreaker, or a late game sweeper with Swords Dance. Unfortunately, Escavalier's lack of reliable recovery hinders its ability to tank hits, and this is furthered by its awful Speed stat. Common Fire-types in the tier are major issues for Escavalier, as they resist both of Escavalier's STAB moves and can consistently pressure Escavalier. Megahorn is a powerful STAB move that hits hard and targets the Psychic-types that Escavalier checks. Iron Head is Escavalier's secondary STAB move that hits Rock-types such as Rhyperior and Aerodactyl as well as Fairy-types such as Aromatisse and Togetic. Pursuit provides important utility in trapping a fleeing Psychic- or Ghost-type such as Meloetta, Mesprit, Bronzong, and Mismagius. Knock Off cripples Escavalier's typical switch-ins such as Alomomola and Jellicent by removing their item, and dealing heavy damage to the latter. Drill Run can be used to target Fire-types such as Emboar and Mega Camerupt, as well as Qwilfish. 84 Speed EVs are used to outspeed uninvested base 30 Speed Pokemon such as Slowking. 248 HP EVs make Escavalier as bulky as possible while minimizing the damage taken from entry hazards. The remaining EVs are placed into Attack to hit hard. Assault Vest bolsters Escavalier's Special Defense, making it a potent tank. Overcoat makes Escavalier immune to Sleep Powder from Venusaur. Pivot into weak or resisted special attacks and hit back hard with a strong STAB move or a coverage move. Knock Off can be spammed in the early-game, as it is very useful to cripple most of Escavalier's typical switch-ins, but should be used sparingly if your opponent has a Virizion, which benefits from taking the Dark-type attack. Escavalier should be kept away from Knock Off users, as losing its Assault Vest greatly hinders its ability as a pivot and tank. Teammates to handle Fire-types such as Delphox, Emboar, Mega Camerupt, and Houndoom are necessary. Bulky Water-types such as Alomomola, Qwilfish, and Jellicent check some of those Fire-types to some degree. Alomomola also provides Wish support for Escavalier to somewhat mitigate its lack of recovery. Houndoom sets itself apart from the other two Fire-types in that it can easily muscle past Water-types with Life Orb-boosted Dark Pulses, so other teammates such as Mega Camerupt, Rhyperior, and Emboar all fit this role. Dragon-type Pokemon such as Druddigon and Flygon are also decent checks to Fire-type Pokemon and appreciate Escavalier's ability to threaten Fairy-types and switch into stray Ice-type attacks aimed at them. Megahorn is a powerful STAB move, 2HKOing even bulky Pokemon such as Alomomola. Iron Head is a strong secondary STAB move that hits Fairy- and Rock-types such as Togetic and Aerodactyl. Pursuit deals massive damage to fleeing Psychic-types such as Meloetta, and Mesprit. Drill Run hits Steel- and Fire-types such as Registeel, Emboar, and Mega Camerupt. Alternatively, Knock Off can be used for general utility in removing the foe's item, and is Escavalier's strongest attack to hit Jellicent with. Maximum Attack investment and an Adamant nature are used to hit as hard as possible, and a Choice Band amplifies Escavalier's power to exceptional levels. 84 Speed EVs let Escavalier outpace uninvested base 30 Speed Pokemon such as Slowking. Overcoat avoids Sleep Powder from the likes of Venusaur. Generally, Choice Band Escavalier is best used as a powerful wallbreaker early- to mid-game so that its teammates can clean up afterwards. Due to being Choice-locked, this set typically tends to be somewhat prediction reliant, as it is easy to take advantage of Escavalier locked into one of its STAB moves or a weak coverage move. Specifically, it is very easy to exploit Escavalier locked into Drill Run, so it should be used sparingly. However, it can be quite rewarding to hit Emboar on the switch with Drill Run to aid a teammate that may struggle getting past them. Use Pursuit to trap fleeing Psychic-types, but the move should also be used sparingly if your opponent has a Pokemon that can set up on Escavalier locked into Pursuit, such as Virizion and Fletchinder. Scout for Fire-type coverage moves from the likes of Druddigon. Water-type Pokemon such as Samurott, Alomomola, and Seismitoad are excellent teammates because they take on the Fire-types that bother Escavalier, while in return Escavalier threatens Grass-types with Megahorn. General setup sweepers such as Drapion and Virizion make for great teammates, as they appreciate Escavalier's wallbreaking. Pokemon that can check or revenge kill Virizion, such as Fletchinder, Sigilyph, Choice Scarf Emboar, and Choice Scarf Delphox, are very helpful. With Swords Dance, this Escavalier set can slowly boost its way up to +6, hitting a monstrous 1232 Attack and being able to heavily damage, if not outright OHKO, every common Pokemon on a defensive team. Rest is used to bring Escavalier back up to full health if it is getting worn down by moves such as Meloetta's Shadow Ball, while also alleviating any burns that may occur from moves such as Alomomola's Scald. Sleep Talk lets Escavalier gain Attack boosts as well as launch attacks while it is still asleep from Rest. Megahorn is the actual attacking move, with a high Base Power and being at least neutral against a large amount of defensive Pokemon. The set uses maximum investment in Special Defense because Escavalier typically likes setting up on Calm Mind Psychic-types, and it already has impressive physical bulk. Leftovers provides passive recovery, aiding Escavalier in its role. A Sassy nature and 0 Speed IVs are used to outspeed threats in Trick Room such as Rhyperior. 248 HP EVs are used to minimize damage taken from entry hazards. Overcoat makes Escavalier immune to Sleep Powder. Switch into Pokemon that Escavalier can set up on, such as Venusaur, and proceed to use Swords Dance until Escavalier gets worn down or inflicted with status. Usage of Rest and Sleep Talk is rather straightforward; Rest should be used to heal Escavalier and cleanse it of any status ailments, and Sleep Talk should be used while asleep. These two moves also allow Escavalier to switch into and absorb status moves. It is important to get rid of Fire-type Pokemon such as Emboar and Mega Camerupt as well as Taunt users such as Drapion and Spiritomb before setting up, as they are significant roadblocks for Escavalier. Stealth Rock support from Pokemon such as Rhyperior, Torterra, and Mega Camerupt is helpful to dissuade Fire-types from repeatedly switching in. In addition, Spikes support from the likes of Qwilfish and Roselia quickly wears down Mega Camerupt, a common answer to Escavalier. Teammates to check Fire-type Pokemon, such as Lanturn, Alomomola, and Rhyperior, are solid partners. Due to how this set matches up well versus defensive builds and struggles against offensive teams, Pokemon that have a good matchup against offensive teams such as Choice Scarf Emboar, Fletchinder, and Jolteon pair well with Escavalier. Clerics such as Aromatisse and Togetic are helpful so that Escavalier doesn't have to be completely reliant on Sleep Talk. A set with Swords Dance and three attacks has some merit but struggles to set up and maintain longevity. To a different measure, a Swords Dance set with two attacks and Rest and a Chesto Berry can be used. Toxic cripples Alomomola and Fire-type Pokemon, but has little use outside of that.
Escavalier (SM competitive strategy): Escavalier is a wallbreaker that is almost impossible to switch into thanks to its amazing Attack stat and powerful STAB moves that allow it to beat Pokemon like Shaymin, Cresselia, and Florges. Its access to Pursuit also allows it to trap faster Pokemon like Metagross, Gardevoir, and Roserade lacking Hidden Power Fire. Escavalier can find multiple opportunities to switch into Pokemon like Gardevoir, Mega Sceptile, and Espeon because of its good defensive typing and respectable bulk. Unfortunately, Escavalier's poor Speed leaves it outpaced by the majority of the tier, which makes it easy to revenge kill. This is further exacerbated by Escavalier's 4x weakness to Fire-type moves, meaning that Pokemon such as Salazzle, Arcanine, and Ninetales and Pokemon with Fire-type coverage like Necrozma, Nidoqueen, and Venusaur will always force it out. Escavalier also lacks a reliable method of recovery outside of Leftovers, which, combined with its low Speed and its tendency to switch into resisted hits and entry hazards, makes it easy to wear down. Finally, Escavalier faces immense competition from Metagross as a bulky offensive Steel-type thanks to the latter's better Speed tier and greater versatility. It also competes with Golisopod as an offensive Bug-type thanks to Golisopod's access to First Impression and Spikes, giving it a much stronger offensive presence. Protect allows Escavalier to scout for moves from Choice item Pokemon and gives it a free turn of Leftovers recovery. Pursuit allows Escavalier to trap and chip down Pokemon such as Metagross, Mega Sceptile, and Shaymin. Knock Off, alternatively, can remove items from defensive Pokemon like Registeel, Bronzong, Porygon2, and Slowbro. The given EV spread allows Escavalier to hit as hard as possible while avoiding the 2HKO from Nidoqueen's Earth Power, assuming Escavalier uses Protect once for Leftovers recovery. Escavalier should use its bulk and defensive typing to pivot into Pokemon such as Gardevoir, Shaymin, and Mega Sceptile. Once in battle, it can begin spamming Megahorn, which is very powerful but risks missing, or Iron Head, which picks up KOs more safely and hits targets like Bewear, Mismagius, and Florges that can take Megahorn. Use Protect to scout for moves from Choice item Pokemon, especially Trick and Switcheroo from Gardevoir and Noivern, and give Escavalier a free turn of Leftovers recovery so it can continue pivoting into special attackers. Protect is also great for scouting for Fire-type coverage from the likes of Nidoqueen, Goodra, and Venusaur, and it allows Escavalier to take less damage from Z-Moves. Pursuit should be used to trap Bronzong and frail Pokemon that cannot really hurt Escavalier, like Shaymin and Gardevoir Choice locked into their respective STAB moves. Since Escavalier needs its Leftovers to regain its health, it needs to steer clear of Knock Off, Trick, and Switcheroo, and its teammates should make sure that entry hazards are cleared. Fire-type checks such as Zygarde-10%, Slowbro, and Hariyama are practically mandatory when running Escavalier. Fire-types such as Salazzle, Ninetales, and Arcanine pair well with Escavalier, as they can take on the bulky Steel-types that give Escavalier trouble. Pokemon such as Roserade, Salazzle, Passimian, and Necrozma appreciate Escavalier's ability to pivot into and Pursuit trap Psychic-types, giving them an easier time setting up and cleaning later. Necrozma and Roserade can further limit the ability of foes to switch into Escavalier by setting up entry hazards, while Passimian can provide U-turn support to allow Escavalier to come into battle safely. Teammates like Raikou, Shaymin, and Mega Sceptile can support Escavalier by taking care of bulky Water-types that it doesn't threaten. Knock Off sponges such as Z-Move Virizion and Acrobatics Passimian can also help Escavalier by allowing it to keep its Leftovers. Healing Wish and cleric support from the likes of Gardevoir, Shaymin, and Florges can help keep Escavalier healthy, since it lacks a reliable method of recovery. Pursuit allows Escavalier to trap frail Pokemon that do not want to stay in against it like Choice-locked Shaymin, Gardevoir, and Mega Sceptile lacking Hidden Power Fire. Knock Off can deal solid damage to and remove items from defensive switch-ins like Registeel and Porygon2. Drill Run can catch Fire-type switch-ins like Salazzle and Ninetales off guard as well as deal a good amount of damage to Nidoqueen, Registeel, and Toxicroak. With the given EV spread, Escavalier outspeeds uninvested base 30 Speed Pokemon like Slowbro and Snorlax and still has a considerable amount of bulk to pivot into Pokemon like Shaymin and Gardevoir. While Escavalier can pivot into certain special attackers, it also greatly appreciates coming into battle with the help of a pivot, since this set lacks the passive recovery that Leftovers provides. Escavalier's STAB moves should be used the most on this set; Megahorn has absurd power, but Iron Head is safer due to its better accuracy. Use Pursuit to chip down foes that do not want to stay in against Escavalier such as Roserade lacking Hidden Power Fire, Shaymin locked into Seed Flare, and Bronzong. If running Knock Off, use it to cripple defensive switch-ins like Porygon2 and Registeel. Drill Run should be used to catch Pokemon like Metagross, Salazzle, and Toxicroak off guard as they pivot into Escavalier expecting a STAB move. Keep Escavalier as healthy as possible so it can continue to wallbreak. A check to Fire-types, such as Zygarde-10%, Goodra, or Snorlax, is required when running Escavalier. Because it lacks Leftovers recovery, pivots such as Passimian, Flygon, and Noivern are good Pokemon to pair with Escavalier so it can enter the battle safely. Healing Wish users like Shaymin and Gardevoir are also recommended, since they can heal Escavalier if it has sustained prior damage. Setup sweepers like Raikou, Salazzle, and Virizion also appreciate Escavalier weakening the opposition so they have an easier time cleaning up late-game. Raikou and Stone Edge Virizion can also help Escavalier beat bulky Water- and Flying-types. Offensive Pokemon such as Roserade, Passimian, and Necrozma appreciate Escavalier's ability to Pursuit trap Psychic-types, giving them an easier time setting up and cleaning later. Roserade and Necrozma can also set entry hazards to limit the ability of foes to switch into Escavalier. Finally, entry hazard removers such as Mega Blastoise, Mandibuzz, and Golbat can help Escavalier by letting it switch into battle more often. An alternative EV spread of 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe on the tank set allows Escavalier to hit much harder and outspeed uninvested base 30 Speed Pokemon like Slowbro and Snorlax. This, however, comes at the cost of Escavalier's bulk. A set utilizing Swords Dance / Megahorn / Rest / Sleep Talk can make Escavalier a dangerous late-game cleaner provided its checks are taken care of, but it requires too much support to function well. Toxic can catch bulky Water- and Flying-types off guard, but Escavalier's other utility options are usually better.
Escavalier (SS competitive strategy): Escavalier offers a useful blend of offensive and defensive traits that makes it an excellent answer to common foes like Snorlax and Diancie. Its Swords Dance sets are potent wallbreakers that can easily dispatch physical walls like Vileplume and Mudsdale whereas its specially defensive set provides teams with a sturdy answer to special attackers such as Starmie, Kingdra, and Choice Specs Decidueye. Additionally, Escavalier is fantastic at luring in and crippling defensive staples like Talonflame, Mudsdale, and Mantine with Knock Off, which makes them much easier to overwhelm throughout a battle. In spite of this, however, Escavalier itself struggles to successfully deal with its counterplay on its own; it can't outduel defensive Fire-types, and bulky Water-types like Mantine and Vaporeon can force it out with the threat of a Scald burn. Additionally, Escavalier is vulnerable to being lured in and heavily damaged or OHKOed by Pokemon like Sylveon and Exploud that it otherwise is a solid answer to. Escavalier's also very reliant on its item for recovery, which makes item removal from the likes of Vileplume and Guzzlord problematic. Lastly, Escavalier's poor Speed makes it easy for faster foes like Salazzle and Toxicroak to dispatch. The combination of Knock Off and Toxic makes it difficult for Pokemon like Talonflame, Mantine, and Arcanine to take advantage of Escavalier. Protect complements this move combination well, letting Escavalier poison stall foes and scout powerful Choice item attackers like Tyrantrum, Gallade, and Guzzlord. Swords Dance instead of Toxic is also viable so that Escavalier can take advantage of passive foes like Vileplume and Xatu. Escavalier is very effective at luring in and crippling bulky Water-types like Mantine and Vaporeon with Toxic; this makes Pokemon like Starmie, Salazzle, and Inteleon effective teammates. In return, Starmie and Inteleon can easily get rid of Fire-types, while Salazzle can work alongside Escavalier to bypass said foes. Despite Escavalier not being helpless against opposing Fire-types, it still appreciates teammates like Guzzlord, Vaporeon, and Diancie that can directly deal with them. Escavalier also benefits from physically defensive teammates such as Sylveon and Mudsdale to take on powerful physical attackers. Cleric support from teammates like Sylveon and Vaporeon is helpful so Escavalier doesn't have to worry as much about burns; these two can also supply Wish support for it, greatly boosting its longevity. Close Combat provides necessary coverage for Copperajah and opposing Escavalier, while Knock Off prevents Fire-types like Talonflame, Salazzle, and Arcanine from freely switching into Escavalier. The listed EV spread allows Escavalier to outpace Dhelmise, but other spreads are possible too. For example, Escavalier can also opt for much bulkier spreads so it can better take attacks like Exploud's Boomburst and Rotom-C's Thunderbolt. Escavalier appreciates the removal of Fire-types like Salazzle, Talonflame, and Arcanine so it can more freely wallbreak; teammates like Inteleon, Mantine, and Guzzlord are effective here. Late-game cleaners like Dragon Dance Tyrantrum and Swords Dance Decidueye benefit from Escavalier shredding opposing defensive cores and weakening physical walls like Mudsdale and Vileplume. In return, the former helps pressure Fire-types, whereas the latter can deal with Water-types. Pokemon such as Ninjask appreciate Escavalier's ability to handle Fairy-types; in return, Ninjask can bring Escavalier in against such foes with U-turn. Choice Band turns Escavalier into an extremely potent wallbreaker with minimal defensive counterplay, although this set is very prediction reliant and can struggle to reliably get by bulky Fire-types like Talonflame and Arcanine. RestTalk gives Escavalier improved longevity, helps if Escavalier loses its Leftovers to Vileplume's Corrosive Gas, and can remove burn inflicted by Talonflame's Flame Body and Rotom-C's Will-O-Wisp. Heavy-Duty Boots is an especially good item on such sets, making Escavalier much harder to wear down through entry hazard damage.
Revavroom (SV competitive strategy): Revavroom is a solid setup sweeper, outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame after using Shift Gear. Revavroom's typing helps it find setup opportunities against Pokemon like Ogerpon-C and Scizor, and it carries helpful resistances against the priority moves of revenge killers like Lokix, Weavile, and Scizor. High Horsepower is Revavroom's strongest coverage move against Steel-types like Excadrill, Cobalion, and Heatran. Revavroom can alternatively run Temper Flare over Iron Head to roll past Skarmory and Air Balloon Steel-types like Excadrill and Tinkaton. Doing this also improves Revavroom's coverage against Scizor. However, dropping Iron Head makes Revavroom more reliant on Gunk Shot for its STAB move, hurting its consistency when it aims to drop threats like Tornadus-T, Latios, and Enamorus-T. Air Balloon creates windows for Revavroom to set up against Pokemon with Ground-type moves, including Excadrill, Hydrapple, the Ogerpon formes, and Tyranitar. It can also turn Clodsire into setup fodder for Revavroom. Filter enables Revavroom to stomach super effective attacks, like Heat Wave from Tornadus-T, while it sets up. Tera Ground powers up High Horsepower, making +1 Revavroom overwhelmingly likely to OHKO Cobalion without any prior chip damage. Skeledirge can be 2HKOed by Tera Ground High Horsepower, making it an unsafe switch-in to Revavroom. Revavroom is a great feature on hyper offense teams, where its capacity to set up and sweep is most appreciated. Revavroom's good defensive typing gives more offensive and fast-paced teams some more resilience. Fellow setup sweeper teammates like Scizor and Thundurus-T can join Revavroom in offensive cores that overload foes like Skarmory, Slowking, and Heatran. Greninja can take advantage of Skeledirge entering the field to stop Revavroom from sweeping, while Revavroom can use Pokemon Greninja struggles against, such as Assault Vest Tornadus-T and Choice Scarf Zarude, as setup opportunities. Deoxys-S's entry hazards break Ogerpon-C's Sturdy, enabling Revavroom to more reliably sweep Ogerpon-C variants that have Stomping Tantrum in case its Air Balloon has been popped.
Kyurem (BW competitive strategy): Kyurem is a decent wallbreaker against balance teams thanks to its high Special Attack and fantastic Ice- + Ground-type coverage, which hits a majority of the metagame hard and forces a lot of switches. Its bulk and resistances are also excellent, letting it easily set up Substitute on common defensive Pokemon like Tentacruel, Rotom-W, Politoed lacking Encore, and Ferrothorn lacking Gyro Ball. It can also take a hit from other Pokemon like Starmie and Heatran. Kyurem's Speed tier lets it outpace some offensive Pokemon, like Dragonite, Excadrill, Breloom, and Heatran. However, it's outsped by Pokemon like Keldeo, Garchomp, Latios, and Alakazam, all of which are incredibly common and hit it super effectively. Kyurem is also reliant on having Substitute up to wallbreak properly, as it's otherwise forced out or crippled by Pokemon like Jellicent, Heatran, and Politoed. By extension, it must be careful when coming in on these bulky Pokemon. It can also struggle to break through bulky offensive threats that threaten it, like Tyranitar, Reuniclus, and Volcarona. Kyurem is very vulnerable to residual damage due to not healing with Leftovers in sand and being weak to Stealth Rock, forcing it to spend turns using Roost instead of attacking. Kyurem also faces competition as a Dragon-type wallbreaker from Pokemon like Latios, Dragonite, and especially Kyurem-B, due to them more easily fitting on teams, relying less on setup to wallbreak, and having more defensive utility. Earth Power provides near-perfect coverage alongside Ice Beam, hitting Pokemon like Jirachi, Heatran, Tyranitar, and Tentacruel super effectively while also hitting other Water-types like Politoed and Keldeo decently hard. Substitute allows Kyurem to punish switches, protect itself from common status spreaders like Rotom-W, Politoed lacking Encore, and Tentacruel, and more freely attack. It also pairs well with Pressure to PP stall attacks like Hydro Pump and Focus Blast. Roost allows Kyurem to heal off entry hazard and Substitute damage while making it a long-term check to common bulky Pokemon like Rotom-W, Heatran, and Ferrothorn lacking Gyro Ball. 56 HP makes Kyurem's Substitute have 101 HP, letting it withstand one Seismic Toss or Night Shade from Chansey, Jellicent, and Xatu and survive defensive Rotom-W's Hydro Pump. A Timid nature is preferred to outspeed Pokemon like Landorus-T, Modest Thundurus-T, and Jolly Excadrill. Kyurem fits best on bulky rain teams, which best provide the support it needs and bait in Pokemon for it to set up on while appreciating it threatening sand teams. Politoed brings rain, switches into Tyranitar and Ground-types like Garchomp and Excadrill, punishes Pokemon like Calm Mind Reuniclus with Encore that'd otherwise check Kyurem decently, statuses Pokemon like opposing Politoed so Kyurem can more quickly break through them, and baits in bulky Water- and Grass-types like Tentacruel, Ferrothorn, Gastrodon, and Rotom-W for Kyurem to set up on. Tentacruel keeps entry hazards off the field and takes on Fighting-types like Keldeo and Terrakion, Volcarona, and Steel-types not as threatened by Earth Power, like Scizor and Jirachi. It also lays down Toxic Spikes to put bulky threats like Tyranitar on a timer, letting Kyurem more easily break through them and poison stall them with Substitute. Ferrothorn counters Dragon-types like Latios and Kyurem-B, as well as providing another Water resistance so Kyurem isn't forced to pivot in and use Roost as often. It also provides entry hazard support and appreciates Kyurem breaking through Pokemon like Heatran and Breloom. Landorus-T can pivot Kyurem in safely with U-turn to more easily set up Substitute while also getting Stealth Rock up and checking Ground- and Fighting-types. Choice Scarf Keldeo does well against offensive threats Kyurem struggles against, like Scizor, Volcarona, and Terrakion, while the Choice Specs set can wallbreak in tandem with it to destroy bulkier teams. Jirachi brings Wish and U-turn support to keep Kyurem healthy and pivot it in safely while also answering Psychic-types like Latios, Alakazam, and Reuniclus that threaten it. Excadrill can clear entry hazards, switch into Jirachi, and force in Ground-types like Landorus-T and Gliscor for Kyurem to threaten and set up Substitute on. A Choice Specs set with Ice Beam, Draco Meteor, Focus Blast, and Earth Power could be used as a stronger wallbreaker with more coverage. However, it's too susceptible to residual damage and even weaker attacks as a result of lacking Roost. It's also outclassed by other Choice-item wallbreakers like Latios, Keldeo, and Kyurem-B as a result of their power, Speed, lessened prediction reliance, and defensive utility. Never-Melt Ice could be used over Leftovers to more effectively threaten pivots like Reuniclus, Rotom-W, and Tyranitar and bluff a Choice item. However, Leftovers is crucial to consistently pressure bulky teams over the course of the game and set up Substitute. Dragon Tail can phaze Volcarona and punish switches by racking up entry hazard damage. However, it's generally inferior to Substitute because it makes Kyurem vulnerable to status users and Substitute punishes switches well enough anyway.
Kyurem (XY competitive strategy): Kyurem, while uncommon in the OU tier, is a strong special wallbreaker able to threaten a number of Pokemon with its great STAB moves that are difficult to switch into, such as Clefable, which gets 2HKOed by Ice Beam. Despite facing competition from Kyurem-B as a wallbreaker, as its ability is not as useful as Kyurem-B's Teravolt as well as being unable to run Roost due to needing Choice Specs, it has a higher Special Attack stat than its counterpart, allowing it to run a Choice Specs set more viably. Good bulk along with valuable resistances to Water, Electric, and Grass moves allows it to check threats such as Rotom-W, Manaphy, Serperior, and Mega Manectric. However, weaknesses to common types such as Fighting and Rock with a vulnerability to all types of entry hazard, mainly Stealth Rock, can limit its ability to switch in, and its Speed, although not bad, leaves Kyurem outsped by a number of threats sitting at the base 100 Speed benchmark. Ice Beam is a strong STAB move that doesn't come with any drawbacks, making it a safe option in general and allowing Kyurem to 2HKO relevant targets such as Clefable. Draco Meteor is Kyurem's hardest hitting STAB move, dealing great damage to Pokemon that resist Ice, mainly Water-types such as Rotom-W, Slowbro, and Keldeo. Earth Power provides great coverage in smacking Steel-types that resist Kyurem's STAB combination, such as Heatran, Jirachi, and Mega Metagross; it is also Kyurem's best move to hit Azumarill with. Hidden Power Fire completes its coverage by being able to hit Mega Scizor, which can generally take the rest of Kyurem's moves and threaten it with a strong STAB Bullet Punch. Focus Blast is another good coverage move, being able to OHKO Tyranitar while still netting good coverage against Ferrothorn and having a good chance to 2HKO standard Mega Scizor if running a Timid nature. Maximum Special Attack EVs bolster the power of Kyurem's special moves. Choice Specs lets Kyurem act as a strong special wallbreaker with the drawback of locking it into one move. Maximum Speed with a Timid nature allows Kyurem to outspeed threats such as Jolly Excadrill out of sand and Adamant Mega Medicham. A Modest nature is usually not necessary, as maximum Special Attack investment with a Timid nature is enough to 2HKO both standard Calm Clefable and have a strong chance to 2HKO Ferrothorn after Stealth Rock with Ice Beam. Being able to outspeed Excadrill and Mega Medicham while still achieving a 2HKO on both Clefable and Ferrothorn is what gives Kyurem an edge over Choice Specs Kyurem-B, which fails to achieve the 2HKO most of the time with Timid itself. Removing entry hazards is helpful so that Kyurem can utilize its bulk to switch in more often without having to worry about residual damage. Pairing Kyurem with partners that can bring it in through the use of Volt Switch or U-turn helps it come in safely without having to fear strong attacks it might not be able to switch into directly. Generally, Kyurem should be used as an early-game wallbreaker to punch holes into opposing teams. It can switch into weak Water, Grass, and Electric attacks thanks to its good bulk and retaliate, and it can also be brought in on double switches as well as passive Pokemon such as Skarmory. Ice Beam is the most spammable move to use, dealing a large chunk to a wide variety of threats, and it can help your team handle threats such as Clefable, as it will not be as willing to switch into Kyurem predicting Draco Meteor due to the fear of being 2HKOed by Ice Beam. Draco Meteor is also very useful to take out threats that can take more than one Ice Beam, such as Slowbro and Rotom-W, and can even deal heavy damage to Pokemon that resist it, mainly Steel-types such as Jirachi, thus limiting their ability to switch into Kyurem again, as Draco Meteor is mainly meant to be used as a hit-and-run move; however, be wary of using it with a Fairy-type on the opposing team, as it can gain momentum if Kyurem locks itself into it. If a Steel-type is on the opposing team, you can either stick to using Kyurem's STAB moves to wear it down, or predict the switch in with its coverage moves, although getting locked into the wrong coverage move can give the opponent free momentum, so be careful. Choice Band Tyranitar pairs well with Kyurem, as it helps deal heavy damage to Chansey while being able to trap faster threats such as Latios for Kyurem. Starmie is a great option that can handle threats such as Mega Diancie for Kyurem while also dealing with Keldeo, as well as providing Rapid Spin support. Latios appreciates Kyurem's ability to take out Clefable and provides Kyurem with entry hazard removal and the ability to handle problematic threats such as Keldeo; however, given that Kyurem prefers having entry hazard support, particularly Spikes, Rapid Spin is usually a better hazard control option. Heatran is able to pressure Steel-types, set up Stealth Rock, and provide Toxic support against the likes of Slowking. Landorus-T provides Stealth Rock support and a slow U-turn while being able to handle Excadrill, which can prove to be a major threat to Kyurem under sand, and Landorus-T in return appreciates Kyurem's ability to handle Electric-, Water-, and Grass-types for it. Garchomp fulfills a similar role minus the U-turn support while being able to take on many problematic threats to Kyurem that sit at the base 100 Speed tier such as Mega Gardevoir and Charizard. Rotom-W also checks Excadrill, Mega Scizor, and other threats such as Jirachi thanks to Will-O-Wisp and provides slow pivoting support for Kyurem, while in return it appreciates having Grass-types taken out. Steel-type partners such as Jirachi, Ferrothorn, Skarmory, as well as Mega Metagross and Mega Scizor serve as great partners due to their ability to handle Fairies for Kyurem. Jirachi can provide Stealth Rock support, pivot with U-turn, and pass Wishes or Healing Wishes in case Kyurem gets worn down too much, with Healing Wish, in particular, being very helpful for Kyurem. Ferrothorn and Skarmory are able to set up Spikes, allowing it to more easily wallbreak against worn down foes, and Skarmory can also take on Excadrill under sand. Mega Scizor helps take out Mega Diancie and can also provide a slow U-turn, as well as being able to switch into Latios and Latias while also being able to provide Pursuit support. Metagross also provides Pursuit support with either a Mega or an Assault Vest set. Excadrill greatly appreciates Kyurem being able to threaten strong checks to it such as Landorus-T and Tangrowth, and Kyurem benefits from potential Rapid Spin support that Excadrill may provide. Stealth Rock Clefable is a notable partner, since it can get the hazard up against stall teams for Kyurem and can also provide Thunder Wave support for it. Kyurem utilizes the combination of Substitute, Roost, and Pressure to stall out attacking moves while retaining a solid offensive presence with its Ice- and Ground-type coverage. Between its natural resistances and typing, Kyurem finds many opportunities to set Substitute on foes unable to touch it, like Cresselia, Rotom-W, and Ferrothorn. This gives it a unique position as an attacker, as the safety of Substitute lets it safely throw out attacks while being unafraid of status and able to severely dent revenge killers like Mega Alakazam, Mega Lopunny, and Sand Rush Excadrill. Once behind a Substitute, Kyurem is also able to safely PP stall, letting it outlast attacks like Ferrothorn's Gyro Ball and Tyranitar's Stone Edge. Even higher PP attacks like Clefable's Moonblast or Mega Venusaur's Sludge Bomb are susceptible to being drained over the course of a match. Roost facilitates all of this, keeping Kyurem healthy enough to comfortably use Substitute. 56 HP EVs let Kyurem's Substitute survive one Seismic Toss or Night Shade, allowing it to consistently have one active against Chansey, Cofagrigus, and Jellicent. With 200 Speed EVs and a Timid nature, Kyurem capitalizes on its respectable Speed tier, outspeeding threats like Excadrill. The remaining EVs are invested into Special Attack to maximize its power, supporting its role as a breaker. Leftovers gives it passive recovery to sustain frequent Substitute usage. Alternatively, Metronome enables Kyurem to break through neutral targets like Clefable, Gastrodon, and Slowbro more easily after accumulating enough boosts. Maintaining an active Substitute is often a crucial step towards enabling Kyurem's offensive potential. Foes like Rotom-W, Cofagrigus, and Slowbro present one such opportunity, as they are unable to break its Substitute. Moreover, others like Dragonite, Bisharp, and Landorus-T are both outsped and immediately threatened by Kyurem's coverage; this allows it to forcefully set up a Substitute against them. It should be noted that if Kyurem is met with significant resistance, such as against a team with Keldeo, Azumarill, or Mega Gyarados, switching out is a perfectly valid choice, rather than using Substitute only to give such threats free entry. Given Kyurem's extreme vulnerability to all forms of entry hazards, maintaining a clear field is also important, as the passive damage will otherwise keep it from comfortably using Substitute. It helps that Kyurem itself threatens common setters like Landorus-T and utility variants of Garchomp, encouraging proactive positioning to deny them from setting Stealth Rock. Besides that, avoiding status conditions, particularly burn and poison, is another essential part towards efficient Kyurem usage, as they greatly limit its ability to PP stall by cutting into its longevity. To that extent, be cautious when switching it into Pokemon capable of spreading status, like Rotom-W and Slowbro. Entry hazards like Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes greatly hinder Kyurem's ability to PP stall, as the passive damage forces it into using recovery rather than attacking. Thus, strong hazard control from partners like Excadrill is crucial. Due to Kyurem’s weakness to Steel- and Fighting-type attacks, Zapdos makes for an excellent partner by checking these threats. Moreover, with Static, Zapdos helps to spread paralysis, further enabling Kyurem to spam Substitute against afflicted foes. Should you decide to run Defog, Zapdos' Pressure complements Kyurem's own PP stalling strategy in addition to maintaining a clear field. Cresselia is another exceptional partner, reliably switching into the Fighting-type attacks directed at Kyurem, as well as checking other threats like Mega Diancie, Mega Lopunny, and Mega Metagross. With Lunar Dance, it further enables Kyurem by restoring both its health and PP, allowing for much more aggressive positioning early on. Pokemon like Clefable and Volcanion are other valuable partners for their ability to absorb status conditions such as burn and poison, which Kyurem despises taking. Cleric support from the likes of Clefable, Chansey, and Mega Altaria also proves useful to cleanse status altogether. Offensive partners ideally target these same Steel- and Water-types alongside Kyurem, with the likes of Azumarill, Mega Alakazam, and Volcanion helping to overwhelm shared checks. Azumarill is notable for being a strong physical wallbreaker that checks the offensive Water-types like Keldeo and Mega Gyarados that can abuse Kyurem. Substitute + Roost can be a neat set on slower builds to utilize Pressure, Kyurem's good bulk, and its ability to create 101 HP Substitutes in order to PP stall foes, although Kyurem is better suited for being a special wallbreaker due to its hard-hitting STAB moves. Other offensive sets are done better by Kyurem-B due to Fusion Bolt and its ability to go mixed along with having Teravolt, which means it doesn't have to rely as much on prediction as Kyurem does.
Kyurem (SM competitive strategy): Kyurem has an interesting niche thanks to its ability to PP stall several Pokemon with its useful combination of Substitute, Pressure, and Roost. Kyurem's typing and respectable bulk allow it to take advantage of some of the tier's premier walls, such as Toxapex and Chansey, and pivot into Choice-locked Kartana's Leaf Blade and Greninja's Hydro Pump. Its decent Special Attack stat and access to Ice- and Ground-type coverage let it hit a vast majority of the tier for neutral damage and threaten many common Pokemon like Landorus-T, Heatran, and Tornadus-T. However, Kyurem's mediocre base 95 Speed leaves more to be wished for in a metagame full of faster threats that can beat it, such as Mega Alakazam, Mega Medicham, and Kartana. Kyurem is also susceptible to every form of entry hazard and requires entry hazard control to perform its niche to its fullest potential. Moreover, Kyurem's ability to PP stall takes a big hit if it is inflicted with status, which is fairly common in the OU metagame, and its typing leaves it susceptible to the plethora of Steel-, Fairy-, and Fighting-type Pokemon and moves that plague the tier. Substitute gains Kyurem free attacking turns against Pokemon that are incapable of breaking its Substitute with one attack, such as Toxapex, Slowbro, and Rotom-W; it also eases prediction against certain cores that try to pivot around Kyurem like Heatran \+ Stone Edge Landorus-T. Once behind a Substitute, Kyurem is able to PP stall super effective moves with low PP, such as Ferrothorn's Gyro Ball and Tyranitar's Stone Edge. Ice Beam allows Kyurem to immediately threaten the likes of Landorus-T, Gliscor and Zapdos, with Earth Power complementing it well by hitting Steel-types like Heatran and Magearna. Roost is crucial for keeping Kyurem healthy throughout the match while setting up Substitutes and taking entry hazard damage and for PP stalling foes. 56 HP EVs give Kyurem 101 HP Substitutes, preventing Chansey from breaking them with Seismic Toss. 4 Special Defense EVs ensure Kyurem avoids the OHKO from Mega Charizard Y's Fire Blast. Metronome pairs nicely with Substitute, allowing Kyurem to possibly muscle through defensive Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Celesteela, Clefable, and most importantly Toxapex, which Kyurem would struggle to break through otherwise, thanks to the additional damage per turn. Icium Z lets Kyurem use Subzero Slammer, which is difficult to switch into offensively and defensively. Subzero Slammer is especially useful if Kyurem is behind a Substitute, OHKOing Pokemon that could otherwise stomach a hit and force it out like Mega Alakazam, Tapu Lele, Mega Medicham, and Clefable. Leftovers is an acceptable alternative to potentially give Kyurem more opportunities to use Substitute throughout the game, but it misses out on the additional power that Metronome and Icium Z provide. Kyurem's priority should be to set up a Substitute against Pokemon that it forces out or Pokemon that can't break its Substitute, such as Slowbro and Toxapex or that it threatens out, like Gliscor and Zapdos. Once behind a Substitute, Kyurem's combination of Pressure, Roost, and respectable bulk should be utilized to deplete opposing Pokemon of their PP. Some notable examples include Celesteela and Clefable, as these can be PP stalled out of Heavy Slam and Moonblast, respectively, leaving them incredibly passive if they choose to stay in and try to beat Kyurem one-on-one. Try to keep Stealth Rock and other entry hazards off of the field to keep Kyurem as healthy as possible and maximize its ability to switch into Pokemon it can beat like Toxapex and Zapdos. Leech Seed and status conditions, especially paralysis and poison, hinder Kyurem's ability to PP stall foes, so try not to switch into status-inducing moves and prioritize getting behind a Substitute against status spreaders like Toxapex. Entry hazard removers, such as Tornadus-T, Rotom-W, and Landorus-T, are vital to prevent Kyurem from being worn down over time. Defensive Landorus-T pairs nicely with Kyurem because draws in great targets like Tapu Bulu and Zapdos that Kyurem can take advantage of, using U-turn to bring in Kyurem safely with momentum, and it can also help against physical threats that can threaten Kyurem like Mega Lopunny and Mega Charizard X. Kyurem greatly appreciates Toxic Spikes support to wear down the opposing team over time and make its job of stalling foes out easier. Toxapex is a phenomenal partner, as it can set up Toxic Spikes of its own and absorb opposing ones while helping check Pokemon that trouble Kyurem like Mega Scizor, Volcarona, and Ash-Greninja. Magearna, specifically Shift Gear and Calm Mind variants, makes for a good teammate, as it can take advantage of teams that have been weakened by Kyurem to have an easier time sweeping late-game. Magearna also appreciates Kyurem's ability to pressure opposing Steel-types like Ferrothorn, Assault Vest Magearna, and Heatran. Similarly, threatening wallbreakers like Mega Mawile and Mega Alakazam appreciate the pressure that Kyurem exerts on the Steel-types mentioned earlier and are difficult for offensive teams that can pressure Kyurem to switch into. Magnezone can trap and potentially remove annoying Steel-types like Mega Scizor, Kartana, and Celesteela for Kyurem. Leftovers can be used with to provide Kyurem more opportunities to use Substitute and reduce the amount of turns it needs to waste using Roost. Groundium Z is another option for a Z-Crystal that specializes in punishing Toxapex and Steel-types like Magearna and Jirachi, potentially KOing them after Earth Power the previous turn. Life Orb is a niche set that can be used to make the most of Kyurem's good Special Attack stat and strong coverage, making Earth Power significantly more threatening against Toxapex, and with these sets even tacking on Draco Meteor to obliterate neutral targets like Rotom-W and Manaphy and deal impressive damage overall, though, without Substitute, Kyurem struggles more against Chansey once its option to block status and waste Seismic Toss isn't around. Dragon Tail is a nice option to rack up entry hazard damage on the likes of Chansey and Mega Scizor coming into Kyurem, additionally phazing out Calm Mind Cresselia, though it's a niche option due to being a lot less useful against offensive teams and being hard to fit over other options.
Kyurem (SS competitive strategy): Kyurem functions as a PP-stalling setup sweeper, able to deplete the low-PP moves commonly found in Ubers like Dynamax Cannon, Sunsteel Strike, and Astral Barrage. Unfortunately, that is where Kyurem's niche starts and ends, as it is outclassed offensively by Kyurem-B and Kyurem-W, as well as Rayquaza, and it offers next to nothing defensively, especially when compared to Eternatus. This set attempts to PP stall Eternatus's Dynamax Cannon and Necrozma-DM's Sunsteel Strike PP to later use these Pokemon as setup fodder. Dragon Dance helps Kyurem outspeed key threats, such as Eternatus and non-Choice Scarf Calyrex-S, so that it can use Substitute to PP stall safely and eventually force them out. Icicle Spear helps against Substitute Zygarde-C and has a high PP count so that Kyurem doesn't get Pressure stalled back. The HP EVs allow Kyurem to make 101 HP Substitutes, letting it set up on Blissey and not have its Substitute broken by Eternatus's Mystical Fire. The Defense investment almost always stops uninvested Necrozma-DM's Knock Off from breaking its Substitute. 216 Speed EVs with a Jolly nature allow Kyurem to outspeed maximum Speed base 90s like Kyogre and Zekrom. Kyurem requires a lot of support to work. Because of its crippling weakness to Stealth Rock, entry hazard removers such as Defog Yveltal and Ho-Oh are appreciated. Blissey can check offensive Kyogre and Geomancy Xerneas and doesn't stack a weakness to Dragon. A sturdy Marshadow answer is necessary, so Landorus-T is another great partner. Defensive Xerneas acts as another good Marshadow check and offers cleric support in case Kyurem gets statused.
Kyurem (SV competitive strategy): Kyurem is one of SV OU's strongest offensive Pokemon, utilizing its powerful mixed offensive stats and solid overall bulk to run a wide variety of sets, each requiring different counterplay. Choice Specs makes Kyurem into a wallbreaker and strengthens its already powerful moves, OHKOing much of the tier and chunking even the bulkiest Kyurem answers, like Gholdengo and specially defensive Moltres. Kyurem can act as a sweeper with Dragon Dance, using Loaded Dice to enhance its Icicle Spear and Scale Shot alongside Terastallization to give it the coverage to answer would-be checks, or even go mixed to become a menace even against stall teams. Kyurem's natural bulk enable it to run Substitute + Protect sets to take advantage of Pressure to PP stall foes or even run an Assault Vest to trade with common special attackers like Darkrai and Zapdos while being tough to switch into. Unfortunately, Kyurem's mediocre Speed and lackluster defensive typing can make it challenging to position. Faster Pokemon like Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Dragapult can threaten Kyurem with an OHKO and force it out. Kyurem is weak to Stealth Rock and depends on its item slot for damage, meaning it usually cannot afford to run Heavy-Duty Boots and is forced to rely on entry hazard removal. Moreover, some of Kyurem's sets heavily rely on Tera to boost its damage or provide it with necessary coverage, forcing it to compete with the many Tera-reliant offensive Pokemon in the tier like Enamorus and Garganacl. Additionally, bulky Steel-types like Kingambit, Gholdengo, Scizor, and Iron Crown can soft check most Kyurem sets or possibly force a Tera. When using Choice Specs, Kyurem becomes a devastating wallbreaker thanks to its great offensive typing alongside its naturally sky-high Special Attack. Freeze-Dry helps Kyurem in dealing with bulky Water-types like Toxapex, Dondozo, and common Tera Water users such as Gliscor and Galarian Slowking. Earth Power finds itself in the last slot, allowing Kyurem to hit Galarian Slowking hard as well as Pokemon that resist its STAB moves, examples being Heatran, Kingambit, and Gholdengo. Blizzard is an option over Draco Meteor that should only be run alongside Chilly Reception Galarian Slowking; it deals immense amount of damage to neutral and even resisted targets, letting it overwhelm Pokemon like Galarian Slowking and Gholdengo that tries to pivot around its Ice Beam more easily. Tera Ice provides the most amount of damage possible to its Ice-type STAB moves, which can potentially OHKO naturally high specially defensive behemoths like Clodsire and Toxapex with Ice Beam and Freeze-Dry, respectively, as well as 2HKO offensive Gholdengo and Kingambit with Ice Beam. Meanwhile, Tera Ground can be used to boost up Earth Power, having a chance to OHKO bulky variants of Kingambit and Gholdengo, as well as provide a Rock resistance, which lets it take on Stealth Rock and the dangerous Iron Boulder's Mighty Cleave more easily. Finally, Tera Fairy provides Kyurem with an immunity to Dragon-type attacks such as Dragapult, Walking Wake, and opposing Kyurem's Draco Meteor, coupled with a newfound Fighting resistance against moves like Iron Valiant and Zamazenta's Close Combat and Corviknight and Skarmory's Body Press. A Timid nature is preferred for its ability to outspeed key threats like Tinkaton and Landorus-T as well as Speed tie opposing Kyurem, but a Modest nature can be used for more firepower, letting Kyurem overwhelm its checks like Galarian Slowking much more easily. Kyurem often finds itself in bulky offense teams that appreciate its ability to destroy common walls. While Kyurem's typing is amazing offensively, defensively it makes Kyurem hard to switch in due to its numerous weaknesses combined with its average Speed tier. To solve this, pair Kyurem with pivot users; Kyurem's best friend is Galarian Slowking, which brings Kyurem in safely and provides snow with Chilly Reception as well as switch into Fairy-types like Enamorus and Iron Valiant. Kyurem needs entry hazard removal to not get worn down quickly by hazard-stacking teams; therefore, Rapid Spin users like Great Tusk and Excadrill are great partners. Corviknight can take Fairy- and Dragon-type moves, clear out hazards with Defog, and provides a slow U-turn to get Kyurem in safely. Additionally, Cinderace can use Court Change to use the hazards against the opposing team and can also lure in and pivot out of checks such as Toxapex and Gliscor with U-turn for Kyurem. Hatterene is also a good partner for Kyurem, which can deflect hazards with Magic Bounce, slow down faster threats with Nuzzle, and give Kyurem a second chance at wallbreaking with Healing Wish. Physical attackers like Meowscarada can be used to scare away common special walls thanks to its crippling STAB Knock Off to make Kyurem's attacks more impactful. Another strong physical attacker is Kingambit, which threaten some of Kyurem's checks like Galarian Slowking, Clodsire, and specially defensive Clefable. In return, Kyurem can break past their defensive checks such as Skarmory, Dondozo, and Great Tusk. Gholdengo makes for an amazing partner, as it can switch into super effective moves aimed at Kyurem and threaten Galarian Slowking and Fairy-types with its STAB moves; in return, Kyurem beats Unaware Clodsire for it. Kyurem can take advantage of hazard-stacking teams to be even harder to wall, so common hazard setters like Skarmory, Ting Lu, Hisuian Samurott, and Gliscor can be helpful, with the latter two having Knock Off on their arsenal as well to cripple Kyurem's defensive checks. Dragon Dance Kyurem is an effective setup sweeper that takes advantage of Terastallization, great bulk, and a strong physical STAB move in Loaded Dice-boosted Icicle Spear. Tera Blast Fire hits Steel-types like Kingambit, Gholdengo, Tinkaton, Skarmory, and Corvikight, even Air Balloon variants of the former three. Tera Blast Ground similarly hits Kingambit, Gholdengo, and Tinkaton, notably only if their Air Balloon has been popped, but also other foes like Pecharunt and Heatran. Tera Blast Electric covers Moltres and Water-types like Alomomola and Primarina while still targetting Skarmory and Corviknight. Complemented by Loaded Dice as well, Scale Shot can be used as a secondary STAB move to further outspeed revenge killers like Booster Energy Iron Valiant and Choice Scarf Darkrai at +2. It also gives Kyurem a strong neutral attack against the likes of Alomomola and Cinderace without relying on Terastallization. Substitute is an option to exploit walls like Alomomola and Terastallized Gliscor and protect against Sucker Punch and prospective revenge killers. Its Tera types further enforce the defensive properties of Kyurem. Tera Fire stops foes like Moltres and Cinderace from crippling it with a burn. Tera Ground and Tera Electric provides an immunity to paralysis from foes like Hatterene and Galarian Slowking. Moreover, Tera Fire and Tera Electric flips Kyurem's matchup against Steel-types attacks from foes like Gholdengo, Iron Crown, and Tinkaton, with Tera Fire also providing a safety net against Fairy-types like Enamorus, Iron Valiant, and Clefable. A Jolly nature allows Kyurem to outspeed the likes of Landorus-T, Great Tusk, Tinkaton, and Gholdengo. At the cost of being outsped by the aforementioned targets, an Adamant nature can be considered instead if more power is desired, notably allowing Kyurem to OHKO Raging Bolt with four hits of Icicle Spear and Hisuian Samurott with four hits of Scale Shot after a Dragon Dance. An Adamant nature can still allow Kyurem to outspeed the likes of Dragapult and Zamazenta at +1 as well as Booster Energy Iron Moth and Iron Valiant and Choice Scarf Darkrai at +2. Dragon Dance Kyurem is best used on offensive teams that appreciate a strong physical setup sweeper that can muscle past the bulky Ground- and Dragon-types of the tier. It is one of the few setup sweepers that immediately threatens Gliscor and provides a way for hyper offense to resist the priority from Raging Bolt and KO it. Kyurem wants a teammate to provide some form of entry hazard control like Great Tusk, as Kyurem is weak to Stealth Rock and needs Loaded Dice to output consistent damage. It appreciates the support of Spikes from setters like Deoxys-S and Hisuian Samurott, as most of its checks are bulky grounded Pokemon. For example, one layer of Spikes allows Kyurem to OHKO maximum HP Great Tusk and offensive Zamazenta without a Dauntless Shield boost at +1 and +2, respectively. Kyurem greatly enjoys snow from Alolan Ninetales's Snow Warning, as the Defense boost helps greatly in positioning Kyurem to get the free turns that it needs. Alolan Ninetales can also set up Aurora Veil to further ease Kyurem's setup. Bulky Steel-types like Heatran, Kingambit, and Gholdengo all give Kyurem trouble unless it is Tera Ground and willing to commit the Tera, so teammates like Iron Crown and Knock Off Iron Valiant help to pressure these foes. Bulky Water-types like Dondozo and Primarina can also consistently beat Kyurem one-on-one, so offensive Grass-types like Rillaboom and Meowscarada can be used to threaten them out. These also provide tools like Grassy Terrain to keep Kyurem healthy as it sets up and Knock Off to remove defensive items from Pokemon like Corviknight and Zamazenta. Other strong physical attackers like Zamazenta can help to force in and wear down the Water-types that Kyurem struggles with. Very fast offensive Pokemon like Booster Energy Iron Boulder and Iron Valiant can outspeed even a +1 Kyurem and threaten huge damage with their super effective STAB moves. Because of this, Kyurem appreciates Pokemon like Gholdengo that can take hits from those fast threats and continue to apply offensive pressure. The mixed set brings out the best out of both sides of Kyurem's attacking capabilities, being able to break through would-be checks and thus turn itself into a monstrous wincon. What this set sacrifices in initial power is made up for in its versatility. Physical walls like Dondozo, Alomomola, and Skarmory looking to handle its Icicle Spear get 2HKOed by Freeze-Dry, while special walls like Blissey, Galarian Slowking, and Fezandipiti trying to tank Freeze-Dry take heavy damage from a Dragon Dance-boosted Icicle Spear. Freeze-Dry is preferred over Ice Beam, as it allows Kyurem to significantly damage Water-type foes like Alomomola, Ogerpon-W, and Primarina, and Earth Power targets key foes such as Kingambit, Gholdengo, and Iron Crown that could otherwise take Kyurem on. 88 EVs in Special Attack guarantee the 2HKO on physically defensive Gholdengo with Earth Power. A Hasty nature allows Kyurem to live a Moonblast from Iron Valiant, while a Naive nature makes it take less damage from Kingambit's Sucker Punch. Never-Melt Ice enhances Kyurem's Ice-type attacks' damage output without locking it into one option and guarantees the OHKO with a three-hit Icicle Spear on Dragapult along with an OHKO on Hisuian Samurott with Freeze-Dry. Heavy-Duty Boots alternatively helps Kyurem bypass its Stealth Rock weakness; this alleviates the pressure in the teambuilder to pair Kyurem with strong support in the form of entry hazard removal. Tera Ice further pushes the power of its STAB moves to obscene levels; defensive staples such as Dondozo and Primarina fall in the range of being OHKOed, while Clodsire can’t stand more than two hits from Icicle Spear. Tera Ground instead gives Kyurem a nice boost to Earth Power that ensures the 2HKO on Garganacl and even Assault Vest Iron Crown along with an immunity to Gholdengo's Thunder Wave and Hatterene's Nuzzle. Tera Ground also gives Kyurem a neutrality to Fighting- and Steel-type moves, which can be decisive against Zamazenta, Gholdengo, and Iron Crown. Mixed Dragon Dance Kyurem fits on offensive teams as a wallbreaker capable of breaking past bulkier foes such as Galarian Slowking and Unaware walls such as Dondozo. Kyurem's main roadblock is Zamazenta, which outspeeds Kyurem and only takes neutral damage from Kyurem's attacks while being able to respond with a strong Body Press. Dragapult creates synergy, being able to switch in on Zamazenta's Fighting-type attacks, outspeed it, and force it to switch out. Dragapult can also spread status and overload shared checks like Kingambit to make it easier for Kyurem to sweep. Deoxys-S also makes for a great partner, as it also outspeeds and threatens Zamazenta while providing entry hazard support for Kyurem, which helps to chip down enemies such as bulkier variants of Primarina, Rillaboom, and Great Tusk that could otherwise take a hit. Alternative hazard setters include Great Tusk in more balanced teams and Glimmora or Hisuian Samurott in more offensively lenient teams. Bulky Steel-types that can handle Ground-type attacks like Corviknight, Air Balloon Tinkaton, and Scizor pose a significant problem to Kyurem, and Fire-types like Cinderace can neutralize them at a relatively low cost for themselves, in turn allowing Kyurem to sweep with minimal opposition. When it's opting to run Never-Melt Ice, Kyurem leaves itself exposed to hazards, which minimizes the amount of times it is able to come in a match. Hazard removal in the form of Great Tusk, Cinderace or even Corviknight can then be helpful to ensure Kyurem has a safe entry to wreak havoc. By focusing on its natural bulk and typing to utilize the combination of Pressure, Substitute, and Protect, Kyurem's offensive prowess takes on another dimension by slowly suffocating the opposition with PP depletion while still being difficult to switch into due to its attacking options and solid Speed tier. Attacks such as Gholdengo's Make It Rain, Kingambit's Sucker Punch, Raging Bolt's Draco Meteor, and Tinkaton's Gigaton Hammer are at Kyurem's mercy, while higher PP moves like Clefable's Moonblast and Corviknight's Brave Bird aren't safe either. Substitute also help punish status attempts from foes like Galarian Slowking and Gholdengo and importantly take advantage of the switches Kyurem forces, especially against passive foes like Gliscor, Alomomola, and Clodsire that might not break the Substitute immediately. Moreover, Kyurem's ability to keep a Substitute up consistently against common walls grants it protection against would-be revenge killers like Zamazenta, Iron Valiant, and Choice Scarf Gholdengo, even preventing the latter and other Choice item users like Darkrai and Meowscarada from crippling it with Trick. On top of accruing more Leftovers recovery, Protect notably wastes PP of Encore from Tinkaton, Iron Valiant, and Ogerpon-W and scouts for faster offensive threats like Dragapult and Iron Crown, which is especially important because all of these can still threaten Kyurem behind a Substitute. Another reason it can afford to run Substitute and Protect is that Freeze-Dry and Earth Power provide sufficient and unresisted coverage. Freeze-Dry is the preferred Ice-type STAB move due to it denting bulky Water-types and Tera Water users like Alomomola, Primarina, Gliscor, and Garganacl and having a lot of PP, letting it fish for freeze in longer games, which Kyurem excels in, more regularly. With its Freeze-Dry handling Ground-type answers like Landorus-T, Zapdos, and Hydrapple, the move is perfectly complemented by Earth Power to pressure Galarian Slowking and Ice-resistant foes such as Kingambit, Gholdengo, Tinkaton, Cinderace, and Iron Moth. Tera Ground boosts the power of Earth Power, granting it enough power to potentially 2HKO Galarian Slowking and OHKO offensive Kingambit and Gholdengo. Defensively, it provides Kyurem with a newfound Stealth Rock resistance and lets it keep a Substitute up against Garganacl's Salt Cure and Galarian Slowking's Sludge Bomb. The HP EVs allow Kyurem to make 101 HP Substitutes, preventing them from being immediately broken by Blissey's Seismic Toss. Kyurem is its most effective on bulkier teams, such as semi-stall and balance, that can afford to play longer games while being able to position it carefully, but it can also find a place on even faster-paced offensive teams. Its extreme vulnerability to entry hazards—specifically Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes—in longer games makes hazard removal very necessary, with common faces like Great Tusk, Corviknight, Galarian Weezing, and Cinderace being important teammates; even running a combination of them at once is recommended on bulky teams where Kyurem is the primary offensive threat. Moreover, Corviknight and Cinderace provide pivoting support by bringing it in safely on Pokemon like Gholdengo, Alomomola, and Gliscor—even popping the former's Air Balloon in the process—while Galarian Weezing can spread poison via Toxic Spikes to further take advantage of Kyurem's knack for stalling out turns while absorbing opposing Toxic Spikes. Cinderace has the added benefit of threatening bulky Steel-types like Tinkaton, Iron Crown, and Scizor that can annoy Kyurem as well as crippling foes like Hisuian Samurott, Ogerpon-W, and Assault Vest Alomomola with a burn, preventing them from breaking Kyurem's Substitute in one hit. The aforementioned Corviknight and Galarian Weezing as well as the tier's other walls like Alomomola, Dondozo, Zapdos, Galarian Slowking, Gliscor, and Ting-Lu provide Kyurem with a defensive backbone to fall back on, especially as they can switch into Pokemon like Zamazenta, Enamorus, Iron Valiant, and Dragapult that can threaten Kyurem out if it's not behind a Substitute. Alomomola, Zapdos, and Galarian Slowking similarly provide pivoting duties, with the former providing Wish support, while the latter sets up snow, whose Defense boost lets it survive Close Combat from Zamazenta and physical Iron Valiant from full HP, and absorbs Toxic Spikes as well. Ting-Lu and Gliscor also provide entry hazards of their own, which is crucial in taking advantage of Kyurem's forced switches, especially against foes trying to pivot around its attacks instead of staying in to not waste PP. On the other hand, offensive teammates like Deoxys-S, Zamazenta, and Darkrai are great late-game cleaners that love Kyurem's ability to suffocate passive walls early-game. They also have a better matchup against faster offensive teams that can otherwise overrun Kyurem before it gets going. On more offensive teams, hazard setters like Landorus-T, Glimmora, and Hisuian Samurott are great options—especially Glimmora with its potential Toxic Spikes—while offensive threats like Great Tusk, Raging Bolt, and Iron Moth can keep up the pressure against the opposition alongside Kyurem and have a greater chance at sweeping once it has done its job. Additionally, Hatterene and the aforementioned Glimmora and Great Tusk valuably provide hazard control, with Iron Moth also capable of absorbing Toxic Spikes for these structures. With an Assault Vest, Kyurem uses its natural bulk to serve as a great blanket check for most of the tier's special attackers while being very difficult to switch into due to the near-unresisted combination of Freeze-Dry and Earth Power. The Assault Vest allows Kyurem to comfortably switch into special attackers like Iron Moth, Darkrai, and Zapdos and force them out in return. Ice Beam is mandatory as Kyurem's strongest no-drawback STAB option, with Freeze-Dry to catch Water-types like Ogerpon-W and Primarina and Earth Power to hit Ice-resistant Pokemon like Heatran, Iron Moth, and Gholdengo. Assault Vest Kyurem can run many different options in its last slot. Draco Meteor is used to guarantee an OHKO against Raging Bolt and opposing Kyurem without an Assault Vest and for its devastating power. Dragon Tail is run to phaze Pokemon like Nasty Plot Darkrai and Nasty Plot Pecharunt; it also comes in handy against Assault Vest Alomomola by bypassing Mirror Coat and by phazing whatever Alomomola brings in with Flip Turn. With 252 Defense EVs, Kyurem can run Body Press to catch switch-ins like Kingambit, Tyranitar, and Blissey. This additional Defense investment also allows Kyurem to match up better against threatening physical attackers like Dragonite and Ogerpon-W. Alternatively, Focus Blast can be run to hit Kingambit and Tyranitar, with the downsides of low accuracy and bouncing off Blissey. Other more niche options can be run depending on the specific support or synergy your team needs, like Endeavor, Blizzard, and Ancient Power. 120 HP and 76 Special Defense EVs are run to guarantee surviving a Choice Specs Dragapult Draco Meteor and mixed Iron Valiant Close Combat, with 96 Speed EVs to outspeed Raging Bolt. The spread of 252 Def / 160 SpA / 96 Spe should only be used on variants running Body Press. Another option is a faster spread with a Timid nature to outspeed Gholdengo, Landorus-T, and Great Tusk, though it requires giving up a significant amount of Kyurem's bulk and power. Tera Fairy is run to become immune to Dragapult and Raging Bolt's Draco Meteor, to resist Darkrai's Dark Pulse, and to flip the matchup versus Zamazenta. Similarly, Tera Poison lets Kyurem take hits from Zamazenta and Iron Valiant while also making it immune to the poison (and thereby confusion) of Pecharunt's Malignant Chain and clearing Toxic Spikes. Tera Ground can also be run to boost the power of Earth Power, threatening to KO many Ice-resistant Pokemon, including Gholdengo and Kingambit. Assault Vest Kyurem fits best on bulky offense structures, where its good bulk and trading power shine most. Kyurem appreciates the support of Healing Wish Pokemon, like Enamorus, Hatterene, and Latias, mitigating its low longevity. Tera Fairy Kingambit works especially well with Kyurem, as Kyurem can significantly chip opposing Steel-types like Heatran, Gholdengo, and opposing Kingambit, enough for Kingambit to be free to use its Tera against Zamazenta without fear of being revenge killed. Additionally, Heatran appreciates Assault Vest Kyurem's ability to threaten opposing Kyurem, while Heatran threatens Kingambit in return and provides the team with Stealth Rock. Due to Kyurem's weakness to Stealth Rock, Assault Vest Kyurem is often paired with Hatterene to block entry hazards or hazard removers like Cinderace, Iron Treads, and Great Tusk. Structures like these like to capitalize on their reliable hazard removal by running hazard-weak Pokemon like Tornadus-T. Nasty Plot Tornadus-T partners well with Kyurem by overloading shared checks like Galarian Slowking, Iron Crown, and Tyranitar. Kyurem appreciates the support and utility of fast pivots like Assault Vest Tornadus-T with Knock Off and Landorus-T with Stealth Rock, which also give Kyurem switch-in opportunities with U-turn. Kyurem is often accompanied by Zamazenta, which switches into and forces out Pokemon that check Kyurem without Body Press, like Kingambit, Tyranitar, and Blissey. Additionally, Kyurem and Crunch Zamazenta work together to overwhelm Galarian Slowking for each other and Galarian Slowking-weak teammates, like Iron Valiant and Primarina. Iron Valiant partners well with Kyurem, as its superb Speed with Quark Drive allows it to threaten faster threats that force Kyurem out, like Dragapult, while also providing Knock Off support. As a relatively slow wallbreaker, Kyurem also appreciates the switch-in opportunities provided to it by slow pivots like Alomomola and Galarian Slowking. Alomomola can provide Kyurem with Wish support, giving Kyurem more longevity, while Galarian Slowking sets snow with Chilly Reception, letting Kyurem run Blizzard and utilize the Defense boost from snow. Choice Scarf Kyurem is a niche option used to snipe Pokemon like Dragapult and Ogerpon-W, with the downside of being very prediction-reliant, easy to exploit, and pretty weak without a damage-boosting item. On teams with little to no entry hazard control, Heavy-Duty Boots can be run to mitigate its entry hazard—especially Stealth Rock—weakness, but this comes at the cost of its item slot and, as such, a lot of its damage. Choice Specs sets can run Focus Blast to KO opposing Kyurem and Kingambit as well as hit Air Balloon Heatran and Tera Steel Levitate Pokemon like Latios. Flash Cannon is nice on Substitute + Protect sets alongside Tera Steel to hit opposing Kyurem, Assault Vest Hatterene, and Clefable while not crumbling to Ogerpon-W post-Tera, like with Tera Ground. A set with Substitute, Protect, Dragon Dance, and Icicle Spear with Leftovers can be used to become a setup sweeper that can take advantage of Pressure and the high PP of its moves to PP stall the opposition, particularly passive Pokemon like Alomomola, Toxapex, and Terastallized Gliscor; this set can opt for Tera Steel to set up on Pokemon like Iron Crown and Hatterene or Tera Ghost to set up on Zamazenta and Body Press Corviknight.
Flapple (SS competitive strategy): Flapple is a devastating wallbreaker thanks to its solid offensive typing in tandem with its Hustle-boosted attacks, allowing it to dismantle defensive cores consisting of Pokemon like Pyukumuku, and Altaria. Grav Apple is Flapple's primary STAB move, with its Defense drop punishing switch-ins, reducing Flapple's reliance on prediction. A mixed Life Orb set with Draco Meteor allows Flapple to bypass Grass-resistant Pokemon and physical walls such as Altaria, Qwilfish, and Tangela. On the the other hand, a Choice Band set with Outrage handles specially bulky Grass-resistant Pokemon like Articuno. Sucker Punch OHKOes faster offensive threats such as Choice Scarf Rotom as well as picking off Accelgor and Alolan Dugtrio after some chip damage. Alternatively, Grassy Glide can be used on Grassy Terrain teams, threatening all faster Pokemon that do not resist Grass. Hustle does allow Flapple to 2HKO just about any Pokemon in the metagame, but its accuracy drop, combined with Flapple relying on a drawback-laden Draco Meteor or Outrage to dispatch Grass-resistant Pokemon such as Altaria, makes Flapple somewhat unreliable. Flapple's poor bulk and defensive typing give it few direct switch-in opportunities, so it pairs well with bulky pivots that are able to bring it in safely such as Uxie, Alolan Persian, and Rotom-S. Coalossal and Qwilfish provide Flapple entry hazard support as well as pressuring Fairy-types like Alcremie and Clefairy. Special attackers such as Cramorant and Rotom appreciate Flapple's ability to pressure special walls like Appletun and Stunfisk. In return, Cramorant provides entry hazard removal, while Rotom forms an effective VoltTurn core with Flapple. Ninetales and Rapidash easily handle Ice- and Steel-types like Articuno and Klinklang that Flapple struggles with, while Flapple can break down their checks such as Altaria and Cramorant. Late-game cleaners such as Choice Scarf Sawk and Silvally formes appreciate Flapple's ability to break walls such as Qwilfish and Pyukumuku. Flapple works well on Grassy Terrain teams, supporting its teammates by threatening conventional Grass-type checks like Altaria. An Adamant nature gives Flapple additional breaking power but leaves it outpaced by the likes of Abomasnow and Ivysaur. A Choice Scarf set with a Jolly nature outpaces threats like Alolan Persian and Morpeko, but it is still notably outpaced by Accelgor, faster Choice Scarf users like Sawk, and setup sweepers like +1 Silvally formes.
Heliolisk (XY competitive strategy): With a base 109 Speed stat, Heliolisk outspeeds a lot of common Pokemon such as Infernape, Galvantula, and Cobalion. It also has a great movepool, boasting moves such as Surf, Grass Knot, Focus Blast, Thunderbolt, Hyper Voice, Volt Switch, and Dark Pulse. Heliolisk also has Dry Skin, which provides it an immunity to Water-type moves and therefore allows it to threaten a multitude of Water-type Pokemon in UU. It also has a nice immunity to Ghost-type moves, meaning it can switch into Choice-locked Chandelure and nab a free Volt Switch. While Heliolisk has two immunities and a colorful movepool, it is weak to common attacking types in UU such as Ground and Fighting. This is also exacerbated by the fact that it has pitiful 62 / 52 physical bulk, meaning even resisted physical hits are going to take a chunk of Heliolisk's HP. It must also use Life Orb, which can wear it down even more quickly if it wants to take advantage of its coverage moves. Volt Switch is a STAB move that provides easy momentum for Heliolisk's team. Hyper Voice is a decent STAB move as well, hitting all Ground-types as well as striking targets through Substitute. Signal Beam is for bulky Dark-type and Grass-types, such as Hydreigon and Celebi, that may attempt to switch into Heliolisk's STAB moves. Thunderbolt is a reliable STAB move and secures the 2HKO on Suicune. Surf can be used instead of Signal Beam, as it hits Nidoqueen and Nidoking along with Rotom-H for super effective damage at the cost of reliably OHKOing Celebi. Focus Blast may also be used to hit certain Dark- and Steel-types, such as Hydreigon and Mega Aggron, a lot harder. Focus Blast also nails many special walls, such as Umbreon, Snorlax, and Blissey, harder than any other move Heliolisk has. Maximum Special Attack and Speed EVs allow Heliolisk to outspeed many threats and to hit as hard and as fast as possible. Life Orb boosts the power of all of Heliolisk's attacks while giving it the freedom to switch between its moves, but Choice Specs can be used instead for more initial power at the cost of not being able to switch between moves. A Timid nature allows Heliolisk to outspeed base 108 Pokemon, such as Infernape, Galvantula, Virizion, and Cobalion. Dry Skin is used to allow Heliolisk to switch in on Water-types and threaten them with a Life Orb-boosted STAB Thunderbolt. Fire-types particularly enjoy Heliolisk's ability to absorb Water-type moves and threaten Water-types back with its STAB Electric-type attacks. Entei is a particularly good partner, as it serves as a very good wallbreaker once bulky Water-types are worn down or gone. Flying-types make good partners as well, as they can take care of all of Heliolisk's weaknesses; they resist Fighting-type attacks and take no damage from Ground-type attacks. Crobat is a particularly good partner, as it can form a VoltTurn core with Heliolisk, providing easy momentum for the team. Other U-turn users such as Mega Beedrill and Mienshao can also be good partners and form an effective VoltTurn core with Heliolisk. Rain support from the likes of Whimsicott or Tornadus can prove very helpful, as Dry Skin's recovery under the rain essentially negates the recoil of Life Orb. Thunder can be an option for Heliolisk to use over Thunderbolt, as it gains 100% accuracy under the rain and hits a lot harder. Glare is a great option, allowing Heliolisk to cripple Pokemon that may try to switch into it, such as Ground-types. However, Heliolisk has amazing coverage and would much rather take advantage of that to try and cripple the enemy. Choice Scarf allows Heliolisk to outspeed a lot of common Choice Scarf users, such as Mienshao and Infernape, as well as Crobat and Mega Aerodactyl. Substitute can be a nice move for Heliolisk, allowing it to avoid status, and it can gain HP fairly easily thanks to Dry Skin. Leftovers can be used over Life Orb. Without Life Orb, however, Heliolisk loses a lot of power and cannot 2HKO Suicune. Signal Beam is another option, hitting Grass-types harder for super effective damage. However, like Chesnaught and Roserade, most Grass-types in UU are neutral to Bug thanks to their secondary typing.
Heliolisk (SM competitive strategy): Heliolisk is one of NU's most potent wallbreakers as a result of its stellar offensive typing, high Special Attack, and great Speed tier that allows it to outpace some of the most common Pokemon in the tier in Delphox, Decidueye, and Sigilyph. Heliolisk is also one of the tier's best offensive pivots because of its access to a strong Volt Switch, which is hard to stop due to Heliolisk's impressive coverage in moves such as Hyper Voice, Surf, and Focus Blast. Because of the aforementioned factors, Heliolisk can easily avoid most forms of direct damage and pivot out of unfavorable matchups. Due to Dry Skin, Heliolisk is able to switch into Water-type moves and regain HP, making it the tier's premier bulky Water-type exploiter. However, Heliolisk's bulk is rather poor, especially physically, which makes it harder to switch in on weaker, resisted attacks and on defensive Water-types such as Slowking due to its access to Psyshock. While Heliolisk's Speed tier is solid, it is still outsped and forced out by Pokemon such as Sneasel and Whimsicott. Heliolisk is reliant on its item for its damage output, with Choice Specs variants being locked into one move, which can lead to them being taken advantage of by Pokemon like Dhelmise and Steelix depending on which move it locks into. Volt Switch allows Heliolisk to pivot out of unfavorable matchups while threatening Flying- and Water-types such as Xatu and Slowking and hitting neutral targets fairly hard. Hyper Voice provides good coverage alongside Volt Switch, hitting Dragon-, Grass-, and opposing Electric-types such as Druddigon, Sceptile, and Vikavolt neutrally. Thunderbolt can be used instead to give Heliolisk a stronger Electric-type attack against Pokemon like Vaporeon that doesn't force it to switch out. Surf deals with Rhydon and Steelix, and it also threatens Fire-types like Incineroar and Delphox. Dark Pulse provides Heliolisk with coverage for Decidueye and Dhelmise, which resist its STAB combination and could otherwise switch in with ease. Focus Blast can be used to hit Pokemon that otherwise wall Heliolisk such as Ferroseed and Togedemaru and as well as let it hit targets such as Guzzlord and Silvally-Steel harder than any of Heliolisk's other coverage moves. Grass Knot is an option that still retains coverage against the likes of Piloswine and the aforementioned Rhydon as well as Seismitoad; however, this causes Heliolisk to lose out on coverage for Pokemon such as Delphox and Magmortar. The investment in Speed and Special Attack maximizes Heliolisk's offensive presence and Speed, with a Timid nature allowing it outspeed Pokemon such as Delphox and Sigilyph. Dry Skin gives Heliolisk the ability to freely pivot into Water-type moves such as Scald from Slowking, Aqua Jet from Samurott, and Soak from Pyukumuku and replenish a bit of its HP. However, Heliolisk must be wary of other attacks from the previously mentioned Water-types such as Psyshock, Megahorn, and Toxic, respectively. Choice Specs is significantly increases its damage output, letting break through bulkier Pokemon with ease at the cost of locking Heliolisk into one move at a time. Alternatively, Life Orb increases Heliolisk's damage output as well; it does, however, cause Heliolisk to take damage with every attack. Heliolisk is mainly a wallbreaker, although it can also clean late-game due to its high Speed and Special Attack. Due to Heliolisk's average bulk, it should never take hits when it doesn't need to, as this wears it down even faster and will prevent it from effectively breaking. The ideal ways to get Heliolisk in are after a teammate is KOed or through the use of Parting Shot, U-turn, or Volt Switch. However, Heliolisk can switch into a predicted Water-type moves from Pokemon like Vaporeon and Slowking because of Dry Skin and generate momentum with Volt Switch. Predicting Electric-immune foes to switch in and using the appropriate coverage against them is ideal, as this will allow Heliolisk to more reliably use Volt Switch mid- or late-game. Entry hazard setters such as Garbodor, Steelix, and Rhydon are good partners, since the entry hazards are good for pressuring Heliolisk's switch-ins, allowing it to break them more easily. In return, Heliolisk pressures Xatu, an absolute roadblock for them. Garbodor and Qwilfish are also capable of acting as Fighting-type checks for Heliolisk. Entry hazard control from the likes of Silvally-Steel and Xatu is also important, since it prevents Heliolisk from taking additional damage from entry hazards on top of recoil from Life Orb. Fire-types such as Delphox, Incineroar, and Magmortar appreciate Heliolisk switching into Water-type attacks for them and can break through defensive Grass-types in return. Fighting-types such as Medicham and Passimian are capable of pushing through a lot of the specially defensive Pokemon that Heliolisk finds itself struggling with and appreciate Heliolisk getting them in against these Pokemon for free with Volt Switch. Checks to Fighting-types such as Slowking, Weezing, and Xatu are also rather useful, since most Fighting-types can take one hit and KO Heliolisk in response. Other pivots such as Braviary, Passimian, and Silvally-Steel pair well with Heliolisk, as they complete a VoltTurn core and keep both pressure and momentum going. Heliolisk can make for a decent user of different Z-Moves such as Fightinium Z, Normalium Z, and Electrium Z, as each give it the ability to bypass some of its harder checks without the drawback of recoil damage. However, Heliolisk is much weaker without the boost in power from Choice Specs, becoming unable to 2HKO foes such as Druddigon. Dark Pulse can be used to deal with Dhelmise without forcing Heliolisk to switch out as well as to take on Rotom, Dhelmise, and Decidueye; however, Heliolisk's other coverage moves tend to be more useful. Hidden Power Ice can be used to hit certain checks such as Torterra and Alolan Exeggutor for 4x effective damage, but Heliolisk doesn't appreciate dropping a move for it. Choice Scarf allows Heliolisk to outspeed some of its offensive checks like Sceptile, Choice Scarf Passimian, and +2 Klinklang, but Heliolisk will be much weaker than when using a Life Orb and lose out on its ability to alternate between moves. Thunder is an option if Heliolisk is on a rain team, although its shaky accuracy hurts its reliability when rain is not active.
Heliolisk (SS competitive strategy): Heliolisk is a prominent special attacker because of its great Special Attack and Speed and useful immunities to Water and Ghost, which let it take on common Water-types like Vaporeon, Mantine, Starmie, and Inteleon and pivot into Choice-locked Ghost-types like Golurk and Decidueye. Heliolisk can also run multiple sets, like Choice Specs to break through Electric-resistant Pokemon like Alolan Exeggutor and Guzzlord and Choice Scarf to outspeed Salazzle, Talonflame, and Choice Scarf Passimian. Its coverage from Hyper Voice, Surf, and Grass Knot also gives many ways to target checks like Mudsdale, Gastrodon, and Decidueye. However, its poor defenses can leave it revenge killed by physical attackers and priority users like Passimian, Toxicroak, and Absol, and other fast Pokemon like Choice Scarf Rotom-C, Tauros, and Salazzle can outspeed it if it does not run Choice Scarf. Furthermore, Heliolisk faces competition with Rotom-C as an Electric-type because of its ability to check Ground-types with STAB Leaf Storm and Levitate. Dark Pulse hits Ghost-types that are resistant or immune to Heliolisk's STAB options like Decidueye, Golurk, and Dhelmise. Alternatively, Grass Knot KOes Ground-types like Mudsdale, Rhydon, Gastrodon, and Golurk. Choice Specs helps Heliolisk take on Electric-resistant Pokemon like Dragalge and Decidueye and gives it an easier time getting past defensive Pokemon like Escavalier and Diancie, while Heavy-Duty Boots is an alternative for fewer prediction-reliant plays. Heliolisk should be paired with Pokemon immune to Ground like Xatu, Talonflame, and Mantine to switch into Ground-types like Mudsdale. Xatu and Talonflame can also form a VoltTurn core with it to bring it in safely due to its poor defenses. Drapion and Braviary make great partners to check Grass-types like Decidueye and Dhelmise. Entry hazard support from the likes of Copperajah, Diancie, Garbodor, and Stakataka also wears down foes. Furthermore, the former three Pokemon check Dragon-type threats like Alolan Exeggutor and Guzzlord for Heliolisk. Grass Knot provides necessary coverage for Ground-types like Mudsdale, but Dark Pulse is useful if being walled by Decidueye and Dhelmise is undesirable. Choice Scarf Heliolisk is usually used on teams that need extra support against offensive Water-types like Choice Specs Inteleon and Life Orb Starmie. Pokemon that are immune to Ground like Rotom-C and Xatu are appreciated to check Pokemon like Mudsdale and Rhydon. Talonflame and Xatu form a pivot core with Heliolisk and provide it with opportunities to come in safely. Dark-types like Guzzlord, Drapion, and Scrafty provide utility with Knock Off and check Grass-types like Decidueye and Dhelmise. Powerful physical attackers like Toxicroak, Golurk, and Escavlier make great teammates to take care of specially defensive Pokemon like Copperajah and Stakataka. Entry hazard support from the likes of Copperajah, Garbodor, and Diancie also helps to wear down foes and give Heliolisk an easier time cleaning late-game. Focus Blast can be used to hit Copperajah, Stakataka, and Guzzlord, but this causes Heliolisk to be walled by Golurk, Dhelmise, and Decidueye. U-turn is an alternative over Volt Switch on its Choice Scarf set to not lose momentum against Ground-types while also slightly chipping Grass-types.
Genesect (BW competitive strategy): to revenge kill dominant life forms such as Groudon, Mewtwo, Rayquaza, Timid Palkia, 45-53% to Timid Kyurem-W, and 62-74% to max HP Arceus-Grass. such as Dragon Dance Rayquaza, Garchomp, Shaymin-S, Gliscor, Salamence, common switch-ins, which include Ho-Oh, Lugia, Arceus-Ghost, Giratina, this set much more effective. Deoxys-S, Deoxys-A, and Froslass are good teammate for this, with its ability to lure in Latias, Palkia, and Arceus-Grass, none of which like taking boosted U-turns. Arceus-Fighting still does a good job of luring in Latias, but can also attract Mewtwo and that Arceus-Steel, Skarmory, Forretress, and specially defensive Dialga
Genesect (XY competitive strategy): Genesect is an effective momentum gainer and revenge killer in the Ubers metagame. This is because, when coupled with Download, Genesect's U-turn hits extremely hard, allowing it to keep offensive pressure up and gain momentum at the same time. Download also gives most of Genesect's moves more of an edge. Genesect is also useful for its ability to revenge kill both Latios and Latias with relative ease, which is almost invaluable for offensive teams. Latios and Latias's popularity also harms Genesect in a way, as the ease of Defog support weakens one of its niches as a solid team member on Sticky Web archetypes. Genesect has severe problems with Primal Groudon and Ho-Oh, two very prevalent Pokemon in the metagame, hindering its effectiveness. Furthermore, the slow, bulky metagame means that Genesect has a somewhat harder time denting threats with U-turn, but the decrease in Choice Scarf users gives Genesect a more defined niche as a revenge killer. A strong U-turn is one of Genesect's defining traits, being able to apply offensive pressure and gain momentum at the same time. Iron Head serves as Genesect's secondary STAB option, being able to revenge kill Mega Diancie and some Xerneas variants. Ice Beam is the primary method for Genesect to do damage to Primal Groudon (after a Download boost); it is also able to revenge kill a boosted Rayquaza and is a nice option against other Ground-types and Dragon-types. Explosion has immense utility on most teams, as Genesect can do massive damage to threats such as Extreme Killer Arceus and Ho-Oh, especially with a Download boost, and it prevents any entry hazard removal moves from occurring. If the team requires some form of priority, Extreme Speed is very useful against Geomancy Xerneas and other sweepers that are naturally faster than Genesect, and it can have slight cleaning potential after a Download boost. Blaze Kick can be opted for if Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Klefki present a problem for the team, but it has the drawback of making Genesect become massive Primal Groudon bait if Ice Beam is removed. A Naive nature is preferred on Genesect in order to sponge priority attacks better, but Hasty is required on sets with Extreme Speed or Blaze Kick due to legality issues. The above spread allows Genesect to hit hard physically with U-turn while giving its Special Attack an extra point after a Download boost. If you want more offense or bulk on Genesect, a spread of either 252 Atk / 72 SpA / 184 Spe or 72 HP / 248 Atk / 8 SpA / 184 Spe with a Hasty or Naive nature can outspeed all Choice Scarf base 90 Speed Pokemon while having the option of hitting harder with Ice Beam or taking hits from priority such as Extreme Speed better. Due to the relative freedom of being able to spam U-turn, this is usually a player's go-to option in favorable matchups or against one of Genesect's checks and counters, so try to utilize as much momentum as possible and think smart when switching to specific Pokemon. Though Genesect does have coverage options, it is primarily a revenge killer, so either pick off threats with the appropriate coverage move or U-turn to a different Pokemon to capitalize on momentum. Genesect can also function well as a lead against specific Pokemon, as U-turn can hurt some leads well enough to limit them to one layer of entry hazards by letting Genesect switch to a Pokemon that can revenge kill it with priority or a coverage move. Using Genesect as a Geomancy Xerneas switch-in is not recommended due to Genesect's subpar bulk, so be careful against those variants unless it either has not boosted or is at low enough HP for Genesect to pick it off with a Download-boosted Extreme Speed. Entry hazard support is very useful for Genesect to utilize offensive pressure with U-turn, so entry hazard setters such as Primal Groudon, Klefki, Dialga, and Forretress are very solid teammates. Offensive users of Rapid Spin or Defog such as Forretress, Latios, Latias, and Giratina-O can also assist Genesect by minimizing the residual damage it takes from entry hazards. Zekrom forms a very solid VoltTurn core with Genesect and is able to soft check Ho-Oh, though you should be wary of Primal Groudon when using this core. Wallbreakers and sweepers love having the multiple opportunities to switch in that Genesect can provide, so pairing Genesect with offensive threats such as Extreme Killer Arceus, Xerneas, Mega Salamence, and Rayquaza is extremely beneficial. Despite the archetype being somewhat inefficient due to the prevalence in entry hazard removal, Genesect functions well in Sticky Web teams, as it can pressure Latios and Latias while keeping hazards up with Explosion, so setters of Sticky Web such as Smeargle can work great with Genesect. Genesect's movepool allows it to run multiple moves and sets. A Choice Band set capitalizes on Download and strong U-turns or Explosion to dent bulkier threats, including most of Genesect's checks, but loses the opportunity of revenge killing most of the tier outside of Extreme Speed. Shift Gear can also be used to let Genesect clean up most teams while hitting hard, but it limits Genesect's offensive utility, needs more support due to Genesect's poor bulk, and locks it into a Hasty nature, leaving it vulnerable to priority. Bug Buzz is Genesect's only option for a special Bug-type STAB move, but it pales in usefulness to U-turn and can be punished easily if Genesect is locked into it via a Choice item. Flamethrower is an option over Blaze Kick if physically defensive Steel-types prove to be more of a problem on the team Genesect is on. Thunder can 2HKO Ho-Oh after a Download boost and has utility against Primal Kyogre, but Genesect becomes even more vulnerable to Primal Groudon as a result. Magic Coat can be useful on Genesect to keep burns and paralysis away from it, as well as being efficient against dedicated hyper offense leads in order to shut them down almost completely.
Genesect (SS competitive strategy): Genesect faces a ton of competition in Ubers, having very middling STAB coverage and minimal defensive utility. While its Speed is decent, tying with Yveltal and Xerneas and outspeeding Galarian Darmanitan, its damage output leaves much to be desired. Download's boost is too unreliable, and Genesect is hard-walled by most of the metagame's specially defensive walls. Steel-types such as Necrozma-DM and Ferrothorn can fit on teams more easily, while pivots such as Galarian Darmanitan and Pheromosa outdamage it. Genesect is quite simply outclassed by its contemporaries in every regard. Choice Scarf Genesect tries to generate momentum by forcing switches and pivoting into more favorable matchups with U-turn. Ice Beam helps revenge kill Zekrom, Rayquaza, and Zygarde-C. Flamethrower hits Ferrothorn and Necrozma-DM with varying levels of success. A Hasty nature is preferred over Naive in order to survive +2 Moonblast from Geomancy Xerneas. Teammates such as Galarian Darmanitan and Urshifu-S can be decent pivoting partners, helping wear down common bulky foes such as Eternatus, Yveltal, and Necrozma-DM. Groudon is a fantastic partner, boosting Flamethrower's power by setting sun and forcing Eternatus out. Zekrom and Rayquaza appreciate Genesect bringing them in safely and in return can weaken the opponent's walls. Heatran can beat both Eternatus and Ho-Oh that foregoes Earthquake, with Genesect slowly chipping Kyogre for it. Choice Specs Kyogre appreciates any chip on specially defensive Eternatus as well as Genesect bringing it in safely. Explosion can KO Xerneas after it has been chipped, but the lack of coverage will surely be felt. Thunder with maximum Special Attack EVs helps beat Kyogre and Ho-Oh, but it requires a Special Attack boost from Download to 2HKO them. A Choice Band set with Extreme Speed gives Genesect more revenge killing potential, but it is entirely outclassed by Rayquaza. A Life Orb set utilizing Shift Gear turns Genesect into a setup sweeper, but it is entirely outclassed by Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM.
Archaludon (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Archaludon serves as a solid revenge killer and lure for threats like Hydreigon and Choice Specs Dragapult, which take advantage of Archaludon's defensive variant. Draco Meteor not only OHKOes these Dragon-types but is also powerful enough to OHKO Urshifu-R and Darkrai after minimal chip damage. Thunder Wave lets Archaludon limit threats such as Ogerpon-H, Keldeo, and Spectrier, preventing them from sweeping Steel teams. Flash Cannon OHKOes Iron Valiant and allows Archaludon to pick off Flutter Mane after some damage. Thunderbolt prevents Skarmory and Moltres from gaining free entry into Archaludon. Alternatively, Foul Play OHKOes Ceruledge and Ogerpon-H at +2 after Stealth Rock damage. Since Choice Scarf Archaludon relies on surprise to bait the opponent, entry hazards need to be off the field to avoid revealing that it is not carrying Leftovers. Iron Treads can handle this with Rapid Spin and also serves as a fast teammate that deals with Landorus and Hisuian Goodra for Archaludon. Alternatively, a Choice Band Iron Treads set can be used to remove Iron Hands, Okidogi, and opposing Archaludon while also weakening defensive cores of Ground, Dark, and Poison teams for Archaludon to exploit. Gholdengo benefits from Archaludon providing speed control, allowing it to use more a powerful set like Choice Specs or Nasty Plot to punch holes in opposing teams, overwhelming Gliscor and Hisuian Goodra. In return, Gholdengo provides a Fighting-immune teammate and deals with Iron Hands and Galarian Slowking. Air Balloon Heatran can check opposing Heatran and sets Stealth Rock, which this Archaludon cannot. Heatran also deals with Ceruledge once its Air Balloon is popped, covering for Archaludon's inability to check it without defensive investment. Skarmory provides a Ground-immune, sets entry hazards, and serves as a wincon once special attackers like Dragapult and Hydreigon are baited and removed by Archaludon. Scizor and Bisharp appreciate Archaludon's ability to keep their checks, such as Skarmory, Moltres, and Hydreigon, at low HP or eliminated, and in return, they can clean through opposing teams and remove Flutter Mane and Gholdengo with their priority moves, respectively. Corviknight is an alternative Ground-immune teammate that provides Defog and pivoting in U-turn, which facilitates Archaludon's ability to tear through Dragon teams. Archaludon is the defensive glue for Steel teams, taking on threats such as Dragonite, Ogerpon-W, and Ceruledge. Draco Meteor lets Archaludon gain the upper hand against Dragon teams. Body Press complements Draco Meteor well by heavily damaging Hisuian Goodra, the main check to Draco Meteor for Dragon teams. Aside from this, Body Press also weakens Steel- and Normal-types such as Heatran and Blissey, which can comfortably take Draco Meteor. The synergy between Body Press and Stamina allows Archaludon to handle bulky threats like Ting-Lu and Gliscor effectively. Thunder Wave slows down threats like the Ogerpon formes, Keldeo, and Iron Valiant, which Archaludon can survive a hit from but cannot OHKO back, and also lets Archaludon take further advantage of the switches it forces. Stealth Rock lets Archaludon capitalize on forcing out physical attackers like Dragonite and Iron Boulder further. Alternatively, one can forgo Stealth Rock to broaden the number of targets Archaludon checks. Foul Play enables Archaludon to OHKO Ceruledge and dissuade Dragon Dance Dragonite from boosting further. It can also use Thunderbolt to revenge kill Azumarill and dissuade Skarmory from setting entry hazards against it. 52 Speed EVs let Archaludon outspeed Jolly Azumarill while using the remaining EVs to maximize Archaludon‘s bulk. Archaludon's lackluster Special Defense is its glaring weakness, so specially defensive teammates like Hisuian Goodra, Heatran, and Empoleon are appreciated. Hisuian Goodra can trade blows with Raging Bolt and Primarina; Heatran provides an immunity to Fire-type moves that lets it check Volcarona and deal with Gholdengo, Spectrier, and Flutter Mane; and Empoleon provides Stealth Rock, checks Walking Wake and Heatran, and is able to Knock Off Choice Specs from Hydreigon. Gholdengo provides a Fighting immunity, prevents opposing teams from removing Stealth Rock that Archaludon sets, and can choose to utilize a specially defensive spread to improve the matchup against Dragapult and Keldeo. Gholdengo and Heatran can also choose to run more offensive sets, with Air Balloon Heatran putting opposing Heatran on a stalemate and Nasty Plot Gholdengo dealing with Ursaluna and Iron Valiant. Skarmory is a physical wall that complements Archaludon, as it swaps into predicted Ground-type moves from Excadrill and Great Tusk, sets Spikes to pair with Archaludon's Stealth Rock, and has Whirlwind to further chip down opposing teams and to phaze IronPress users like opposing Skarmory. Bisharp appreciates Archaludon's ability to check Dragonite and Encore Ogerpon-W, as well as the entry hazards Archaludon sets to set up and attempt to sweep Dragon, Water, and Dark teams late-game. Iron Treads can soft check Raging Bolt, remove entry hazards, pivot, and outspeed and remove Landorus and Garchomp with Ice Spinner in a pinch. Corviknight is an alternative Ground-immune teammate that loves Archaludon's ability to put a stop to Dragonite and Ogerpon-W, potentially overpowering Dragon and Water teams afterward when using a Bulk Up set. Archaludon bridges the gap between offense and defense with its well-rounded stats that let it beat Choice Scarf Meowscarada, Dragon Dance Dragapult, and Bisharp for Dragon teams. Body Press pairs well with Stamina and lets Archaludon check Bisharp and Weavile. Flash Cannon pelts Fairy- and Ice-types like Hatterene and Froslass coming in on it, and it also deals enough damage to knock out Iron Valiant in a worst-case scenario. Stealth Rock chips down opposing teams and provides Dragon teams with more breathing room against threats like Enamorus and Swords Dance Ceruledge. The final moveslot is highly flexible and is mainly dependent on Archaludon's teammates. Protect is the most consistent choice, letting Archaludon rack up more Leftovers recovery and scout opposing Choice item users like Excadrill and Enamorus, while Draco Meteor lets Archaludon excel in the Dragon matchup, punishing physical attackers like Dragonite and physically inclined Dragapult that cannot deal with Archaludon. On the other hand, Roar takes advantage of Archaludon's ability to force out most physical attackers and defensive Pokemon and lets Archaludon further wear down opposing teams. Thunderbolt hits Skarmory and Toxapex, which would otherwise take advantage of Archaludon by setting up entry hazards, and chunks Azumarill enough to deter it from using Belly Drum. Stamina punishes weak attacks such as pivoting moves from Corviknight, Meowscarada, and Dragapult. The Defense boost also lets Archaludon overpower Ground-type attackers such as Gliscor lacking Swords Dance and Ting-Lu that cannot break through it after a few boosts. 52 Speed EVs let Archaludon outspeed Jolly Azumarill, allowing Archaludon to check these threats readily. The remaining EVs are used to make Archaludon as physically bulky as possible, notably allowing it to survive an OHKO from Choice Band Excadrill's Earthquake. Although Archaludon can take physical hits with ease, it has trouble taking neutral special attacks, as it is 2HKOed by Choice Scarf Iron Valiant's Moonblast and Dragapult's Draco Meteor and outright OHKOed by Choice Specs Flutter Mane and Hydreigon. Because of this, Hisuian Goodra is a great teammate, as it sponges these attacks reasonably well, forming a great defensive core with Archaludon. Dragapult is immune to Fighting and OHKO Flutter Mane, Urshifu-R, and non-Choice Scarf Iron Valiant if using Choice Specs, and pivot in Archaludon against walls it can take advantage of like Ting-Lu and Blissey. Latios deals with Landorus and Enamorus with Ice Beam, and it can utilize a Choice Specs or Expert Belt set to break down types such as Poison and Ground that Archaludon struggles with. Latias is immune to Ground thanks to Levitate, deals with Fighting-types such as Keldeo and Okidogi, and provides Healing Wish, which gives Archaludon a second chance at walling Meowscarada, Mimikyu, and non-Superpower Ogerpon-W. Dragonite is immune to Ground by typing instead of ability, which helps against Excadrill. It can also make use of Multiscale to let it take on and revenge kill Enamorus and Ceruledge in a pinch, and it can utilize a Choice Band set to clean opposing teams with Extreme Speed after Archaludon has chipped them down. Raging Bolt deals with pesky Water- and Flying-types like Primarina and Enamorus with Thunderclap and also benefits from Archaludon's Stealth Rock. Flash Cannon lets Archaludon deal with Iron Valiant and Enamorus, while also providing a consistent source of damage against Gliscor. However, Archaludon's teammates, like Gholdengo and Iron Treads, usually have these these threats covered, and they would rather Archaludon check Ceruledge or Azumarill instead. 44 Special Defense EVs may be used to let Archaludon avoid an OHKO from Choice Specs Flutter Mane while still making it very likely that Archaludon survives Choice Band Excadrill's Earthquake. 56 Special Attack EVs can be invested to OHKO Enamorus with Flash Cannon, as Archaludon survives any one of Enamorus moves once, but decreased Defense investment can impair Archaludon's ability to be a strong physical wall. Archaludon has a variety of options for its fourth move, namely Thunder Wave to punish switch-ins like Primarina and Volcarona, Dragon Pulse to consistently damage opposing Dragon-types, and Metal Burst to get a surprise OHKO on threats like Flutter Mane, Ceruledge, and Hoopa-U. However, all these moves are usually inferior to the above-mentioned options.
Gigalith (XY competitive strategy): Gigalith's sheer bulk, strength, and access to Stealth Rock make it a popular pick for balance teams and the like. Its typing means that physically offensive Normal-types like Persian, Furfrou, and Raticate struggle to take it down, whereas Pokemon with stronger coverage versus Gigalith like Pignite and Swalot will struggle to trade hits successfully. Stone Edge will deal more damage than Rock Blast on average, consistently 2HKOing Servine and Politoed, whereas Rock Blast is more consistent with its accuracy and the ability to break Substitute and Focus Sash on the likes of Swoobat and Butterfree. Earthquake pairs best with Gigalith's Rock-type coverage, especially versus foes like Swalot and Lairon. Superpower nails Krokorok and Lairon, especially useful given Earthquake lacks a chance to OHKO the latter. It is also Gigalith's strongest coverage move versus Vibrava, although Toxic is another option to punish Vibrava along with other checks like Gourgeist-L. Rocky Helmet is an alternative to Leftovers that chips at offensive pivots like Persian and Furfrou. Lastly, Custap Berry offers the chance for Gigalith to get an extra hit off when it's at low health, which also works as an emergency check to most sweepers if it is still at full health for Sturdy. A staple on most cores, Gigalith pairs with special walls like Duosion, Dustox, and Klang. They deal with the strong special attackers that Gigalith is forced out by, whereas it can check physical attackers like Lairon and Persian. Specially offensive pivots like Electabuzz and Frogadier can position Gigalith on the field to set up Stealth Rock and fire off strong attacks. Poison-types like Ivysaur and Swalot make for good partners, as they can take on Grass-types like Servine and Simisage. In the same vein, teammates like Politoed and specially defensive Servine check offensive Water-types. A Grass-type that can comfortably switch into Earthquake, like Servine or Quilladin, is also a must. Servine specifically can dissuade Defog attempts from Vibrava, which is a Pokemon that gives Gigalith trouble. With the extra power from Choice Band and extra Speed investment, Gigalith makes for a dangerous wallbreaker. It can OHKO slower foes like Duosion and Swalot, and even potential switch-ins tend to be shoddy at best given the raw damage of Stone Edge. However, Gigalith is still slower than physical walls like Gourgeist-L and Meganium, so even with a stronger Superpower, it fails to get past these foes by itself. Heavy Slam offers good neutral coverage, 2HKOing Vibrava as an example. Toxic is an alternative to deal with the aforementioned Grass-type walls that Gigalith still struggles against. Pivots like Electabuzz, Dustox, Frogadier, and Vibrava are all great teammates to position Gigalith on the field versus slower, vulnerable targets. Physical sweepers like Huntail and Klang are also great to have once Gigalith is able to break down opposing physical walls. Knock Off users like Servine, Ivysaur, and Persian are excellent to soften up Eviolite-reliant walls like Bronzor and Vibrava soften up for Gigalith; it can then OHKO these foes with Superpower. Special wallbreakers like Magmar and Swoobat are great to pivot into when Gigalith is forced out by a faster Grass-type. Explosion, especially when paired with Custap Berry, is one way for Gigalith to trade massive damage when it's already at low HP. It is Gigalith's strongest coverage move versus Vibrava, which can come in handy to ensure Stealth Rock stays up, given Vibrava will likely want to come in and use Defog in the favorable matchup, only to get blown up. Custap Berry sets work great as leads so Gigalith can get up Stealth Rock before getting KOed, letting a teammate come in afterwards and threaten Defoggers like Vibrava and Dustox. Investing some EVs into Special Defense can improve Gigalith's matchups against Swoobat and Vanilluxe.
Gigalith (SM competitive strategy): Gigalith's access to Sand Stream, which boosts its Special Defense by 50%, makes it an extremely durable Pokemon with its base 85 / 130 / 80 bulk. Sand Stream is the biggest factor in making Gigalith a good Pokemon, as it makes Stoutland an incredible threat, removes sun, hinders moves such as Synthesis and Moonlight, and provides chip damage that can be an annoyance to the opponent (but to the user as well). Gigalith's movepool is also diverse enough with access to moves such as Stealth Rock, making it one of the most effective users of it, along with Stone Edge, Rock Blast, and Earthquake. In addition, with its Rock typing and incredible defenses, Gigalith makes for a good check against a number of threats such as Swellow, Salazzle, Dragalge, Goodra, and Ninetales. All that said, its typing also gives it a weakness to the common Water- and Ground-types in the tier such as Slowbro, Milotic, Rhyperior, and Flygon. Additionally, Gigalith is pitifully slow, has no recovery outside of Leftovers, and has to compete with other Rock-types in the tier, including Rhyperior, which can be more hard hitting, and Diancie, which has more utility with its Fairy typing and access to Heal Bell. Stealth Rock is almost mandatory on any team, and running it is essential for this set, as its usefulness is too good to pass up on. Stone Edge provides the necessary STAB move of choice, although Rock Blast is another option to consider that is more accurate and has more PP while being weaker most of the time, making it miss out on crucial 2HKOs that Stone Edge would get, with the biggest example being Shaymin. Earthquake provides good coverage and hits Pokemon that would otherwise check Gigalith, such as Nidoqueen. Toxic is used in the final slot to cripple bulky switch-ins such as Slowbro and Donphan. Throat Chop is an option to heavily damage Bronzong. The EV spread is straightforward with all points invested into HP and Special Defense with a Careful nature to make Gigalith able to check the Pokemon that it needs to. However, Impish with the same EV spread can be used to make Gigalith take hits from the likes of Honchkrow and Drapion a lot better while giving up some Special Defense. Leftovers is Gigalith's only form of recovery, so it needs it. Despite this, Smooth Rock is an option for sand-oriented teams, and it can make Stoutland's life easier by prolonging sand turns. Use Gigalith to set up Stealth Rock early in the game, and then try to keep it alive to potentially check Pokemon like Swellow and Salazzle later. If the opponent has certain entry hazard removers such as Mega Blastoise and Donphan, attempt to weaken them with attacks or Toxic before prioritizing Stealth Rock. Many threatening Pokemon such as Metagross, Virizion, Rhyperior, and Bewear may use Gigalith as a chance to come in freely on Stealth Rock or a Rock-type move, so either wearing them down with Earthquake and Toxic or switching out into a better matchup can prevent them from consistently getting chances to threaten Gigalith’s team. Toxic is also generally useful for crippling bulky switch-ins such as Slowbro and Palossand. Additionally, if you have Stoutland, then consider keeping Gigalith to set up sand in preparation for Stoutland's sweep. Stoutland is the most obvious choice for a partner, as it greatly benefits from sand doubling its Speed. Grass-types in general have good synergy with Gigalith, making Pokemon like Shaymin, Roserade, and Virizion good partners. Roserade can also set up Spikes. Keep in mind, however, that sand being present will hinder Synthesis's healing ability. Additionally, bulky Water-types such as Slowbro, Milotic, and Mantine make for good teammates despite the shared Grass weakness for their ability to switch into and check Pokemon such as Donphan, Flygon, and Metagross. Sigilyph makes for a decent partner also, since it has Magic Guard, which avoids the chip damage from sand, while offering Defog support and protection against opposing Fighting- and Ground-types such as Pangoro, Machamp, Virizion, and the aforementioned Flygon and Donphan. Gigalith can run an offensive Choice Band set, but it is mostly outclassed in that role by Rhyperior and Tyrantrum. A set consisting of Curse alongside Rest, Stone Edge or Rock Blast, and Sleep Talk can be utilized, but a Curse set can be pulled off better by the likes of Snorlax. Explosion with possibly a Normal Gem is an option that can be used to retain momentum while going out with a bang to bring another Pokemon in safely, but it's a waste of Gigalith's bulk on balance teams and its ability to check multiple threats.
Gigalith (SS competitive strategy): Gigalith’s excellent natural bulk in tandem with Sand Stream allows it to act as one of PU’s most widely useful Pokemon. Its typing allows it to resist common threats such as Galarian Articuno, Ribombee, and Charizard, and with base 135 Attack, it is by no means passive. However, Gigalith has no means of recovery outside of Leftovers and is prone to being worn down. Its pure Rock typing can be a detriment at times, as Pokemon such as Eldegoss can come in on it for free and proceed to remove Gigalith’s hazards while threatening it out with its STAB moves. Stone Edge can be run over Rock Blast for more immediate damage, but its low PP and accuracy make it unreliable at times. Earthquake prevents Pokemon like Togedemaru and Aggron from taking advantage of Gigalith. Protect is used to scout for Choice-locked Pokemon such as Trevenant and Togedemaru, as well as to gain additional Leftovers recovery and rack up residual Sandstorm damage. Toxic can be run to cripple Pokemon such as Whimsicott and punish safe switch-ins such as Regirock and Palossand, which would otherwise come in on it for free. Sand Rush users like Sandslash and Lycanroc can more easily break through or sweep opposing teams with Gigalith's sand supporting them. Gigalith should be paired with team members that can deal with Water-, Grass-, or Fighting-types, such as Lanturn, Ferroseed, and Weezing. Lanturn is also able to support Gigalith with Heal Bell, allowing it to better check Pokemon like Charizard that commonly run Toxic, while Ferroseed can cripple switch-ins like Charizard with Knock Off while giving Gigalith switch-in opportunities. Other teammates such as Doublade and Whimsicott appreciate Gigalith’s ability to handle Fire- and Flying-types, and Whimsicott also deals with the Water- and Ground-types that give Gigalith trouble.
Hoopa (XY competitive strategy): Hoopa is a potent wallbreaker with a good offensive Psychic / Ghost typing and an enormous movepool. Possessing the highest Special Attack stat in RU, Hoopa is a fearsome Pokemon, with coverage moves such as Hyperspace Hole, Shadow Ball, and Focus Blast. Hoopa's Special Defense paired with its Ghost typing allows it to be an effective spinblocker against the primary Rapid Spin user in the tier, Blastoise. Unfortunately, Hoopa is particularly lacking in Speed and Defense and therefore should be switched in very carefully against strong physical attackers. Its typing may be useful offensively, but it makes it 4x weak to Dark- and Ghost-type moves. Pursuit trappers are a challenge for Hoopa, as they have a high chance to OHKO it even if it does not switch out. Furthermore, Hoopa should be wary of Pokemon like Meloetta, as they are known to carry Shadow Ball as coverage. Shadow Ball targets opposing Ghost-and Psychic-types. Hyperspace Hole allows Hoopa to bypass Protect, which helps against clerics such as Alomomola and Aromatisse; it targets Fighting- and Poison-types super effectively as well. However, Psyshock can be used over Hyperspace Hole because it hits specially defensive Pokemon, such as Diancie, for more damage. Focus Blast allows Hoopa to hit several Pokemon super effectively, including Dark-, Ice-, Rock-, Normal-, and Steel-types; it is particularly important for hitting Dark-types, which resist Hoopa's Psychic- and Ghost-type STAB moves and can Pursuit trap Hoopa. Knock Off is used to cripple opposing Pokemon by getting rid of their items and particularly is needed for hitting Meloetta hard. Special Attack and Speed are maximized because Hoopa is an offensively oriented Pokemon and does not really require any bulk to optimally function. A Life Orb is used to maximize Hoopa's damage output. A Timid nature can be used to outspeed Pokemon like Modest Venusaur and Modest Magneton, but a Modest nature is preferred for the increase in power and still lets Hoopa outspeed threats like Modest Exploud and Jolly Scrafty. Modest and Timid are generally used over Mild and Hasty, as Knock Off still 2HKOes Colbur Berry-lacking variants of Meloetta without the boost, and the extra Defense can be useful to take less damage from physical attacks. However, they can be used to make sure Knock Off's power is not decreased and to increase the chance of 2HKOing Assault Vest Escavalier with the combination of Knock Off and Shadow Ball. Hoopa is primarily used as a wallbreaker and works well against balance, semi-stall, and stall builds. Thanks to its high Special Defense, Hoopa can usually be switched into Pokemon like Blastoise and Alomomola if they lack Knock Off. It is important to scout for Knock Off on Alomomola, as this can be very threatening to Hoopa, and it is one of the key Pokemon that you can take advantage of with Hyperspace Hole. Try not to reveal Hyperspace Hole until the opposing Wish user is pressured to use Protect, believing that it is safe to stay in to receive the Wish. Hoopa works well with hazard-stacking teams as a spinblocker and particularly appreciates Spikes and Toxic Spikes support. Furthermore, Hoopa should be not be sent into battle until the opposing Pursuit trapper has fainted. Because of its poor Defense, Hoopa should avoid staying in on strong physical attackers. Finally, try to avoid paralysis, as it heavily cripples Hoopa. Pokemon that can help beat Pursuit trappers and Dark-types are extremely helpful partners. Thus, Fighting-types such as Virizion, Hitmonlee, and Gurdurr make for good teammates. Colbur Berry Meloetta can lure in and KO Pursuit trappers while also performing well against faster teams. Hoopa appreciates Spikes support to weaken opposing Pokemon and secure KOs. Pursuit trappers can be helpful in getting rid of Meloetta, which can survive Hoopa's STAB moves easily. Pokemon that appreciate Hoopa's wallbreaking potential and that can clean late-game such as Sneasel, Jolteon, and Fletchinder are extremely helpful. Partners that help in checking common fast physical attackers are appreciated due to Hoopa's lackluster Defense. Finally, Hoopa appreciates Pokemon with Volt Switch and U-turn, as it can switch in freely without taking damage; hence, Flygon, Jolteon, and Lanturn are good teammates. Shadow Ball is a strong STAB move that hits Ghost- and Psychic-types super effectively. Psyshock primarily targets Fighting- and Poison-types and is preferred over Psychic because it secures the OHKO on Virizion. However, Psychic can hit physically defensive Pokemon for much more damage and has a higher Base Power than Psyshock. Focus Blast is used to hit Ice-, Normal-, Rock-, Steel-, and more importantly Dark-types, which resist Hoopa's STAB moves and often can Pursuit trap Hoopa. Trick is used to cripple bulky Pokemon such as Alomomola and Registeel that Choice Scarf Hoopa cannot easily deal with. Choice Scarf allows Hoopa to act as a revenge killer, though it can still function as a decent wallbreaker due to its very high Special Attack. Choice Scarf Hoopa's Speed tier allows it to outspeed most Pokemon besides Jolteon, Aerodactyl, Accelgor, and other Choice Scarf users with a higher Speed tier. Special Attack is maximized because this is an offensively oriented set, and maximum Speed is needed to outspeed several threats, such as +1 Scrafty. A Timid nature is essential to outspeed threats like Sneasel. Choice Scarf Hoopa should be primarily used as a revenge killer but can be used as wallbreaker due to its high Special Attack. Try to preserve Hoopa until opposing Pursuit trappers have fainted, as they pose a high threat to it. Only Trick Hoopa's Choice Scarf away when your team does not require speed control anymore or when you need to cripple a wall that is hard to break. Try not to switch in on Pokemon that can inflict paralysis, as it will cripple Choice Scarf Hoopa. Do not bring Hoopa in on super effective moves or physical attacks due to its lack of physical bulk. Be wary of Aerodactyl, which naturally outspeeds Choice Scarf Hoopa and can carry Pursuit. Choice Scarf Hoopa appreciates Pokemon that can get rid of Dark-types so that it can safely lock itself into a STAB move. For this reason, Fighting-types such as Scrafty, Gurdurr, and Virizion or Fairy-types such as Diancie, Granbull, and Togetic are helpful partners. Pursuit users work with Hoopa because they can get rid of its primary check, Meloetta. Hoopa works well with hazard-stacking Pokemon, as they appreciate a spinblocker. Choice Scarf Hoopa cannot wallbreak as easily as the all-out attacker variant and appreciates support from wallbreakers such as Venusaur and Exploud, which allow it to clean up late-game. Pokemon that can take on physical attackers that threaten Hoopa are also helpful. Hoopa also appreciates VoltTurn Pokemon because it wants to be able to switch in freely. Run Pokemon that can check Aerodactyl, such as Bronzong and Seismitoad, as it is faster than Choice Scarf Hoopa and can Pursuit trap it. A Nasty Plot set can be viable, but Hoopa rarely sees an opportunity to set up due to its typing and low Defense. An offensive Trick Room set with Focus Blast, Hyperspace Hole, and Shadow Ball is an option; however, Hoopa has an awkward Speed tier and therefore has a hard time being effective with Trick Room. Choice Specs can be used for greater damage, although Hoopa generally likes using its coverage freely and therefore prefers an all-out attacker set. Fire Punch can be used over Knock Off, but it only has one target in Escavalier. The last slot can be filled with a multitude of moves over Knock Off, such as Taunt, Destiny Bond, Toxic, Thunder Wave, and Energy Ball, depending on your team's weaknesses. Finally, a Calm Mind set can be used; however, it is outclassed by Calm Mind Meloetta, and a Nasty Plot set is generally more effective.
Hoopa (SM competitive strategy): Hoopa appears to be a threatening offensive Pokemon, since it sports a good STAB combination and the highest Special Attack stat in RU. Unfortunately, its Speed and Defense are incredibly lacking, which allows it to be revenge killed and Pursuit trapped easily by Pokemon such as Golisopod, Zygarde-10%, and Drapion. Hoopa's defensive typing also leaves it extremely vulnerable to Pokemon with Dark-type coverage moves like Donphan and Mega Blastoise, which makes it a terrible spinblocker. Mismagius often gives Hoopa immense competition thanks to its much better Speed tier and ability to threaten other playstyles besides balance and stall. Hoopa can attempt to take advantage of more passive Pokemon such as Registeel and Bronzong by setting up a Substitute and boosting with Nasty Plot. Once Substitute is broken, however, it becomes incredibly easy to revenge kill due to its horrible defensive typing and pitiful Defense. Mismagius is a much better pick for most teams due to its superior Speed and defensive utility.
Hoopa (SV competitive strategy): Choice Scarf Hoopa is an effective wallbreaker and cleaner thanks to its astronomically high Special Attack stat combined with its great STAB moves and solid movepool that lets it threaten common defensive Pokemon such as Galarian Slowbro, Bellibolt, and Venusaur. Psyshock is the generally superior Psychic-type move, letting it more easily break through common specially defensive Pokemon like Florges, Dudunsparce, and Goodra. Alternatively, Psychic has more power, hitting the likes of Bellibolt and Mudsdale stronger than Psyshock. Focus Blast synergizes well with Hoopa's STAB moves, hitting Dark-types such as Scrafty, Bombirdier, and Wo-Chien that would otherwise hinder Hoopa's offensive progress. Trick is a useful utility move, hampering Pokemon such as Milotic and Altaria that Hoopa would otherwise do lackluster damage to. Tera Fighting further powers up Focus Blast, letting it do things such as 2HKO Bellibolt and Grimmsnarl and potentially OHKO non-Assault Vest Duraludon and Wo-Chien. It also presents amazing defensive benefits, giving Hoopa a resistance to Sucker Punch from Skuntank and Zoroark and a neutrality to Houndstone's Shadow Sneak. Alternatively, Tera Ghost further powers up Shadow Ball, letting Hoopa 2HKO Altaria and OHKO Salazzle while improving Hoopa's ability to clean late-game. Choice Scarf Hoopa fits best on offensive teams as both a form of speed control and a fast wallbreaker and capable of overwhelming both offensive and defensive foes alike. Hoopa's STAB moves are resisted by Dark-types, which leaves it vulnerable to being taken advantage of by Pokemon like Scrafty, Skuntank, and Zoroark, relying on the inaccurate Focus Blast to hit them. As a result, Pokemon that can beat Dark-types such as Florges, Paldean Tauros-F, and Pawmot make for excellent partners, beating these threats while appreciating Hoopa's ability to break through the likes of Galarian Slowbro, Palossand, and Houndstone. Additionally, these Pokemon appreciate Hoopa's speed control, opening them up to performing other roles. They can also absorb Knock Off, which lets Hoopa both maintain its speed control and its longevity. Entry hazard setters such as Mudsdale, Bombirdier, and Alolan Sandslash heavily appreciate Hoopa's capability as a spinblocker while helping chip down foes such as Bellibolt, Rotom-H, and Arcanine for Hoopa to KO. Other wallbreakers such as Sneasel and Zoroark can help wear down Dark-types such as Skuntank, Hisuian Qwilfish, and Grimmsnarl while appreciating Hoopa's high Speed with Choice Scarf. Hoopa is one of the most powerful special wallbreakers thanks to its spammable Ghost- and Psychic-type STAB moves. Its good special bulk gives it opportunities to switch in and threaten foes like Florges, Galarian Slowbro, Galarian Articuno, and Tatsugiri. Psyshock's advantage over Psychic is targeting specially bulky Pokemon like Florges and Goodra, and it also circumvents the Special Defense boosts of setup sweepers like Quiver Dance Frosmoth and Calm Mind Dudunsparce. Focus Blast nails Dark-types like Scrafty and Wo-Chien, and Hoopa can use it to blast past bulky Fighting-weak Pokemon like Rhydon, Naclstack, and specially defensive Dudunsparce. Trick punishes passive walls Hoopa might otherwise struggle to break through, such as Hisuian Qwilfish, and it also disrupts slower setup sweepers like Bulk Up Scrafty. Tera Fighting remedies Hoopa's major vulnerability to Dark-type moves, notably Sucker Punch and Knock Off, while powering up its Focus Blast to the point it can OHKO Wo-Chien. VoltTurn teams appreciate Hoopa as a strong wallbreaker they can bring in using pivots like Rotom-H, Hisuian Electrode, and Alolan Persian, and it's especially noteworthy for busting through problematic tanks and walls like Rhydon, Golurk, and Mudsdale. Slow and bulky pivots like Bellibolt are especially helpful at managing Hoopa's poor physical bulk by bringing it in safely against physical attackers like Arcanine, Hisuian Decidueye, and Hariyama. Hoopa's solid special bulk makes it a useful answer to special attackers like Florges, Rotom-H, and Galarian Articuno, which is much appreciated by specially frail Pokemon like Tatsugiri, Golurk, and Mudsdale. Psychic-weak Pokemon, such as Paldean Tauros-F, similarly benefit from Hoopa checking many foes like Galarian Articuno and Uxie. Hoopa's 4x Dark and Ghost weaknesses make it reliant on teammates like Florges, Skuntank, and Dudunsparce. Physically offensive revenge killers like Bruxish and Pawmot are a major pain for Hoopa, which can be mitigated by having switch-ins like Bellibolt, Houndstone, and Palossand at the ready. Hoopa is quite slow for a wallbreaker, so it benefits from paralysis users like Dudunsparce and Grimmsnarl; notably, Grimmsnarl can ease Hoopa's ability to hit the field safely with Parting Shot.
Clawitzer (XY competitive strategy): Clawitzer is one of the best wallbreakers in RU thanks in part to its high base 120 Special Attack. While it does face some competition as a special Water-type wallbreaker from the faster Samurott, Clawitzer makes up for this with Mega Launcher and a wide range of coverage moves such as Aura Sphere and Dark Pulse. It also has decent bulk for a wallbreaker, allowing it to take some hits if need be and retaliate with a strong attack. On the downside, Clawitzer is slow, making it an easier target for faster bulky Pokemon such as Rotom-C. Additionally, its lack of recovery and susceptibility to all forms of entry hazards and Life Orb recoil make Clawitzer easy to be revenge killed in a weakened state. Scald hits for ample damage and can cripple physical attackers such as Escavalier with a burn. Ice Beam provides coverage against Grass- and Dragon-types such as Venusaur and Druddigon while also hitting Flying-types such as Togetic; additionally, Virizion can be hit as it switches in. Dark Pulse gets a boost from Mega Launcher and allows Clawitzer to hit Psychic- and Ghost-types such as Meloetta and Jellicent for super effective damage. Aura Sphere also gets a boost from Mega Launcher and 2HKOes Dark-, Ice-, Normal-, and Steel-types such as Scrafty, Eviolite Sneasel, Audino, and Registeel and ensures an OHKO on Mega Glalie after Stealth Rock damage. 252 EVs in Special Attack along with a Modest nature maximize Clawitzer's wallbreaking capabilities. 252 EVs in Speed allow Clawitzer to outspeed Pokemon such as uninvested Golbat, uninvested Meloetta, and Adamant maximum Speed Scrafty. While it might seem enticing to use a Timid nature to outspeed the likes of Adamant Emboar and Modest Exploud, it isn't worth the loss of power. Life Orb boosts the power of Clawitzer's attacks at the cost of some health. Mega Launcher is Clawitzer's only ability, providing a boost to all of its pulse moves. Clawitzer is a wallbreaker first and foremost, so it should be used early- and mid-game to dent the opponent's team to make it easier for its teammates to come in and clean up. Scald is the primary attack to use to attempt to get a burn and deal out damage, while Ice Beam should be used on a predicted switch to a Pokemon that resists Water such as Virizion or Druddigon, and Dark Pulse is used to nail Jellicent, which is immune to Scald and Aura Sphere and resists Ice Beam. Despite having respectable bulk, Clawitzer should avoid switching in on strong attacks if you plan to use it at a later point. It is best to send Clawitzer in after a teammate has fainted or from a slow Volt Switch or U-turn from Pokemon such as Eelektross. Clawitzer appreciates entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Uxie, Druddigon, and Bronzong, as this wears down foes switching in. Examples include being able to guarantee 2HKOs on Golbat and specially defensive Meloetta with Ice Beam and Dark Pulse, respectively, after Stealth Rock damage. Uxie and Druddigon can also provide paralysis support to make up for Clawitzer's low Speed, and Druddigon can switch in on Grass- and Electric-type attacks aimed at Clawitzer. Sticky Web support from either Kricketune or Leavanny also helps in making up for Clawitzer's low Speed. Setup sweepers that appreciate Clawitzer's wallbreaking capabilities, such as Houndoom and Fletchinder, make for good partners. Electric-types such as Jolteon and Rotom-C can switch in on Electric-type attacks aimed at Clawitzer while it handles Ground-types for them. Eelektross also makes for a good partner, providing a slow pivot for Clawitzer and taking Electric- and Grass-type attacks aimed at it. Though it isn't mandatory, Clawitzer can also function well under Trick Room with support from Pokemon such as Aromatisse and Bronzong. If you plan to use Clawitzer under Trick Room, then use an EV spread of 248 HP / 252 SpA / 8 SpD with a Quiet nature and 0 Speed IVs. Hidden Power Grass is an option for Clawitzer to hit Seismitoad and Gastrodon harder than any of its other moves, but neither Pokemon usually runs investment in Special Defense, so Life Orb-boosted Dark Pulse or Aura Sphere 2HKOes both after Stealth Rock damage regardless. Choice Specs or Choice Scarf can turn Clawitzer into a powerful wallbreaker or an unexpected revenge killer, but Clawitzer can be easily taken advantage of once locked into a move. U-turn could be utilized in conjunction with Choice Specs or Choice Scarf, but it would force Clawitzer to give up a coverage move. Water Pulse gets a boost from Mega Launcher and is stronger than Scald, but the chance to cripple physical attackers with a burn from Scald outweighs the added power and possible confusion chance that Water Pulse provides. Dragon Pulse also gets a boost from Mega Launcher and can hit Dragon-types such as Druddigon harder than Ice Beam, but it provides little coverage otherwise. Assault Vest, a seemingly good option, takes away from Clawitzer's ability to wallbreak, as Clawitzer would miss out on the extra power that Life Orb provides.
Clawitzer (SM competitive strategy): Possessing a high Special Attack stat in combination with a great ability in Mega Launcher, Clawitzer is able to hit extremely hard. Its access to coverage moves in Dark Pulse and Aura Sphere solidifies Clawitzer's role as a wallbreaker, letting it hit a huge portion of the metagame for great damage. Clawitzer also has access to a slow U-turn and forces a lot of switches, allowing it to safely bring in teammates. However, Clawitzer is held back by the abundance of excellent Grass-types in the tier such as Whimsicott, Decidueye, and Sceptile. Moreover, its low Speed stat leaves it vulnerable to most faster powerful attackers in the tier, especially because its bulk is rather average. Clawitzer also faces competition from other Water-types in Samurott and Blastoise, which both sport a better Speed tier, outspeeding Pokemon like Omastar. Samurott also can bluff physical sets and pull off a mixed set, while Blastoise provides immense team support thanks to Rapid Spin and Refresh. Water Pulse is Clawitzer's main STAB move, as it hits very hard with Mega Launcher. It also comes with a decent confusion chance. Scald is an alternative if Water Pulse's extra power is not desired, and it can be used to spread burns to weaken Clawitzer's checks instead. It also is still powerful enough to OHKO Piloswine. Dark Pulse rounds Clawitzer's coverage well, nailing the bulky Water-types that otherwise wall it, namely Vaporeon and Slowking. Ice Beam is its main way of dealing with Grass- and Dragon-types, hitting the likes of Alolan Exeggutor and Druddigon for super effective damage. Aura Sphere lets Clawitzer OHKO Scrafty and hits Cryogonal and Audino for good damage. U-turn can be used to take advantage of Clawitzer's ability to force many switches, allowing it to get it teammates onto the field safely and pivoting out of its checks. Maximum Special Attack and Speed with a Modest nature and Choice Specs let Clawitzer hit hard and outpace much threats as possible. Mega Launcher boosts the damage of Water Pulse, Dark Pulse, and Aura Sphere. Use Clawitzer to tear apart opposing cores early-game, leaving them weakened for the rest of the team to clean up. Since this set is holding a Choice item, it is very prediction-reliant. Water Pulse should almost always be used to wear the opposing team down provided that opponent doesn't have a Pokemon immune to it, but you should also try to predict what Pokemon the opponent will send out and use the appropriate coverage move. Predicting wrong comes with very big risks, however, as it could cost the team's momentum or end up giving Pokemon like Comfey setup opportunities when Clawitzer is locked into a move like Dark Pulse. When using U-turn, first consider if safely bringing a teammate on the field would bring more momentum than Clawitzer firing off attacks on its own. Volt Switch, U-turn, and Parting Shot support from the likes of Whimsicott, Passimian, and Silvally-Steel is excellent for safely bringing Clawitzer into the field, and Clawitzer can even complete a VoltTurn core with them if it opts to run U-turn. Switch-ins to Electric- and Grass-types are needed, and Grass- and Electric-types of your own work well, such as Dhelmise and Vikavolt, as they also eliminate bulky Water-types for Clawitzer. Entry hazard support helps Clawitzer in its job, as it nets a 2HKO on Vaporeon after Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes. Rhydon and Piloswine fit well as Stealth Rock setters, and Garbodor is a good Spikes setter, as it also checks Grass-types for Clawitzer. Faster revenge killers and naturally fast Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Passimian and Delphox help cover Clawitzer's low Speed stat, and they appreciate Clawitzer's ability to break past their checks. Substitute helps Clawitzer stall opposing Pokemon with Toxic and avoid getting revenge killed and statused by common Pokemon such as Passimian and Vaporeon. Toxic helps chip down opposing Pokemon such as Mega Audino, Seismitoad, and Vaporeon and pairs well with Substitute. Water Pulse is Clawitzer's STAB move and allows it to quickly break down opposing Pokemon while stalling them down via Toxic. Lastly, Dark Pulse does solid damage to Slowking and Vaporeon. Ice Beam is an alternative to Dark Pulse to hit Pokemon such as Torterra, Druddigon, and Whimsicott super effectively at the cost of missing out on beneficial damage on the aforementioned targets. Maximum Special Attack investment increases Clawitzer's damage output. 156 Speed EVs let Clawitzer outspeed various threatening Toxic users such as Vaporeon and Blastoise, giving it a chance to use Substitute effectively. The remaining EVs are put into HP to improve Clawitzer's bulk. Mega Launcher boosts Water Pulse's and Dark Pulse's damage. Use Substitute versus passive Pokemon like Vaporeon and Blastoise, as they are the easiest to get a Substitute off on. Additionally, try to keep entry hazards off the field because chipping Clawitzer can prevent it from using Substitute at some point. Additionally, Clawitzer lacks reliable recovery outside of Leftovers, so try not to let it get hit by Knock Off. Be wary of clicking Toxic versus teams with Xatu and Steel-types like Silvally-Steel, as Xatu can easily bounce back Toxic using Magic Bounce, while Steel-types are immune to Toxic. However, you can ease up on this if Clawitzer is behind a Substitute. Keep in mind that you should be clicking Toxic versus bulkier Pokemon that Clawitzer doesn't do as much damage to, such as Cryogonal and Audino. Lastly, try to make use of pivoting moves such as Parting Shot, U-turn, and Volt Switch to help get in Clawitzer safely. Checks to Electric-types such as Decidueye and to Ground-types such as Sceptile are pivotal for Clawitzer, as Electric-types heavily threaten Clawitzer if it is not behind a Substitute. Heliolisk especially is problematic, as it can damage Clawitzer with Hyper Voice even if it is behind a Substitute. Grass-type checks such as Incineroar, Mega Glalie, and Braviary benefit Clawitzer, as it cannot easily deal with the likes of Decidueye and Golbat without Ice Beam or Substitute. Entry hazard control from Pokemon such as Xatu and Cryogonal is also helpful for Clawitzer, as repeated chip damage will easily prevent Clawitzer from doing its job. Pokemon such as Incineroar and non-Grassium Z Delphox that aren't the biggest fans of bulky Water-types appreciate Clawitzer's support, as it deals with such Pokemon easily. Spikes setters like Ferroseed and Garbodor are also great partners for Clawitzer, as Spikes ease the process of Toxic stalling for Clawitzer quite a bit. Finally, pivot support from Pokemon such as Heliolisk, Iapapa Berry Incineroar, Passimian, and Silvally-Steel is useful for Clawitzer, as they are able to bring it in safely.
Houndstone (SV competitive strategy): Houndstone establishes itself in NU as an incredibly reliable spinblocker and defensive presence, being able to prevent Rapid Spin from the likes of Tsareena while taking on dangerous attackers such as Flamigo and Barraskewda effortlessly. Houndstone is able to utilize its switch-in opportunities to generate progress via Night Shade, Roar, or Will-O-Wisp. Houndstone primarily struggles with its unreliable recovery options, as it has to either use the passive Rest or the inconsistent Pain Split. Houndstone also struggles immensely with special attackers like Munkidori and Diancie, as they can take advantage of its weaker Special Defense for massive damage. Unless it is running Body Press, Houndstone is vunerable to Dark-types such as Incineroar and Scrafty, which can use Knock Off to remove its item and potentially use it as setup fodder if it is not running Roar. Roar allows Houndstone to phaze setup sweepers such as Flygon and Scyther while also causing entry hazard damage against a new foe. Will-O-Wisp can be used to cripple physical attackers that otherwise might beat Houndstone such as Drednaw and Rhyperior. Houndstone can use the combination of RestTalk, allowing it to consistently handle foes such as Flygon, Rhyperior, and Barraskewda. Pain Split can be used to free up a moveslot on Houndstone while also working exceptionally well on high-HP targets such as Vaporeon and Copperajah. Body Press allows Houndstone to hit common Dark-types such as Incineroar and Scrafty for big damage. Rocky Helmet deals chip damage against Pokemon such as Flygon and Flamigo, Heavy-Duty Boots allows Houndstone to ignore entry hazards to take on Pokemon such as Scyther more easily, and Leftovers can help keep Houndstone healthy over the course of the game. Tera Water lets Houndstone resist Water-type attacks from Pokemon such as Basculegion-M and Barraskewda while also resisting Fire-type attacks from Incineroar and Infernape. Tera Fighting boosts the power of Body Press while also giving Houndstone a Dark resistance that helps it against Overqwil and Scrafty. Tera Fairy makes Houndstone immune to Dragon-type attacks from the likes of Flygon, allows it to resist Dark-type moves, and still lets it easily take on Fighting-types such as Paldean Tauros-W, Flamigo, and Hariyama. Houndstone primarily fits on bulky offense and balance teams, particularly Spike stack teams, as they heavily appreciate its ability to check Pokemon such as Flamigo and Breloom while also stopping Rapid Spin from Tsareena. Entry hazard setters such as Klefki, Rhyperior, and Gligar pair well with Houndstone because they appreciate its reliability in keeping up hazards against teams that rely on Rapid Spin. In return, Houndstone appreciates the passive chip damage against checks such as Flamigo and Flygon. Hazard removal options such as Tsareena and Cramorant are heavily appreciated by Houndstone, as they can allow Rocky Helmet or Leftovers variants to stay healthy over the course of a game. Special walls such as Copperajah and Diancie pair extremely well with Houndstone, as they love its ability to check common physical attackers such as Flamigo and Paldean Tauros-W. They can then handle special attackers that Houndstone might struggle with such as Munkidori and Chandelure. Due to Fluffy doubling the power of Fire-type attacks, Houndstone can immensely struggle against Pokemon such as Chandelure and Incineroar. Therefore, Fire-resistant Pokemon such as Diancie, Altaria, and Incineroar are especially appreciated. Wish passers such as Vaporeon and Sylveon are great for Houndstone. Wish can help keep Houndstone healthy without having to use the unreliable Rest or Pain Split, and Houndstone can check powerful wallbreakers the wish passers might otherwise struggle with such as Choice Band Flamigo and Breloom. Fighting-types such as Paldean Tauros-F, Scrafty, and Toxicroak can help take on Dark-types that Houndstone commonly struggles with like Overqwil and Wo-Chien, and in return, Houndstone can help with Pokemon they can struggle against such as Flamigo. An EV spread of 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe alongside Poltergeist and Shadow Sneak can be used to turn Houndstone into a powerful wallbreaker that can still soft check offensive threats such as Flamigo. Protect can be used to allow Houndstone to gain even more Leftovers healing, though this may not fit into its moveset. Assault Vest can be used to turn Houndstone into a decent special tank, though it thrives off its utility movepool, and this set has no recovery options. Air Balloon alongside Thief can be used on Houndstone to allow it to steal an opponents item. However, Thief must be used with caution so that Houndstone doesn't accidentally cripple itself with a Choice-item or Life Orb, and often, it prefers running other moves like Body Press, Roar, and Pain Split. Tera Poison can be used to prevent Houndstone from being poisoned from the likes of Overqwil and Amoonguss while giving it a Fairy resistance to check Sylveon.
Tsareena (SM competitive strategy): Tsareena is a viable spinner in the RU metagame, boasting a strong STAB move in Power Whip as well as Knock Off, which helps punish Ghost-types, which can attempt to block Rapid Spin, while High Jump Kick rounds up its coverage to hit Pokemon such as Porygon2 and Umbreon super effectively. In addition, Queenly Majesty makes Tsareena immune to priority moves, letting it serve as an offensive check to Mega Abomasnow and Honchkrow if it uses High Jump Kick. Tsareena's Speed puts it above base 70s such as Honchkrow and Metagross, but it's still slower than Mega Blastoise, Necrozma, and Nidoqueen, all of which can severely hurt Tsareena or KO it. Lastly, it competes with Virizion, Roserade, and Shaymin as an offensive Grass-type wallbreaker but has the niche of being a Rapid Spin user. Rapid Spin is the main reason to use Tsareena, so it's a staple on this set. STAB Power Whip packs a stupendously strong punch that hurts everything that doesn't resist it. Knock Off is a good coverage move for a spinner to have, letting it hit Mismagius and Alolan Marowak while crippling Pokemon that rely on their items such as Registeel and Porygon2. Synthesis provides Tsareena with longevity, allowing it to check Milotic throughout the match and stay healthy to spin multiple times. However, High Jump Kick or Low Kick can be used in the last slot to give Tsareena more coverage and hit Porygon2, Mega Abomasnow and Registeel super effectively. The EV spread is simple with maximum Attack and Speed investment. Meadow Plate boosts Power Whip's power without drawbacks, while Life Orb boosts the power of all of Tsareena's moves and allows it to function as more of a wallbreaker, especially with an Adamant nature. Lum Berry is another item option that cures Tsareena of a Scald burn or Toxic. A Jolly nature can be used at the expense of some firepower to outspeed Jolly Metagross, Honchkrow, and Tyrantrum, but the drop in power is noticeable. Queenly Majesty is the only viable ability Tsareena has, as it blocks priority from the likes of Mega Abomasnow, Zygarde-10%, Donphan, and Honchkrow. Tsareena should primarily be used to spin away hazards for teammates such as Noivern, Golisopod, and Salazzle. In addition to this, it can also work as a wallbreaker with its powerful STAB and coverage moves. It's generally always preferred to use Knock Off first if the opponent has a Ghost-type, and KO them first before spinning. When using High Jump Kick, be careful of Protect users, most notably Registeel and Umbreon. Pokemon that are weak to Stealth Rock love having Tsareena as a partner. This includes Yanmega, Salazzle, Golisopod, Noivern, and Araquanid. Milotic and Slowking both have good synergy with Tsareena, sponging Fire- and Ice-type attacks from the likes of Salazzle and Mega Glalie. Spikes users such as Cloyster and Golisopod benefit from having a Rapid Spin user instead of a Defogger. For that same reason, Tsareena can fit on Sticky Web teams, with setters of the move being Ribombee and Araquanid. Choice Scarf users such as Flygon and Gardevoir can pair decently with Tsareena to provide speed control. Choice Band is an option to turn Tsareena into a powerful and unexpected wallbreaker, however, this set heavily competes with Virizion. It does, however, have the advantage of being far more initially threatening. Even though Tsareena is pressed for moves, U-turn can be a good option if you wish to preserve momentum, as Tsareena can force some switches such as against Milotic with its strong STAB move and Grass typing. Aromatherapy is also another option, letting Tsareena cure teammates' status ailments and acting as an offensive cleric. Finally, a defensive set is viable on Tsareena with Trop Kick, Knock Off, Synthesis, and Rapid Spin, holding Leftovers, and utilizing a bulkier EV spread. Play Rough alongside Fairium Z can be used to nuke Mandibuzz and other Pokemon that can usually take a hit such as Virizion, Noivern, and Bewear.
Tsareena (SS competitive strategy): Tsareena's an incredible spinner and matches up well against common Stealth Rock setters like Mudsdale and Diancie. In addition, it's very effective at forcing in Talonflame and removing its Heavy-Duty Boots and a great pivot that synergizes with some of NU's best wallbreakers because of the Pokemon it draws in. Despite offering so much role compression, though, Tsareena faces heavy competition from Rotom-C, a Pokemon that fills many of the same roles as it but with more efficiency and defensive utility. Many teams opt for Choice Scarf Rotom-C as their entry hazard remover because it can double as a revenge killer too, and Tsareena lacking that function makes building with it awkward at times. Also, Tsareena can't make very good use of its resistances because Pokemon it'd otherwise switch into well, like Silvally-Ground and Starmie, simply outspeed and heavily damage or KO it the following turn with their coverage. Knock Off prevents Rocky Helmet users like Xatu, Weezing, and Vileplume from constantly punishing Tsareena for pivoting, denies foes like Escavalier their Leftovers recovery, and greatly cripples Talonflame. It also prevents Dhelmise and Decidueye from safely spinblocking Tsareena. U-turn keeps momentum up against common defensive answers like Vileplume and Escavalier, applying constant pressure with offensive teammates like Galarian Articuno and Salazzle that beat them. Alternatively, Triple Axel makes Tsareena a good lure for Dragon- and Grass-types like Guzzlord and Vileplume, although it mandates Protective Pads as Tsareena's item for foes like Flame Body Talonflame and Rocky Helmet users. Synthesis is another option that helps keep Tsareena healthy, staving off damage from pivots like Rotom-C and Silvally-Ground and making it easier to run other items. In particular, Yache Berry makes Tsareena an effective emergency check to Inteleon and other offensive Water-types, whereas forgoing an item gives Tsareena an immunity to Golurk's and Decidueye's Poltergeists. Golurk and Silvally-Ground are great teammates, capitalizing on Tsareena drawing in Poison-types and pivoting them in with U-turn. Other pivots like Talonflame, Silvally-Ground, and Togedemaru are good partners too, creating VoltTurn loops that can do a great job of swinging momentum in your favor. Talonflame also benefits from Tsareena's Rapid Spin support making Knock Off less detrimental to its longevity. Tsareena's a bad defensive answer to Water-types like Starmie, Inteleon, and Araquanid because of its middling bulk and vulnerability to their coverage, so make sure to pair it with Pokemon like Vaporeon, Sylveon, and Mantine; the former two also provide it much-wanted cleric support. Aromatherapy can be used if your team is particularly weak to status ailments, but Tsareena loses to common status inflictors like Talonflame and Vileplume, which makes it an inconsistent cleric. High Jump Kick fits well on sets more dedicated to maximizing Tsareena's coverage while hitting Stakataka and Copperajah extremely hard; a set of Power Whip / Triple Axel / High Jump Kick / Rapid Spin with Wide Lens is a good example of this, but losing Knock Off's utility is very punishing against foes like Weezing and Talonflame.
Tsareena (SV competitive strategy): Tsareena is NU's best entry hazard remover, and for good reason: it easily beats the plethora of Grass-weak hazard setters like Rhyperior, Swampert, and Diancie, and even Steel-types such as Klefki and Registeel are inconsistent at beating it one-on-one. While offensive Tsareena profiles as a solid wallbreaker that can take over games thanks to Rapid Spin's Speed boost, defensive sets are fantastic at checking the swathes of offensive Ground-types in NU, especially Krookodile and Flygon, and its access to Synthesis is a huge factor in it outclassing Brambleghast, its primary competition. Tsareena faces some very real struggles defensively, though, as almost every Ground-type it aims to check carries super effective coverage, like Gunk Shot from Krookodile and Megahorn from Rhyperior, that threatens to KO it with minimal chip damage required. Offensive sets aren't very fast without a Speed boost and easily pressured by other wallbreakers like Chandelure and Munkidori as well as fast utility options in Noivern and Talonflame. Meanwhile, defensive sets are quite easy to exploit due to their reliance on Knock Off with Pokemon like RestTalk Alolan Muk, Vileplume, and Dragalge. Tsareena doubles as a source of entry hazard removal and a potent wallbreaker. Knock Off punishes switch-ins such as Talonflame and Magnezone while obliterating Chandelure, and Triple Axel deletes opposing Grass-types like Vileplume, Venusaur, and Rotom-C as well as Noivern. If you wish to tap further into Tsareena's utility movepool, U-turn is optional over Triple Axel, still giving it an out against any of its checks while enabling its stronger teammates. High Jump Kick is another coverage move you can try, as it's Tsareena's best option for hitting Steel-type hazard setters like Copperajah and Registeel and does good damage to Incineroar. Heavy-Duty Boots lets Tsareena bypass hazard damage, which increases its proficiency as a spinner, but Lum Berry helps against Talonflame's Flame Body and Slowbro's Scald. Tsareena usually shouldn't be Terastallizing, but Tera Dragon potentially lets it KO a Chandelure or Hisuian Typhlosion with Knock Off and gives Tsareena a good sun matchup, while Tera Steel blanks Munkidori's STAB moves, potentially lets Tsareena beat Cloyster, and helps it against Alolan Muk. Tsareena is great at luring in and beating certain Poison-types like Dragalge, Vileplume, and Venusaur with Triple Axel; make sure to pair it with teammates like Mienshao, Thundurus, and Sylveon that can take advantage of this. Furthermore, Mienshao especially, as well as other physical attackers like Gallade and Infernape, appreciate Tsareena removing Talonflame's Heavy-Duty Boots and making it easier to overwhelm with Stealth Rock up. Similarly, teammates like Choice Specs Noivern, Chandelure, and Hisuian Typhlosion all appreciate Tsareena's Rapid Spin, and the latter two can beat Steel-type checks like Klefki, Registeel, and Magnezone for Tsareena. Talonflame is perhaps the most common switch-in to Tsareena, so Pokemon like Diancie and Slowbro that easily switch into it are helpful to have. Bulky Tsareena is one of the tier's few good answers to the plethora of offensive Ground-types in NU, such as Flygon, Krookodile, and Rhyperior. Although they possess super effective coverage moves for it, they can't OHKO it, and Synthesis keeps Tsareena healthy throughout the game so it can stay out of KO range from these threats. The biggest boon to this set, though, is destroying Klefki; it can't do enough damage with Foul Play thanks to the bulk investment, and Power Whip or Trop Kick will slowly beat it down. Trop Kick can be used over Power Whip for its accuracy, but you lose out on useful damage rolls like 2HKOing Diancie, 2HKOing Assault Vest Reuniclus after Stealth Rock, and OHKOing Krookodile. Tsareena will rarely want to Terastallize, but Tera Poison is nice to consistently answer Fighting-types like Mienshao and non-Meteor Mash Lucario and makes Tsareena immune to poison from Alolan Muk at the cost of becoming weak to Earthquake; Tera Dragon aids against Fire-types like Hisuian Typhlosion and retains several resistances to types like Water, Grass, and Electric; and Tera Steel is useful for checking Fairy- and Poison-types such as Sylveon and Munkidori as well as Cloyster. Tsareena creates great defensive cores with common entry hazard setters like Diancie and Rhyperior. They resist Fire and Flying for Tsareena, while it takes on Water- and Ground-type attacks in return. Its Knock Off support is also favored by many offensive Pokemon, specifically Fighting-types like Mienshao, Gallade, and Infernape, since Tsareena so frequently draws in Talonflame and removes its Heavy-Duty Boots. Stealth Rock-weak Pokemon like Choice Specs Chandelure, Choice Specs Noivern, and itemless Thundurus also desire Tsareena for its Rapid Spin. Tsareena has other usable Tera types than the ones listed, but they lack consistency across teams. Tera Dark is good for teams that lack a Ghost resistance and amps up Knock Off's damage, but it offers little else. Tera Ghost is a harder answer to Fighting-types than Tera Poison, but it's just as bad into Krookodile and gives Tsareena a horrible Alolan Muk matchup. Tera Fire is similar to Tera Dragon in helping Tsareena against Fire-types, although Tsareena gains a Water weakness. Choice Scarf sets are good at revenge killing priority-reliant setup sweepers like Lycanroc-D and Lucario and don't have to worry about Klefki's Thunder Wave.
Comfey (SM competitive strategy): Comfey's great offensive typing in Fairy combined with Triage priority moves such as Draining Kiss and Giga Drain helps it revenge kill many offensive threats like Passimian, Sneasel, and Medicham. The combination of Calm Mind and good priority options also makes Comfey a threatening late-game sweeper. However, due to its lackluster physical bulk, Comfey often struggles to switch into even neutral physical moves. Its relatively weak moves also mean that Comfey has to rely on its ability to set up to break down opposing teams and that it generally struggles to break through the tier's common walls such as Incineroar and Steelix. It also has a hard time breaking the tier's Poison-types like Garbodor, Weezing, and Golbat. Draining Kiss gives Comfey a priority STAB move that lets it hit Fighting-types such as Passimian and Medicham for super effective damage. Giga Drain gives it an option to hit bulky Water-types like Slowking and Vaporeon and Stealth Rock setters like Rhydon and Piloswine. Calm Mind helps it boost its power and bulk to clean up more easily late-game or potentially break more efficiently mid-game. Hidden Power Ground hits Poison- and Fire-types like Garbodor, Incineroar, Magmortar, and Delphox super effectively while still hitting all relevant Steel-types other than Ferroseed for super effective damage. Hidden Power Fire gives Comfey a way to damage Steel-types like Steelix, Ferroseed, and Silvally-Steel for super effective damage while giving Comfey a way to damage bulky Poison-types such as Garbodor and Weezing as well as Dhelmise. Hidden Power Psychic lets Comfey pose a greater threat to Poison-types. 20 Speed EVs allow Comfey to outspeed maximum Speed Jolly Incineroar, while maximum Special Attack investment and a Modest nature make it as powerful as possible. The leftover EVs are pumped into HP to help Comfey set up more easily and potentially use its good defensive typing in a pinch. Life Orb boosts Comfey's generally lackluster damage output to help its offensive prowess. Triage helps it revenge kill faster attackers with Draining Kiss or Giga Drain. Use Comfey as a revenge killer for certain setup sweepers like Scrafty and Samurott and Choice Scarf users like Passimian. Weaken its answers early-game by using Hidden Power on turns where you predict a Steel-type to come in. Try to have a teammate badly poison Pokemon that can potentially trouble Comfey with Toxic. Comfey can occasionally come in on Choice-locked Pokemon like Sneasel and Passimian. However, Comfey should not be switched into attacks recklessly, as that can hinder it from setting up later in the game. Set up Calm Mind late-game to break through Comfey's weakened checks and counters; without doing so, removing walls like Cryogonal and Torterra becomes impossible. A Spikes setter such as Ferroseed or Garbodor helps weaken the opposing team further for Comfey to have an easier time cleaning. Both also help defensively against Poison-types, while Ferroseed acts as a switch-in to Steel-types. Choice Scarf Passimian serves as a reliable check to Swords Dance Incineroar, which otherwise comfortably takes advantage of Comfey. It can also potentially gain momentum to get Comfey in safely on different Fighting-type switch-ins. Pokemon that pressure Steel-types, such as Sigilyph, Mega Glalie, and Sceptile, help weaken Comfey's answers for an easier late-game sweep. Comfey appreciates answers to common Poison-types like Garbodor and Weezing if lacking a super effective Hidden Power; Steelix deals with Garbodor well, while Palossand can deal with both. Pursuit trappers such as Aerodactyl and Sneasel are also great partners for Comfey, as they are able to remove Delphox, one of Comfey's best checks. Taunt can be run on the Calm Mind set to break down walls with Toxic or recovery like Golbat and Mega Audino. Choice Specs sets can be run for more immediate power with U-turn or Trick in the fourth moveslot. U-turn, especially when paired with Probopass, can help remove annoying Steel-types much more easily for Comfey to run wild.
Comfey (SS competitive strategy): Calm Mind and Triage-boosted Draining Kiss make Comfey a dangerous Terrain sweeper that can revenge kill weakened threats like Sandslash and Archeops while simultaneously remaining healthy. Between its typing and decent bulk, Comfey can be hard to take down and can reliably check Dark- and Fighting-types such as Sneasel and Gallade that pose a threat to Terrain teams. These same defensive traits also allow Comfey to serve as a decent bulky Defogger, trading much of its offensive presence for more self-sufficiency and utility. However, when not boosted or hitting foes super effectively, Comfey tends to be very passive due to its mediocre Special Attack. Comfey also lacks coverage for Steel-types like Doublade and Ferroseed, allowing them to easily cut its sweep short or keep entry hazards up against it. Gigalith being so common hurts defensive Comfey, since Synthesis restores less HP in sand on top of already having low PP. Other Fairy-types like Ribombee and Whimsicott generally outclass Comfey, offering much of the same utility as it while being faster, more versatile, and less exploitable. Stored Power nails Poison-types like Weezing, prevents Charizard and non-Haze Quagsire from walling Comfey, and hits special walls like Audino harder than Draining Kiss with enough boosts. Aromatherapy keeps Comfey and its teammates from being ruined by status, while Taunt completely shuts down slow walls like Wishiwashi and Eldegoss. Giga Drain is a niche option over Stored Power that hits harder under Grassy Terrain, threatens Gigalith, and still destroys Quagsire. Stored Power provides better coverage and tends to be more devastating, though. With 64 Speed EVs, Comfey outspeeds Jolly Sandslash. Thwackey is a required partner, immediately setting Grassy Terrain for Comfey upon switch-in. Thwackey also shares a number of checks with Comfey, mainly Poison- and Steel-types, and can weaken them for it with Knock Off and U-turn. Comfey can't deal meaningful damage to Steel-types such as Doublade and Ferroseed, so Pokemon like Thievul and Hitmonlee are valuable teammates to have. These Pokemon also more immediately threaten foes like Gigalith and appreciate Comfey annoying walls like Audino and Quagsire. Coalossal can support Comfey by both setting and removing entry hazards and taking hits from foes like Charizard and Togedemaru. Rest has more PP than Synthesis, always fully restores Comfey's HP, and synergizes well with Natural Cure. However, the move virtually forces Comfey to switch out upon use lest it be totally helpless, thus offering foes free turns. 16 Speed EVs let Comfey outrun Modest Magneton. Since Comfey is walled by Steel- and Poison-types like Togedemaru and Garbodor, Pokemon like Charizard and Galarian Articuno are great teammates. Charizard notably gains the ability to drop Defog thanks to Comfey and also appreciates it switching into Knock Off, while Galarian Articuno benefits a lot from the pivoting support that Comfey provides. Pokemon that are especially vulnerable to Dark- and Fighting-types, such as Jellicent, Doublade, and Sneasel, like having Comfey to fall back on against such threats and can help make up for its passivity. Wish support from the likes of Togedemaru and Audino helps Comfey remain healthy without quickly burning through Synthesis's limited PP. These Pokemon also form a good defensive core with Comfey, switching into irksome foes like Ribombee for it. Comfey can potentially run either Aromatherapy or Toxic instead of Defog to act as a cleric or punish switch-ins like Charizard, respectively; however, such a tradeoff requires dedicating another teamslot to entry hazard removal and takes away from this set's main niche.
Aurorus (XY competitive strategy): Aurorus's movepool and abilities cement its position as one of the most fearsome wallbreakers in the tier. It has Refrigerate to bolster its strong Normal-type moves and Snow Warning for a perfectly accurate Blizzard, giving it very strong Ice-type attacks to pound foes with. Aurorus's access to Freeze-Dry makes it incredibly reliable for breaking bulky cores that rely on their resistances as opposed to sheer bulk. Aurorus also boasts a large number of coverage options that let it handle almost any other obstacle, with its Ground-type attacks forming perfect neutral coverage alongside Aurorus's Ice-type moves. However, Aurorus's typing plagues it with common weaknesses to Fighting-, Water-, Grass-, and Ground-type moves, which when coupled with its mediocre Speed make it rather easy to revenge kill. Refrigerate Hyper Voice is very strong and can penetrate Substitutes as well. Blizzard is the move of choice if Aurorus chooses Snow Warning, and it slightly outdamages Refrigerate Hyper Voice factoring in hail damage. Freeze-Dry smacks Water-types such Lanturn, Gorebyss, and Mantine, OHKOing the last, usually making it the safest move to lock into and throw out against bulkier cores. It also deters the likes of Samurott and Poliwrath from trying to switch into Aurorus and threaten it out. Earth Power allows Aurorus to OHKO Pyroar, Eviolite Combusken, and Klinklang, as well as 2HKO Assault Vest Magmortar and opposing Aurorus. Frost Breath allows Aurorus to break through Calm Mind users such as Mega Audino and Musharna. Psychic is an option to hit Hariyama, although that is the extent of its usefulness. Maximum Special Attack investment with a Modest nature maximizes Aurorus's damage output. Maximum Speed investment is used to outspeed as many Pokemon as possible, but a Timid nature should not be considered, as it doesn't allow Aurorus to outspeed anything relevant. The remaining EVs should not be placed into HP, as that would only allow Aurorus to switch into Stealth Rock three times. Choice Specs gives Aurorus tremendous power, boosting its wallbreaking potential; it also helps facilitate Aurorus's hit-and-run role, allowing Aurorus to deal as much damage as possible in one blow before being forced out. If Aurorus's teammates are hindered by hail (primarily Synthesis or Moonlight users, weather sweepers, and Sturdy users), Refrigerate is the safer, no-drawback ability to use. If your team isn't too heavily affected by hail or benefits from hail's disruption against the opposing team, Snow Warning can be used. Due to Aurorus's low Speed and exploitable typing, it mainly functions as a hit-and-run Pokemon. It usually uses a combination of its resistances and decent bulk to switch into foes like Weezing, Scyther, Haunter, Xatu, Articuno, and Choice Specs Swellow. From there, Aurorus can usually just click its most powerful Ice-type attack to shred the opponent's team, unless there is a particularly bulky foe that warrants the use of its other attacks. Although Aurorus can punch sizable holes into teams at any stage in the game, it should usually be used early-game to maximize wallbreaking opportunities. While Aurorus doesn't require entry hazard control to function, keeping Stealth Rock off its side of the field is helpful to preserve Aurorus's health, as it switches in and out often. Snow Warning has additional utility, as it allows Aurorus to disrupt the recovery of Vileplume, Gourgeist, and Musharna and proceed to threaten them with its powerful Ice-type moves. Aurorus pairs excellently with Fighting-type Pokemon, such as Combusken and Primeape, as Aurorus can easily threaten the likes of Weezing, Gourgeist-Super, Vileplume, Musharna, Xatu, Swellow, and Pelipper and boasts the ability to switch in on most of them. In return, the Fighting-types do away with Steel- and Rock-types that may threaten Aurorus and help improve Aurorus's matchup against faster teams. Fighting-types also happen to be Aurorus's greatest enemies, as they easily force it out; Pokemon such as Mesprit, Xatu, Weezing, Vileplume, Pelipper, and Musharna are examples of good teammates that can switch into said Fighting-types. VoltTurn support from the likes of Scyther, Primeape, Rotom, and Swellow is nice to get Aurorus into battle safely or against a favorable matchup. While not necessary, Pokemon that can remove or prevent Stealth Rock can make for favorable teammates; in particular, Hitmonchan is yet another Fighting-type that benefits from Aurorus's wallbreaking, whereas Xatu and Pelipper cover many of Aurorus's weaknesses. Because Aurorus is slow and usually only threatens bulky Pokemon, fast attackers or setup sweepers are helpful to patch up Aurorus's weakness to faster teams. The likes of Tauros, Swellow, Scyther, Shiftry, and Lilligant fit the bill, with a few of them also covering some of Aurorus's weaknesses; in return all of them appreciate Aurorus's ability to pressure most of their checks. Aurorus also likes partners that can provide speed control, such as Thunder Wave Xatu, Stun Spore Vileplume, and Tailwind Swellow. If running Snow Warning Aurorus, it is important to note which Pokemon can benefit or get hindered from Hail. Rotom-F becomes an interesting teammate, as it can switch into Ground-type moves and its sole Ice-type STAB move in Blizzard becomes perfectly accurate. For the latter reason, Aurorus's teammates may consider Blizzard over Ice Beam as coverage moves. Some teammates may adapt around hail, such as Magic Guard Kadabra and Clefairy, whereas Pokemon that rely on weather for recovery, such as Vileplume, Gourgeist-Super, and Musharna, may not be advisable as teammates at all. Aurorus makes for a decent Stealth Rock user as few entry hazard removers would dare attempt to remove Stealth Rock in front of it, much less stay in. Blizzard is Aurorus's best attack and allows Aurorus to anti-lead by OHKOing most other Focus Sash leads as well as threaten entry hazard removers such as Xatu, Shiftry, and Claydol. Freeze-Dry allows Aurorus to hit Water-types, particularly Defog users such as Pelipper, Prinplup, and Mantine, as well as Rapid Spin Kabutops. Rock Tomb is crucial for its Speed-lowering effect and is favored over Icy Wind for its additional coverage against Fire-types, particularly Assault Vest Magmortar, and Jynx, which also lessens the need for Earth Power. Maximum Speed with a Speed-boosting nature allows Aurorus to set up Stealth Rock on as many foes as possible before it risks being KOed, as well as outspeed everything up to Tauros after a Rock Tomb. A Hasty nature is used over Timid to preserve Rock Tomb's power, and it is used over Naive nature because Aurorus's special bulk is still salvageable, whereas altering Aurorus's Defense stat does not affect its ability to withstand the physical hits it can or cannot take. 32 Attack EVs let Rock Tomb cleanly 2HKO Assault Vest Magmortar and nearly guarantee the 2HKO on Pyroar after hail damage, assuming Pyroar has not taken Life Orb recoil. The remaining EVs go into Special Attack to power up Blizzard and Freeze-Dry. Focus Sash guarantees that Aurorus will get to use Rock Tomb or set up Stealth Rock. Snow Warning helps to disrupt any other Focus Sash suicide leads, and the chip damage can increase Aurorus's chances of KOing the foe with Blizzard after using Rock Tomb. Aurorus plays the role as a dedicated offensive lead on the team that gives little leeway for the opponent to gain ground, especially with its ability to ward off entry hazard removers. This by extension means Aurorus functions like a suicide lead, so it does not need to be preserved. Aurorus can set up Stealth Rock against a slower foe and proceed with attacking as usual. If Aurorus is up against a faster foe not exceeding base 110 Speed and lacking priority moves, Aurorus should lead off with Rock Tomb to slow the foe down; this gives Aurorus more flexibility and wriggle room when deciding its next course of action. If Aurorus's Focus Sash is still intact, it should try to KO its target, as it can set up Stealth Rock on the next foe anyway by repeating the process. If Aurorus has taken damage or cannot immediately KO its foe, it can just set up Stealth Rock and let its teammates revenge kill the slowed threat. Aurorus best fits on offensive teams, which best capitalize on its efficient Stealth Rock setup or early damage. Ghost-types such as Rotom, Haunter, Golurk, and Mismagius can block Rapid Spin, making them great teammates. Offensive Garbodor is an interesting partner; it can set up Spikes to complement Aurorus's Stealth Rock, cover for it against priority attacks, and even use Explosion to prevent the foe from using Defog or Rapid Spin. Aurorus's other teammates should aim to keep the offensive pressure up and give no room for the opponent to try to clear Stealth Rock; Pokemon like Swellow, Jynx, Tauros, Pyroar, Barbaracle, Gorebyss, and Shiftry are such examples of powerful Pokemon with immediate offensive presence. Choice Band Aurorus is a very viable alternative, as Aurorus has the movepool for such a set, containing moves like Return, Facade, Earthquake, Zen Headbutt, and even Aqua Tail, with its main draws being that it acts as a powerful physical wallbreaker with strong super effective and neutral coverage and doesn't care about burns. However, the metagame is more prepared for physical attackers in general, and Choice Band Aurorus is somewhat reliant on boosted Facade to exceed the crazily high damage output that Choice Specs Aurorus has. Life Orb is an alternative to a Choice item, but Aurorus heavily dislikes being worn down. Icicle Plate can boost Aurorus's main attacks, but its main attacks are already so easily spammed that being Choice-locked is of little consequence to Aurorus, not to mention the item does not boost Aurorus's coverage moves. Choice Scarf Snow Warning Aurorus can shut down weather sweepers, but its inability to outspeed Floatzel really hurts its overall revenge killing potential. Icy Rock can be used to prolong the duration of hail, but simply using Abomasnow alongside Aurorus is probably more practical than reducing Aurorus's offensive potential. Aurorus has access to Rock Polish, but it is difficult to set up due to Aurorus's low Speed and numerous weaknesses, and its weakness to priority moves such as Mach Punch, Aqua Jet, and Bullet Punch makes it hard to sustain the sweep. Flash Cannon on the Choice Specs set cleanly 2HKOes Piloswine and OHKOes Jynx half of the time.
Aurorus (SM competitive strategy): Aurorus solidifies itself as one of PU's most threatening wallbreakers due to its good offensive typing, fairly high Special Attack, and access to high-powered STAB moves in Blizzard and Refrigerate-boosted Hyper Voice. Both of Aurorus's abilities are brilliant offensively, with Snow Warning giving it a perfectly accurate Blizzard and supplying chip damage on foes and Refrigerate making Normal-type moves into STAB Ice-type attacks and making them stronger. Its access to Freeze-Dry allows it to threaten Water-types that resist Blizzard and Earth Power gives it a way to pressure Steel-types, thus giving it perfect coverage. Aurorus is also capable of pulling off a Choice Scarf set to outspeed and KO some of its offensive checks that attempt to revenge kill it like Victreebel. Aurorus can also function as a lead for offensive teams, taking advantage of its typing allowing it to threaten most forms of entry hazard removal, Snow Warning helping Aurorus against Focus Sash and Sturdy users, and its access to decent support options like Encore and Stealth Rock. Snow Warning allows Aurorus to serve as a decent stop to weather teams, since the hail replaces the weather they had set up upon switching in. Unfortunately, Aurorus's solid bulk is offset by its bad defensive typing, which burdens it with a weakness to both Stealth Rock and common attack typings in Fighting, Grass, Ground, Steel, and Water, though it does leave Aurorus resistant to Normal. Furthermore, Aurorus is prone to being forced out by common offensive Pokemon such as Lycanroc because of its low Speed, forcing it to commonly employ a hit-and-run strategy. Blizzard is Aurorus's strongest attack and becomes rather spammable due to Snow Warning perfecting its otherwise low accuracy. If Aurorus is using Refrigerate over Snow Warning, Hyper Voice should be used. Although it's slightly less powerful than Blizzard and doesn't offer hail to further wear down checks, it does comes with the advantage of hitting Pokemon such as Oricorio-G through their Substitutes and doesn't chip away at any of Aurorus's teammates. Freeze-Dry allows Aurorus to hit Ice-resistant Water-types such as Jellicent, Lanturn, and Poliwrath for super effective damage. Earth Power gives Aurorus coverage for Ice-resistant Pokemon such as Aggron, opposing Aurorus, and Alolan Sandslash. Hidden Power Rock targets Articuno, which would otherwise stall Aurorus out of Blizzards and put it on a timer with Toxic. Flash Cannon can be used over Hidden Power Rock to dent Assault Vest Crabominable, potentially 2HKOing after Stealth Rock damage if Aurorus is Modest. Flash Cannon also threatens to cleanly OHKO opposing Aurorus and 2HKO Cryogonal and specially defensive Articuno. A Modest nature maximizes Aurorus' damage, but a Timid nature can be used instead to outspeed Pokemon like Hitmonchan, Lanturn, and Jolly Aggron as well as Omastar in exchange for some of its power. Choice Specs amplifies Aurorus's wallbreaking capabilities, making its attacks harder to switch into. Snow Warning should be used if Blizzard is chosen over Hyper Voice, as this increases Blizzard's accuracy and chips away at Aurorus's switch-ins. Refrigerate is an alternative that turns Hyper Voice into a strong Ice-type attack and doesn't come with the drawback of wearing down Aurorus's team and crippling teammates that rely on weather-dependent recovery such as Roselia. This set is geared towards wallbreaking, and while it can do so at almost any point, it is best when used to punch holes in teams early-game. While Aurorus's bulk is good, it shouldn't recklessly switch in on attacks it doesn't resist, especially if Stealth Rock is on its side of the field. Aurorus should mainly get in after one of its teammates is KOed, through the use of Volt Switch or U-turn, or on double switches. However, it can switch in on weaker, resisted attacks from the likes of Skuntank and Oricorio-E or on the predicted use of recovery moves against foes like Sableye. Once in, Aurorus should mainly use its strongest Ice-type move, as it will deal a heavy amount of damage to most foes. While both moves are rather spammable, if Aurorus predicts an Ice-resistant foe to switch in, it should use the appropriate coverage move to deal with them. This allows it to more reliably spam Blizzard or Hyper Voice late-game. Aurorus is capable of beating certain offensive threats in a one-on-one situation such as Silvally-Dragon and Swanna; however, doing so often requires Aurorus to take a fair amount of damage first and leaves it unable to break as effectively, so be cognizant of such a trade. Fighting-types such as Hitmonchan and Primeape pair well with Aurorus due to their collective ability to break Steel-types and weaken the specially defensive Pokemon that Aurorus finds itself struggling with. Hitmonchan can offer Aurorus much-appreciated entry hazard control, while Primeape can get Aurorus safely in versus Pokemon like Mudsdale with U-turn. Checks to Fighting-types are also important because of Aurorus's 4x weakness to their STAB attacks, so Pokemon such as Jellicent, Qwilfish and Silvally-Fairy make for good partners, with Silvally-Fairy in particular providing Aurorus with safe switches thanks to Parting Shot and hazard control in Defog. On that note, Aurorus's weakness to Stealth Rock makes entry hazard removal support from Pokemon like Swanna very desirable. Swanna is also capable of checking Fire- and Fighting-types for Aurorus, while Aurorus weakens the specially defensive Pokemon that Swanna tends to bait in such as Eelektross. In addition to hazard removal, entry hazard support is also appreciated due to it further weakening Aurorus's checks, so Pokemon such as Clefairy, the aforementioned Qwilfish, and Omastar make good partners. Late-game special sweepers such as Combusken and Omastar appreciate Aurorus punching holes in teams so that they have an easier time finishing them off. Choice Scarf users such as Primeape and Scyther and Thunder Wave users such as Clefairy can help keep Aurorus's offensive checks in check, giving it an easier time with breaking. Primeape and Scyther can both use U-turn to pivot into Aurorus, which is appreciated due to this giving it an easier time switching in. Other pivots such as Eelektross and Lanturn are good at getting Aurorus in safely against foes, and those two can both further support Aurorus by wearing down switch-ins with Knock Off and Toxic, respectively. If Aurorus is running Snow Warning, Alolan Sandslash makes for a perfect partner due to Slush Rush doubling its Speed under hail. Alolan Sandslash can break through Pokemon like Audino and Clefairy for Aurorus, which both pose as annoyances due to their high special bulk and can also clean late-game. Blizzard is the strongest attack in Aurorus's arsenal, and it becomes rather spammable due to Snow Warning increasing its low accuracy. Freeze-Dry gives Aurorus coverage for Ice-resistant Water-types, allowing to take advantage of builds that rely on Water-types to check Ice-types. Earth Power gives Aurorus coverage for Fire- and Steel-types such as Simisear and Metang. Stone Edge is Aurorus's best move to target Articuno and Cryogonal. A Timid nature in tandem with a Choice Scarf allows Aurorus to outspeed Pokemon in the base 110 Speed tier and below such as Alolan Dugtrio and Scyther. Snow Warning increases Blizzard's accuracy, thus making it reliable. Snow Warning also disrupts weather teams, since it removes the weather they set up, and helps chip away at Aurorus's switchins. Despite lacking a power-boosting item, Choice Scarf Aurorus still functions as a wallbreaker that excels more against offense due to its heightened Speed allowing it to outpace typical offensive checks, and it can also function as a late-game cleaner due to its decent Speed and solid Special Attack. Keep in mind that once Aurorus's set has been revealed, it is much easier to deal with due to its attacks not being as strong as usual, so refrain from making it obvious that Aurorus is using a Choice Scarf unless it is necessary to KO a foe. Aurorus can act as an emergency check to weather teams due to Snow Warning and its ability to outspeed Chlorophyll and Swift Swim users under hail, so after a teammate has been KOed, bring Aurorus in to deal with them. Aurorus should refrain from switching in if Stealth Rock is on its side of the field due to the chip damage shortening its longevity. Similarly, Aurorus should also refrain from switching in on stronger, neutral attacks due to its bulk being only average and this leaving it more susceptible to priority. Keep in mind Stone Edge is quite weak and should only be used to catch Cryogonal and Articuno switching in. Since this set struggles heavily with specially defensive Pokemon, Aurorus appreciates physical wallbreakers such as Mudsdale and Stoutland tearing through most of them. In return, Aurorus can weaken their defensive checks like Qwilfish and remove some of their offensive checks like Oricorio-E. Aurorus appreciates checks to Fighting-types, since they threaten it with 4x super effective STAB attacks, so Pokemon such as Golurk and Oricorio-E are good teammates. Entry hazard removal from Pokemon such as Skuntank is appreciated, since Aurorus's weakness to Stealth Rock can prove quite troublesome when it attempts to switch in on more passive Pokemon. Entry hazard support is also nice due to Aurorus's inability to KO certain offensive checks without a bit of chip damage, so Pokemon such as Metang and Clefairy make for good partners. Despite using a Choice Scarf, Aurorus is not the best way of keeping faster Pokemon in check due to its low Speed, so additional Choice Scarf users such as Primeape and priority moves from Pokemon such as Hitmonchan and Skuntank are appreciated. Blizzard is Aurorus's strongest attack, and it is not hindered by its low accuracy thanks to Snow Warning. Encore dissuades the use of entry hazards, setup moves, and recovery, allowing Aurorus to either set up Stealth Rock or use Blizzard with fewer issues. Rock Tomb prevents Ice-types such as Articuno from freely switching in on Aurorus. It also lowers the Speed of foes, which helps Aurorus outspeed opposing leads and set up Stealth Rock more easily while also supporting slower teammates. Earth Power is another option for the last slot, which allows Aurorus to remove Aggron and damage Alolan Sandslash on the switch. Freeze-Dry provides useful coverage alongside Blizzard, but is somewhat unnecessary coverage for the set as it doesn't need to be able to significantly damage Water-types like Poliwrath or Lanturn in most cases. Focus Sash allows Aurorus to always take one hit from full health, meaning that it will almost always set up Stealth Rock or use Blizzard. Snow Warning is chosen to perfect the accuracy of Blizzard, to break opposing Focus Sash and Sturdy, and to chip away at defensive Pokemon. Aurorus should almost always be the lead for teams, as its main priority should be to set up Stealth Rock as soon as possible. After doing so, Aurorus should mainly use Blizzard to punish incoming entry hazard removers or Encore to disrupt them as they remove Stealth Rock. Aurorus doesn't need to be preserved like other users of Stealth Rock, since it is a lead, so don't feel too pressured to keep it around. However, if it is paired with Alolan Sandslash, it may prove useful not to let it get KOed immediately after setting Stealth Rock due to the hail support Aurorus offers. If running Encore, use it on the predicted use of entry hazards, setup moves, or recovery moves, as this can create chances for Aurorus to set up Stealth Rock or use Blizzard, as well as setup opportunities for Aurorus's teammates. If using Rock Tomb, use it on faster foes such as Simisear so that Aurorus has a better chance of either setting up Stealth Rock or using Blizzard. This set functions best on offensive teams that can take advantage of the entry hazards and hail racking up damage on opposing teams. The more offensive the team, the less likely it is that Stealth Rock can be removed. Due to Slush Rush doubling its Speed under hail, Alolan Sandslash appreciates having Aurorus as a partner, as this gives it an easier time breaking through and sweeping teams. Setup sweepers such as Alolan Persian, Omastar, and Oricorio-E appreciate their defensive switch-ins being worn down by a combination of Stealth Rock and hail damage as well as Aurorus's ability to potentially create setup opportunities for them with Encore. Spinblockers such as Jellicent, Oricorio-G, and Sableye prevent the removal of Stealth Rock via Rapid Spin and also pressure common users of Defog such as Silvally-Fairy and Skuntank. Due to Defiant allowing it to deter and punish the use of Defog in an attempt to remove Stealth Rock, Primeape can make for a good partner. Spikes setters like Roselia and Qwilfish pair well with Aurorus, as they apply further pressure to teams by increasing the residual damage they're forced to take when switching. A Modest nature on the Choice Scarf set sounds useful for increasing Aurorus's damage output, but it then loses the ability to outspeed Pokemon in the base 110 Speed tier. Frost Breath can also be used over Hidden Power Rock on Choice Specs Aurorus to strike users of Calm Mind such as Clefairy, Musharna, and Spiritomb with a critical hit, ignoring any potential Special Defense boosts they may have obtained. It has very little use outside of this, however. Ancient Power may sound decent over Hidden Power Rock, since it offers a chance to increase all of Aurorus's stats, but it has less PP than Hidden Power Rock, making it easier for Articuno to stall out. Hidden Power Fighting can be used on the Choice Specs set instead of Earth Power, notably allowing for an OHKO on Alolan Sandslash and Aurorus, but this prevents you from threatening Metang and forces you to use Ancient Power instead of Hidden Power Rock. A Choice Band set of Return, Facade, Earthquake, and Zen Headbutt may surprise many of Aurorus's normal switch-ins, but the Choice Specs set has more initial firepower and is more adept at breaking because of this. Rock Polish can be used to turn Aurorus into more of a sweeper; however, it's still outsped by Choice Scarf users such as Primeape at +2, running Rock Polish prevents it from using Choice Specs, and its susceptibility to Mach Punch and Aqua Jet hampers the viability of such a set. Other items that don't lock Aurorus into one move such as Never-Melt Ice and Life Orb can be used, but Never-Melt Ice only increases the power of its Ice-type moves and leaves Aurorus's other moves noticeably weaker, and the recoil taken from Life Orb isn't appreciated, especially when coupled with its vulnerability to both Stealth Rock and common priority. Shuca Berry can be used on the lead set to allow Aurorus to have an easier time stomaching Ground-type attacks from Pokemon like Kangaskhan, though Focus Sash tends to be more consistent.
Aurorus (SS competitive strategy): Aurorus has a small but solid niche as a dedicated Stealth Rock lead on hail hyper offense teams. Thanks to its typing, it can scare out most entry hazard removers such as Dhelmise, Crobat, and Togekiss, thus allowing it to keep Stealth Rock up until it is KOed. Furthermore, Encore dissuades foes from setting entry hazards, and it can provide teammates an opportunity to take advantage of a locked-in foe. However, Aurorus is very slow and has a terrible defensive typing, which makes it hard to do much beyond setting Stealth Rock early-game. For other roles, Abomasnow and Vanilluxe completely outclass it as a primary hail setter or wallbreaker, respectively. With a Modest nature, Blizzard OHKOes common entry hazard removers such as Crobat and Dhelmise, which Freeze-Dry fails to do. Encore discourages opposing hazard setters and setup sweepers such as Registeel, Metagross, and Reuniclus from taking advantage of Aurorus, and it potentially opens setup opportunities for its teammates. Earth Power hits Steel- and Fire-types like Lucario and Chandelure directly. Alternatively, Thunder Wave can cripple them, alongside problematic Pokemon like Choice Scarf Heracross and Gardevoir. Finally, Focus Sash guarantees Stealth Rock goes up against the majority of the metagame. Because of its place in dedicated hail teams, Aurorus is always paired with a secondary hail setter; Abomasnow is almost always preferred because it can deal with Water-types, which can be troublesome for hail teams. This secondary setter is especially important considering that Aurorus must be played offensively, so it's unlikely to survive into the late-game. Similarly, Arctovish and Alolan Sandslash are hail staples, forming a fearsome offensive core and wearing down their own checks together. Hail teams appreciate a lot of role compression in the last two teamslots; glue Pokemon like Xatu, Starmie, Flygon, and Crobat can check off several important requirements, such as checking Fire-, Fighting-, and Steel-types while removing entry hazards. Complements to the offensive hail core, like Toxicroak and Raikou, can be considered as well; Toxicroak sets up on Water-types and Golisopod, while Raikou, besides smashing Water-types, can use Weather Ball in hail to cover Grass- and Dragon-types in one move. Spinblockers like Mimikyu and Doublade can preserve Aurorus's Stealth Rock. Aurorus can run Aurora Veil as its last move, helping its teammates set up before it is KOed, although it has to give up a valuable move and is often too slow to fully take advantage of the move. A defensive Stealth Rock set is a niche primary hail setter over Abomasnow, as Aurorus beats most entry hazard removers, checks Flying-types, and sets Stealth Rock in one teamslot. However, Abomasnow being able to beat Water-types is generally far more important than Aurorus handling hazard setters like Klefki, Nidoqueen, and Metagross, making this set almost entirely unused.
Tapu Koko (SM competitive strategy): Tapu Koko is the main power source for many of the amped-up offense teams in the tier; its signature Electric Surge ability supercharges both its own Thunderbolt and Volt Switch and its teammates' Electric-type attacks drastically, linking up well with the likes of Thunder Punch Mega Medicham and Fusion Bolt Kyurem-B. Tapu Koko's rapid Speed combined with a Terrain-boosted Volt Switch more than makes up for its subpar Special Attack stat and establishes it as an incredibly dangerous offensive pivot. It can go all-in with Choice Specs as well as reduce its reliance on prediction with Life Orb, and it can even tap into its considerably better but harder-to-use Attack stat with an Electrium Z + Wild Charge variant. Tapu Koko's defensive profile is surprisingly impressive too, able to keep the likes of Tornadus-T and Zapdos in check and step in against Hawlucha while healthy. However, it cannot be understated that Tapu Koko relies on Electric Terrain to patch up its quite disappointing Special Attack stat, and this can be seen in the drop in power of its coverage moves or even Dazzling Gleam. Additionally, its bulk is poor, so it can rarely afford to switch directly into attacks and is vulnerable to being picked off by some of the strong priority moves in the tier. Thunderbolt is the scariest attack that Tapu Koko can dish out, denting targets like Magearna and Heatran that try to temporarily stand in its way. Dazzling Gleam doesn't have the same raw power, but it can deal consistent damage to Ground-types like Landorus-T and Seismitoad, Grass-types like Tapu Bulu, and Dragon-types like Kyurem-B and Mega Latias. Hidden Power Ice is enough to decimate defensive Landorus-T and Gliscor and can hit a lot of the same targets as Dazzling Gleam for considerably less, but still respectable damage. Volt Switch is the crown jewel of this set; being able to dish out such good damage while escaping danger and building momentum is nigh unanswerable. Choice Specs Tapu Koko's use revolves around setting the stage for it to spam its Terrain-boosted Volt Switch safely without fear of Ground-types or other Volt Switch blockers. Getting Stealth Rock up from the get-go can help start to chip onto Landorus-T throughout a match, though Tapu Koko makes an incredible lead in itself; depending on the opposing team, it can force difficult choices from the beginning. Another benefit of leading with Tapu Koko is being able to scout Choice Scarf Landorus-T from the lead matchup based on whether Electric Surge or Intimidate activates first. Due to its typing coupled with its Speed and immediate power, Tapu Koko can switch into plenty of neutral hits in an emergency, and it doesn't find it difficult at all to get entry on the likes of Tornadus-T, Toxapex, and Zapdos. This variant of Tapu Koko is best served on offense teams; it wants quick games where its lack of longevity and unimpressive bulk won't hinder it and potent wallbreaking teammates that can soften up foes for it to pick off. Landorus-T is virtually impossible to miss as a teammate; it provides Stealth Rock, additional pivoting, and a solid check to Ground-types. Other pivots like Assault Vest Magearna and Victini go hand-in-hand, playing the same game as Tapu Koko in regards to pivoting around and spreading damage. Mega Medicham and Kyurem-B are exemplary wallbreakers that can smash through walls, making stopgaps like Landorus-T, Magearna, and Ferrothorn wish they never existed. Additionally, they benefit from Electric Terrain with Thunder Punch and Fusion Bolt, with Mega Medicham now able to bludgeon would-be checks Reuniclus and Mega Sableye with two Thunder Punches in Electric Terrain and Kyurem-B 2HKOing Magearna and Jirachi in similar circumstances. Electric Seed Hawlucha is an elite cleaner that gets all the chemicals it needs from Tapu Koko's terrain; with a Speed boost from Unburden and a Defense boost to aid its setup, Hawlucha can take advantage of the Ground-types that Tapu Koko despises and finish off games. Calm Mind allows Tapu Koko to take advantage of its high Speed to become incredibly hard to play around for opposing offense teams, as it even outspeeds and OHKOes fast revenge killers like Greninja and Weavile. Tapu Koko makes use of Twinkle Tackle as a remarkably efficient neutral hit that threatens Ground-types like Garchomp, Landorus-T, Seismitoad, and the uncommon Hippowdon after a boost. Twinkle Tackle is additionally useful for other neutral targets that are not Ground-types, like Serperior, Mega Charizard X, and opposing Tapu Koko. Dazzling Gleam also generally synergizes well with Tapu Koko's Thunderbolt, as it can hit Dragon-types like Kommo-o and Mega Latias super effectively and Ground-types and Grass-types like Landorus-T and Serperior neutrally. Roost allows Tapu Koko to consistently set up on special attackers like Zapdos and Assault Vest Magearna by making use of Special Defense boosts to outheal anything thrown at it. A Timid nature is used to outspeed Weavile and Greninja, which are two crucial targets. 8 HP and 4 Defense EVs ensure that Tapu Koko survives a +2 High Jump Kick from Hawlucha after Stealth Rock. Tapu Koko can also run a spread of 24 HP / 16 Def / 252 SpA / 216 Spe to survive a Leaf Blade from Kartana after Stealth Rock while still outspeeding Weavile. Despite its unimpressive defensive stats, Tapu Koko's great typing allows it to switch in on Zapdos and Tornadus-T and threaten to set up. Tapu Koko is most effective when Pokemon that can revenge kill it, like Choice Scarf Landorus-T, are out of the picture, as there is very little some teams can do to Tapu Koko once it gets going due to its Speed. Tapu Koko should save its Z-Move until after setting up to reach crucial OHKO ranges such as defensive Landorus-T and Serperior, as well as efficiently picking off chipped Seismitoad and Gastrodon. It can be helpful to keep an eye on Tapu Koko's health, as at high HP it can set up on the aforementioned special attacking Pokemon as well as check Hawlucha. Tapu Koko is incredibly threatening against hyper offense teams, as it can freely set up on the incredibly common lead Mew, force a Calm Mind against an unboosted Serperior due to its immunity to Glare, and threaten to OHKO Kommo-o and Gyarados without a boost. In matchups that are too volatile for Tapu Koko to safely set up a Calm Mind, its Z-Move can be used to maximize damage, being even stronger than terrain-boosted Thunderbolt. This set is best at supporting offense and balance teams that appreciate its incredible matchup against opposing offense and hyper offense teams. Spikes support from Greninja or Ferrothorn can chip down Gastrodon, opposing Ferrothorn, and Chansey for Tapu Koko, which is helpful as they are some of Tapu Koko's best checks. Defensive Landorus-T and Rotom-W can handle Sand Rush Excadrill and Mega Swampert, which are two blazingly fast weather threats that are well equipped against Tapu Koko due to their typing; these teammates can also bring the relatively frail Tapu Koko safely onto the field with slow pivoting. Fire-types like Mega Charizard X, Heatran, and Victini can easily threaten Grass-types like Ferrothorn and Tapu Bulu for Tapu Koko and appreciate Tapu Koko threatening Fire-resistant Pokemon like Toxapex, Slowbro, Mega Latias, and Kommo-o. Kartana can plow through Ground-types like Gastrodon and bait in the likes of Zapdos, Tornadus-T, and Skarmory for Tapu Koko to take advantage of, as well as blocking Leech Seed attempts from Ferrothorn. Wallbreakers like Mega Charizard X, Swords Dance Gliscor, and Kyurem-B appreciate Tapu Koko's ability to force switches, and in return, they can clear the way for Tapu Koko to clean late-game. Wild Charge is a disappointing move in itself, but it is certainly the best candidate to harness Tapu Koko's stronger Attack stat. With Electrium Z, it's supercharged into an immense no-drawback weapon that can blow back specially bulky Pokemon like Assault Vest Magearna, Chansey, and Mega Tyranitar, among other things. Even while uninvested, Tapu Koko still makes use of its trusty Hidden Power Ice to hit Landorus-T and Garchomp. U-turn seems like a strange one for the Pokemon boasting the strongest Volt Switch in the tier, but it's a very safe pivoting option that covers everything, including Ground-types. Roost allows Tapu Koko to stick around to check Tornadus-T and Tapu Fini, and it can even heal off Wild Charge damage if it ever comes to that. A Hasty nature is used to preserve some Special Defense to take on Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Ash-Greninja's Dark Pulse with. Tapu Koko works well as an early- or mid-game wallbreaker, making great use of the surprise factor to target special walls like Assault Vest Magearna, Heatran, and Chansey with Gigavolt Havoc. In all cases, but especially when facing particularly tricky Ground-types like Excadrill and Gastrodon, get Spikes up early so that U-turn can rack up damage more efficiently. In some cases, Tapu Koko is better to keep around in the back, such as on balance teams where it's tasked with revenge killing impossible threats like Manaphy. Don't bother trying to delay using the Z-Move that much, because using Hidden Power Ice or U-turn will essentially reveal Tapu Koko's set due to the lessened damage of uninvested Hidden Power Ice or the increased damage of U-turn. This variant of Tapu Koko fits on anything from offense to semi-stall, functioning well as part of a bigger offensive core as well as a solo attacker on bulky teams. Spikers like Ferrothorn and Skarmory can enable Tapu Koko's U-turn to the fullest, digging into the likes of Seismitoad and Gastrodon upon each switch-in. Ash-Greninja is a more offensive option that can benefit from Tapu Koko breaking through Assault Vest Magearna and Chansey directly. Heatran is another entry hazard setter that can accompany Tapu Koko on all archetypes, able to melt through Ferrothorn and Tapu Bulu to boot. Hawlucha remains an incredible teammate to benefit from Electric Terrain, able to use Ground-type foes as setup fodder and clean up once Tapu Koko softens the opposing team with Gigavolt Havoc. To build momentum with Tapu Koko, pivots like Landorus-T, Magearna, and Tornadus-T make for sensible teammates. Thunderbolt is Tapu Koko's consistent source of damage, and it's still worth using even alongside Volt Switch to be able to avoid the forced switch when it's unwanted. Hidden Power Ice punishes Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Gliscor coming in to pivot on Thunderbolt or block Volt Switch. Volt Switch is a more active way to spread damage while accomplishing the main goal of generating momentum, but U-turn is a solid option to prevent the likes of Seismitoad and Excadrill from killing Tapu Koko's momentum, though on Life Orb sets it isn't ideal due to both revealing Tapu Koko's item and racking up recoil in exchange for often minimal damage. Roost lets Tapu Koko heal off entry hazard damage and recoil from Life Orb, preventing opponents from relying on chip damage alone to handle it. Hidden Power Fire is a niche option for Life Orb sets that can more directly punish Ferrothorn as it switches in, 2HKOing it after Stealth Rock. 8 HP EVs and 4 Defense EVs ensure Tapu Koko survives +2 High Jump Kick from Hawlucha after Stealth Rock. A Timid nature is used to outspeed Weavile and Greninja. Alternatively, a spread of 24 HP / 16 Def / 252 SpA / 216 Spe can be used to avoid the OHKO from Kartana's Leaf Blade after Stealth Rock while hitting the aforementioned Speed benchmarks. Life Orb is a great balance between the immediate power and prediction-reliant nature of Choice Specs and the less immediately powerful variants like Calm Mind. However, the recoil damage from Life Orb gives Tapu Koko a harder time staying healthy enough to answer the likes of Hawlucha, Tornadus-T, and Mega Pinsir. Electrium Z is great for burst damage against the likes of Heatran and Tapu Lele. Shuca Berry allows Tapu Koko to safely attack against potential Choice Scarf Landorus-T, being able to 2HKO both Landorus-T and Garchomp with Hidden Power Ice. It also comes in handy against sweepers that use Ground-type coverage to hit Tapu Koko, like Mega Gyarados and Mega Pinsir. This set generates momentum to bring in offensive teammates while also spreading chip damage and providing useful speed control. Entry hazards are important to get on the field early; Life Orb Tapu Koko is very consistently able to grab a KO with Hidden Power Ice against maximum HP Landorus-T after Stealth Rock, and Spikes are generally useful against the metagame, compounding with Volt Switch or U-turn damage against the likes of Ferrothorn, Seismitoad, and Chansey. Volt Switch variants aren't worth bringing in as much when facing a Ground-type that is unbothered by Hidden Power Ice, but when the opposing Ground-type is something like Landorus-T or, better yet, has been KOed, then it's highly beneficial to get Tapu Koko on the field often to chip down the likes of Assault Vest Magearna and Chansey with Volt Switch. This set is generally seen on offense and bulky offense teams, similar to its Choice Specs variant, with the main benefit being that it has less risk when pivoting out because it can switch moves. Spikes from Greninja or Ferrothorn are a very natural addition to this set, making its Volt Switch sting more against the likes of opposing Ferrothorn and Chansey and U-turn aggravating Seismitoad, Excadrill, and Gastrodon much more. Electric Seed Hawlucha, Kyurem-B, and Thunder Punch Mega Medicham are great benefactors of both Tapu Koko's Electric Terrain, which triggers Hawlucha's Unburden ability and powers up Kyurem-B's and Mega Medicham's Electric-type coverage moves, and its proficiency at safely bringing them in with offensive pressure. Landorus-T and Magearna are already near auto-inclusions for offense teams, but they're worth mentioning as good examples of other pivots to pair with Tapu Koko to further the goal of generating offensive pressure with repeated pivoting into threats. Another example of a pivoting teammate is Mega Scizor, which has the added benefit of setting up on various Pokemon that check Tapu Koko, such as Mega Latias and Tapu Bulu. Nature's Madness can be used alongside Taunt for consistently cutting into walls and making the damage stick, but it really cuts into Tapu Koko's moveslots. Iapapa Berry gives Tapu Koko some extra longevity and an edge while aggressively trading damage with Nature's Madness. On hyper offense teams, Tapu Koko can potentially run a dual screens set with Light Clay, which is able to support teammates like Shift Gear Magearna and Dragon Dance Mega Tyranitar. Hidden Power Fire can be used to deal serious damage to Ferrothorn and Excadrill. Grass Knot specializes in handling Mega Swampert, Gastrodon, and Seismitoad. Even Choice Scarf can be used to allow Tapu Koko to revenge kill virtually the entire tier, being able to catch the likes of Mega Alakazam with Wild Charge, Choice Scarf Kartana with Hidden Power Fire, and Volcarona with Brave Bird.
Tapu Koko (SS competitive strategy): Tapu Koko is one of the best pivots in the tier, owing to its lightning-fast Speed, ability to generate momentum like none other with access to both Volt Switch and U-turn, and its sizable offensive presence that forces switches from common metagame threats like Tornadus-T and Weavile. It can threaten the tier's defensive Water-types and Flying-types like Slowbro, Toxapex, and Corviknight with ease and can even make good use of its resistances to Flying, Fighting, and Dark, keeping healthy with Roost and defensively checking the likes of Tornadus-T and Zapdos. It has the option to set up with Calm Mind, with its incredible Speed stat giving it an edge against offensive teams and making it challenging to revenge kill. Despite all of this, however, Tapu Koko's lackluster defensive stats and mediocre base Special Attack stat cannot be ignored, and faster Pokemon like Timid Choice Specs Dragapult and Choice Scarf Kartana are able to force it out. Tapu Koko makes great use of its incredible Speed to offensively check the likes of Weavile and Modest Dragapult with its STAB Dazzling Gleam and defensively check and outspeed Tornadus-T and Zapdos with its chosen Electric-type STAB move. Dazzling Gleam also allows Tapu Koko to hit Ground-types like Garchomp and Landorus-T as well as other Electric-resistant targets like Rillaboom. U-turn is used to build momentum and capitalize on the switches that it can force due to its attacking power and Speed, and Toxic can be used on Volt Switch variants to put Electric-immune Pokemon like Landorus-T, Gastrodon, and Zeraora on a timer. The trade-off of dropping Thunderbolt for Volt Switch is that Tapu Koko can no longer reliably pressure Slowking and specially defensive Toxapex; however, Volt Switch can take a chunk out of Heatran as Tapu Koko pivots out, and it opens up a moveslot to run the aforementioned Toxic. Tapu Koko can rely on Roost to heal off chip damage and act as a consistent defensive check to Tornadus-T and Zapdos. Heavy-Duty Boots are a crucial part of Tapu Koko's role as a pivot, ignoring any entry hazards that would otherwise eat away at Tapu Koko's health as it pivots throughout the game. Threats like Jolly Weavile and Modest Dragapult that sit above Tapu Koko's neutral-natured Speed tier necessitate that it always runs a Timid nature. Teams ranging from offensive to balanced very much appreciate Tapu Koko's momentum-grabbing and revenge killing capabilities. Tapu Koko loves the presence of Stealth Rock and especially Spikes to dig into checks like Ferrothorn and Gastrodon as it pivots out, so entry hazard setters like Landorus-T, Hippowdon, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn can enable Tapu Koko to be much more of a menace. Building off of the last point, Knock Off users like Weavile, Ferrothorn, and Clefable can remove Heavy-Duty Boots from opposing defensive Pokemon like Gastrodon and Blissey and open them up to hazard damage. Slow pivots like Slowbro and Landorus-T are ideal partners for working in tandem with Tapu Koko to constantly grab momentum and bring Tapu Koko in safely. Wallbreakers like Swords Dance Weavile, Choice Band Urshifu-R, and Victini are great recipients of Tapu Koko's pivoting support, as they can break through Ground-types like Landorus-T and Hippowdon as well as Ferrothorn. The last two can take advantage of Tapu Koko's Electric Terrain boosting Thunder Punch and Bolt Strike, respectively, allowing them to 2HKO Toxapex, and they can even work as part of a powerful pivoting core with Tapu Koko. Using its wonderful Speed stat, Tapu Koko poses an immense threat with Calm Mind boosts, being able to clean up weakened teams late-game with its Terrain-boosted Thunderbolt. Dazzling Gleam allows Tapu Koko to cleave through the likes of Dragapult and Electric-immune Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Zeraora. Roost allows it to shrug off attacks from foes like Zapdos and Tornadus-T while using them as setup fodder. Tapu Koko wields a Timid nature to outrun the likes of Weavile and Modest Dragapult, stopping them from revenge killing it while boosted. Heavy-Duty Boots allows it to ignore entry hazards, giving it even more setup opportunities. Tapu Koko fits well on balance and semi-stall teams that appreciate its high Speed and ability to both revenge kill and act as a wincon. Entry hazards like Stealth Rock and more notably Spikes synergize incredibly with Tapu Koko, as they work away at checks like Galarian Slowking, Gastrodon, and opposing Ferrothorn, paving a way for Tapu Koko to clean up late-game; therefore, hazard setters like Hippowdon, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory are good partners. Ferrothorn is a notable hazard setter as it's able to remove Heavy-Duty Boots from Pokemon like Blissey with Knock Off, opening them up to hazard damage. Wallbreakers like Victini and Urshifu-R work well against Tapu Koko's checks like Ferrothorn, specially defensive Heatran, and Blissey, and the Terrain that Tapu Koko sets boosts Bolt Strike and Thunder Punch in return, helping Victini and Urshifu-R against the likes of Slowbro and Toxapex. Offensive Ground-types like Excadrill and Landorus-T, which can take a hit and threaten Tapu Koko in return, are extremely threatening, so defensive checks like Slowbro and Buzzwole make for great teammates. Tapu Koko can specialize as a support Pokemon and run a dual screens set with Light Clay for hyper offense teams, utilizing its great Speed and access to Taunt, with the additional option of setting up Electric Seed Hawlucha. Tapu Koko can use Nature's Madness to chip its checks incredibly efficiently, which is its best way to make progress against Ferrothorn. However, this move is hard to fit, as running Nature's Madness usually necessitates dropping Dazzling Gleam, meaning that Tapu Koko loses its best way to hit Modest Dragapult.
Tapu Koko (SV competitive strategy): Tapu Koko is a very consistent offensive pivot that can fit on a variety of teams, threatening a plethora of Water- and Flying-types such as Toxapex, Slowbro, Tornadus-T, and Zapdos. Tapu Koko also has a remarkable ability to consistently switch into the tier's Electric-types such as Zapdos and Raging Bolt, the aforementioned Flying-types, and Fighting-types such as Zamazenta while also having a Speed tier that outruns many threats such as Ogerpon-W and Tornadus-T. Hidden Power Ice enables Tapu Koko to hit foes such as Landorus-T, Gliscor, and Garchomp while also doing significant damage to Great Tusk. Dazzling Gleam can be used to hit foes such as Raging Bolt and Great Tusk much harder than Hidden Power Ice, though it is significantly weaker against Gliscor and Landorus-T. U-turn allows Tapu Koko to pivot out of Pokemon that handle it defensively such as Galarian Slowking and Ting-Lu while also wearing them down. Volt Switch can be used to avoid chip from contact while dealing decent damage, though it is able to be blocked by Ground-type Pokemon such as Great Tusk and Landorus-T. Electrium Z is used to give Tapu Koko a one-time boost to its already strong Thunderbolt and help it pick off weakened threats such as Melmetal and Heatran and OHKO Pokemon such as Ogerpon-W and Mega Diancie. Fairium Z can be used as an alternative to immediately OHKO foes such as Great Tusk and Raging Bolt. Pokemon such as Iron Valiant and Hawlucha appreciate Tapu Koko’s Electric Surge setting Electric Terrain and activating their abilities. The former also appreciates Tapu Koko beating defensive Pokemon such as Toxapex and Tornadus-T. Landorus-T also likes Tapu Koko as a partner, as it likes its Flying-type checks such as Tornadus-T, Zapdos, and Corviknight being answered by Tapu Koko. In return, Landorus-T brings it in with a U-turn on Pokemon such as Tornadus-T and it immediately threatens Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking, which walls Tapu Koko. Tapu Koko struggles to break through specially bulky Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Galarian Slowking and Ting-Lu, so it appreciates powerful physical wallbreakers such as Mega Medicham, Urshifu-R as well as Pursuit support from Kingambit and Mega Tyranitar. In return, Tapu Koko is able to easily pivot them in with U-turn on these aforementioned checks in addition to checking the Flying-type Pokemon that they struggle with. Choice Specs Tapu Koko makes use of its fast Speed and explosive power to act as a great early-game wallbreaker, dealing out large damage even against neutral targets like Tapu Lele, Gholdengo, and Zapdos. Tapu Koko's Speed allows it to outspeed Pokemon already considered fast, such as Ogerpon-W, Mega Diancie, and Mega Charizard Y. As Tapu Koko breaks down walls like Alomomola and Slowbro, Pokemon like Hawlucha can use that opportunity to clean up easily late-game. Either Volt Switch or U-turn allows Tapu Koko to exert pressure while providing pivoting for the team, with the former being a respectable offensive move itself, while the latter is undeterred by Ground-types such as Garchomp. Hidden Power Ice allows Tapu Koko to do massive damage to Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Great Tusk, notably OHKOing Landorus-T. Tapu Koko fits best on offensive teams, as its Speed, wallbreaking power, and pivoting options are most appreciated by its offensively minded teammates. Due to Tapu Koko's Electric Terrain and its wallbreaking prowess, Quark Drive Pokemon are the clearest beneficiaries, especially those that seek to sweep late-game like Swords Dance Iron Valiant and Iron Moth. Other sweepers also synergize with Tapu Koko, largely since it puts major pressure on some of their checks. For example, Hawlucha appreciates the removal of Slowbro, Moltres, and Toxapex, while Dragonite appreciates the removal of Corviknight and Moltres. Tapu Koko's STAB moves can be walled by several Pokemon, such as Clodsire, Ferrothorn, and Iron Treads. As a result, it appreciates help from the likes of Mega Medicham, Weavile, and Great Tusk. Mega Medicham especially makes for a fierce wallbreaking duo with Tapu Koko, with the former able to dismantle Galarian Slowking and Ferrothorn, two Pokemon that can easily wall Tapu Koko. In return, Tapu Koko can pressure Pokemon that Mega Medicham may struggle to hit, notably Gholdengo and Slowbro. Calm Mind Tapu Koko serves as a potent special attacker and wincon, thanks to Terrain-boosted Thunderbolt and its great Speed stat, allowing it to outspeed common foes that are considered fast, such as Mega Diancie and Ogerpon-W. Using its Calm Mind boosts, Tapu Koko deals a great amount of damage to neutral targets, such as Ogerpon-W, Gholdengo, and Tapu Lele. Tapu Koko can even OHKO Electric-resistant and -immune threats, such as Raging Bolt and Gliscor after Stealth Rock chip using Twinkle Tackle boosted by Fairium Z after one Calm Mind boost. Calm Mind boosts make Tapu Koko capable of setting up in front of foes like Clefable and Raging Bolt. Roost offers reliable recovery, increasing Tapu Koko's longevity by shrugging off attacks from foes like Raging Bolt and healing off entry hazard damage. Calm Mind Tapu Koko fits well on balance teams that appreciate its ability to both revenge kill fast threats like Ogerpon-W and act as a wincon late-game. Pokemon like Urshifu-R and Volcarona benefit from Tapu Koko's ability to pressure bulky Water- and Flying-type foes, such as Toxapex and Moltres; Urshifu-R appreciates the removal of Toxapex and Alomomola while Volcarona appreciates the removal of Moltres and Toxapex. In return, Volcarona and Urshifu-R deal with troublesome walls like Ferrothorn and Ting Lu. Entry hazards like Stealth Rock and Spikes synergize incredibly with Tapu Koko, as they help it secure KOs more reliably and clean up late-game, wearing down checks like Heatran and Ferrothorn. Therefore, entry hazard setters like Ferrothorn, Ting-Lu, and Gliscor are solid partners. Ferrothorn is a notable hazard-setting partner, as it is also able to switch in on troublesome foes for Tapu Koko, such as Melmetal and Ting Lu. There are several Pokemon that can take on Tapu Koko's STAB combination even after Calm Mind boosts, such as Galarian Slowking and Heatran. As a result, Tapu Koko appreciates teammates that threaten these Pokemon, such as Great Tusk and Mega Medicham. Tapu Koko is vulnerable to Ground-types, such as Choice Scarf Landorus-T and Iron Treads, especially because the latter can also take hits from Tapu Koko; therefore, defensive checks like Alomomola and Zapdos are great partners due to their ability to switch in on these Ground-types. Tapu Koko's high Speed allows it to act as a good dual screens lead for hyper offense structures. U-turn gives Tapu Koko a source of momentum for and way to pivot into its teammates, notably being able to pivot against Ground-types such as Landorus-T and Great Tusk that Tapu Koko struggles with. Taunt allows Tapu Koko to deny opposing setup from foes, whether it be entry hazards like Spikes from Ferrothorn or boosting moves like Quiver Dance from Volcarona; this is essential so that Tapu Koko is not completely passive as it sets up, which is especially important to make sure its teammates are not overwhelmed by hazards or boosted threats afterwards. Because of its ability to set Electric Terrain as it sets up dual screens, Quark Drive Pokemon such as Iron Valiant, Iron Moth, and Iron Crown make for fantastic partners, which are able to utilize Tapu Koko's dual screens to set up more comfortably. Iron Moth in particular is able to threaten Corviknight from removing screens via Defog and check Gholdengo, which sets up on Tapu Koko thanks to Good as Gold ignoring Taunt. Similarly, Hawlucha makes for a fantastic teammate, since it is able to reliably set up on the Ground-types that Tapu Koko doesn't like, such as Landorus-T and Iron Treads, while having Taunt to prevent Defog attempts from Zapdos and Tornadus-T; in return, Tapu Koko's Electric Terrain triggers Unburden for Hawlucha through Electric Seed to outspeed threats like Mega Swampert in rain, and boosted Iron Valiant, letting the two handle opposing offense teams more comfortably. Typical offensive threats such as Garchomp, Gholdengo, and Volcarona all appreciate dual screens support for their setup, with the former also being able to set up Stealth Rock to soften up walls while Gholdengo helps maintain dual screens by blocking Defog from Tornadus-T and Corviknight. Terapagos is a strong partner too, being able to remove hazards that Tapu Koko cannot deny safely, such as from Landorus-T, Great Tusk, and Gliscor.
Buzzwole (SS competitive strategy): Buzzwole is an excellent Pokemon in the metagame thanks to its stellar stats, ability, and typing, letting it act as a multi-faceted tank. Thanks to its incredible Defense stat in tandem with its great defensive typing and reliable recovery, Buzzwole can check common physical threats such as Kartana, Rillaboom, Weavile, and Urshifu-R. Additionally, Buzzwole’s high Attack stat alongside amazing coverage options make it a strong offensive presence in its own right, being able to directly threaten the various physical attackers it does well against while also boasting nice coverage against would-be checks like Galarian Slowking and Toxapex. This offensive prowess opens Buzzwole up to two potential roles: it can act as either an offensive tank, flexing its defensive presence while also dishing out offense against the physical Pokemon it checks, or a strong Choice Band wallbreaker capable of stacking Attack boosts with Beast Boost to quickly become a behemoth. However, Buzzwole's low Special Defense stat makes it extremely exploitable by the various special attackers available in the tier, leaving it easily 2HKOed by even neutral hits such as Dragapult's Shadow Ball and Tapu Koko's Thunderbolt. Additionally, Buzzwole's typing, while offering great resistances, gives it horrible weaknesses to common types like Fairy, Fire, and a 4x weakness to Flying, which, in tandem with its mediocre Speed, leaves it vulnerable to being easily overwhelmed by common Pokemon such as Tornadus-T, Tapu Lele, and Zapdos. Chip damage from entry hazards, status, and contact effects like Rocky Helmet and Iron Barbs can wear Buzzwole down quickly, making it more difficult for it to respond to the threats it is tasked with checking. Tank Buzzwole is a formidable offensive threat that can simultaneously wallbreak and act as a physically defensive stalwart against the majority of physical attackers in the tier such as Rillaboom, Garchomp, and Kartana. Ice Punch is a great coverage option, hitting Flying- and Dragon-types like Landorus-T, Dragonite, and Garchomp that Buzzwole would otherwise struggle to directly damage. Earthquake targets Poison-types such as Galarian Slowking and Toxapex, and it lets Buzzwole threaten Heatran and Melmetal without risking a Flame Body burn from the former and without the drawback of the Defense drop against the latter. Alternatively, Toxic gives Buzzwole an amazing utility option that lets it debilitate common Pokemon such as Tornadus-T, Slowbro, Rotom-Wash, and Zapdos, which would otherwise take advantage of it. 104 Attack EVs let Buzzwole OHKO Garchomp with Ice Punch and 2HKO defensive Rotom-Wash with Close Combat. 112 Speed EVs enable Buzzwole to outspeed Adamant Choice Band Tyranitar, which would otherwise 2HKO it with Stone Edge. The rest of Buzzwole's EVs are invested into bulk as to better take hits from the likes of Melmetal and Tyranitar. Rocky Helmet bolsters Buzzwole's role as a defensive Pokemon, punishing non-Protective Pads Urshifu-R, Weavile, and Melmetal for using their multi-hit attacks as well as U-turn from the likes of Landorus-T, Corviknight, and the aforementioned Urshifu-R. Alternatively, Heavy-Duty Boots avoids chip damage from entry hazards, greatly bolstering Buzzwole's longevity and making it less vulnerable to being overwhelmed by Rillaboom, Kartana, and Weavile. Buzzwole fits best on bulky offense and balance teams as a consistent answer to physical threats such as Weavile and Kartana that would otherwise blaze through these teams. Specially defensive teammates such as Landorus-T and Heatran make for solid partners, with the former helping greatly against foes such as Dragapult and Tapu Koko and the latter against Volcarona and Tapu Lele, both of which would otherwise obliterate Buzzwole. Additionally, these Pokemon both provide useful utility; the former boasts access to entry hazard control in both Stealth Rock and Defog alongside U-turn and Toxic, letting it maintain offensive momentum while quickly chipping down foes, while the latter can whittle Pokemon like Clefable and Volcarona with Magma Storm and Toxic. Slowking is another partner that can soft check many special attackers such as Tapu Lele and Volcanion as well as provide Future Sight support to enhance Buzzwole's wallbreaking potential. Special attackers such as Tapu Koko and Dragapult can threaten foes that Buzzwole invites in such as Slowbro, Tornadus-T, and opposing Buzzwole. They can also provide pivot support with Volt Switch and U-turn. Setup sweepers such as Weavile, Garchomp, and Zeraora can capitalize off of Buzzwole beating the likes of Landorus-T and Ferrothorn to find strong opportunities to set up and sweep. Swords Dance Weavile and Garchomp can also beat down shared checks with Buzzwole such as Slowbro, Clefable, and Tapu Fini. In return, Buzzwole can check would-be revenge killers for the two of them such as Choice Scarf Kartana, Rillaboom, and Sand Rush Excadrill. By equipping itself with a Choice Band, Buzzwole becomes an incredibly menacing wallbreaker, with its STAB Close Combat smashing through the likes of Heatran, Melmetal, and Ferrothorn and dealing serious damage to neutral targets like Corviknight and Skarmory. Ice Punch is mandatory to threaten Landorus-T and punish Dragonite, Dragapult, and Tornadus-T on the switch. The last two moveslots can be tailored to whatever Buzzwole's team needs: Leech Life provides Buzzwole with recovery while dealing significant damage to bulky Psychic-types like Slowbro, Slowking, and Mew; Poison Jab tears through Fairy-types like Clefable, Tapu Fini, and Tapu Lele; and Earthquake pressures Poison- and Steel-types like Toxapex, Galarian Slowking, and Flame Body Heatran while being a strong neutral option against the aforementioned Fairy-types. An Adamant nature is recommended to maximize Buzzwole's damage output, while a Jolly nature is an option to outspeed Timid Heatran. Choice Band Buzzwole finds its place on bulky offense teams, where it serves as a potent wallbreaker, smashing open holes to allow its teammates to clean up and vice versa. Future Sight users like Slowbro, Slowking, Galarian Slowking, and Tapu Lele form a strong partnership with Buzzwole, as they apply heavy pressure on Toxapex and Flying- and Fairy-type checks like Zapdos, Tornadus-T, Clefable, and Tapu Fini. Slowbro and Slowking are noteworthy examples, as they can also bring Buzzwole in safely with Teleport, making up for this set's lack of longevity. Other pivots like Landorus-T, Tornadus-T, Corviknight, Zapdos, Tapu Koko, and Rotom-W also synergize well with Buzzwole, as they can provide free entry with U-turn and Volt Switch, setting the stage for Buzzwole to cause havoc. Additionally, the first four can keep entry hazards off the field with Defog; Landorus-T and Tornadus-T provide Knock Off to remove important items like Leftovers from Clefable and Heavy-Duty Boots from Zapdos; and the aforementioned Electric-types have the benefit of pressuring Flying-types like Tornadus-T, Corviknight, and Skarmory. Zeraora is another strong Electric-type partner, as it can utilize its high Speed to solidly answer Dragapult and threaten it with Knock Off, as well as pressuring the aforementioned Flying-types. Bulk Up Zeraora sets serve as a solid late-game wincon that benefits from Buzzwole pressuring Ground-types like Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Hippowdon, while variants that run Toxic can cripple these same Ground-types to aid Buzzwole in overcoming them. Dragapult fires off its Choice Specs-boosted attacks to aid Buzzwole in overwhelming shared checks, like Tapu Fini, and it appreciates Buzzwole handling Tyranitar and Blissey, both of which Dragapult tends to draw in. Dark-type attackers like Weavile and Tyranitar also enjoy partnering with Buzzwole, as they handle Psychic- and Flying-types like Slowbro, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T and team up with Buzzwole to break down defensive cores and overwhelm shared answers like Tapu Fini with repeated attacks. In return, Buzzwole takes on Steel-types that can force these two out like Melmetal and Choice Scarf Kartana. Buzzwole also enjoys pairing with bulky Steel-types like Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Melmetal, as they can check Fairy-types that threaten it, such as Tapu Lele and Clefable; Heatran and Ferrothorn set up hazards to further enable Buzzwole's wallbreaking capabilities, while Melmetal and the aforementioned Ferrothorn spread status, with Melmetal wearing down Zapdos and Volcarona with Toxic and Ferrothorn crippling faster targets like Dragapult with Thunder Wave. Specially defensive Garchomp is another option for a Stealth Rock setter and has the benefit of checking fast Fire-types like Blacephalon and Victini and crippling shared answers like Slowbro with Toxic. Tapu Fini grants support with Misty Terrain, allowing Buzzwole to punish Pokemon like Toxapex and Zapdos with its coverage options without fear of being crippled with status. Bulk Up Buzzwole can act as a decent setup cleaner, leveraging its great bulk and typing against the physically offensive Pokemon it checks to set up and sweep. This role is further helped by Beast Boost's snowball effect making it continuously stronger. However, Buzzwole often has a difficult time consistently setting up due to its poor special bulk, leaving it vulnerable to very common Pokemon such as Dragapult, Heatran, Tornadus-T, and Clefable. Bulk Up sets are also vulnerable to being crippled by status, and they miss out on coverage options, leaving them walled by foes such as Galarian Slowking and Toxapex if Buzzwole lacks Earthquake as well as Clefable and Tapu Fini if it lacks Poison Jab. As a result, it requires very strong support against these threats to properly function. Choice Scarf Buzzwole can act as a late-game cleaner, capitalizing off the boost in Speed given by Choice Scarf to more easily threaten offensive Pokemon. It can surprise Pokemon that would regularly outspeed Buzzwole such as Heatran, Zapdos, and Volcanion and threaten them with its great coverage moves in return. However, Buzzwole's Speed, while strong with Choice Scarf, is not enough to keep up with other Choice Scarf users like Tapu Lele as well as Speed-boosting sweepers such as Dragon Dance Dragapult and Blaziken, which can often spell doom for Buzzwole.
Dragapult (SS competitive strategy): Sporting a near-unresisted STAB combination, highly customizable coverage moves to target its checks, and a Speed tier that outspeeds almost the entirety of the unboosted metagame, Dragapult strikes fear into entire teams as one of the best wallbreakers in the tier. Its Speed allows it to force out the majority of offensive threats, such as Urshifu-R, Garchomp, and unboosted Kartana, as well as cleave through weakened defensive cores, while its access to U-turn facilitates this by letting it pivot out against its checks switching in so they can be overwhelmed in the long run. Its coverage options ensure that it is not limited to using U-turn early-game either—Flamethrower, Thunderbolt, and Hydro Pump can nail common checks super effectively, such as Ferrothorn, Melmetal, Tapu Fini, Toxapex, Landorus-T, and Heatran. Moreover, teams that overprepare for its special sets can find themselves swept by the relatively uncommon but immensely dangerous Dragon Dance sets that greatly punish more passive checks, namely Blissey and Gastrodon. Its Ghost / Dragon typing also gives it numerous entry points in a game, as it can leverage its myriad of resistances to soak up otherwise dangerous attacks in a pinch, such as Surging Strikes from Urshifu-R and Steam Eruption and Flamethrower from Volcanion. So despite Dragapult's susceptibility to passive damage that can limit its longevity as an offensive pivot, make no mistake: the Galarian dragon will put teams to the sword like no other Pokemon in SS OU. By using Choice Specs to boost its Special Attack, Dragapult can take full advantage of its incredible special movepool that can hit the entire metagame at least neutrally. Its STAB Draco Meteor gives it an incredibly powerful option to take out certain Pokemon in one hit if needed before switching out, such as specially defensive Garchomp and Weavile. Shadow Ball is a reliable and spammable Ghost-type STAB move that takes advantage of the dearth of bulky Dark- and Normal-types in the tier save specially defensive Tyranitar and Blissey. Dragapult has a variety of coverage moves that can be used according to the specific needs of its team. Flamethrower destroys Steel-types such as Ferrothorn, Melmetal, and Corviknight, while Thunderbolt is a great midground option that hits both bulky Water- and Flying-types such as Toxapex, Tapu Fini, Corviknight, and Assault Vest Tornadus-T. Finally, Hydro Pump is a viable coverage move that washes away specially defensive Heatran, Hippowdon, and Landorus-T, with the extra power over Surf being important in securing the 2HKO on Heatran and Hippowdon. U-turn allows Dragapult to pivot out against its checks with the bonus of inflicting super effective damage on Dark-types such as Weavile and Tyranitar. Infiltrator is the preferred ability for Dragapult to let it ignore Substitute and Light Screen, allowing it to greatly pressure offensive teams. A Timid nature is preferred, as it lets Dragapult outspeed threats such as Tapu Koko and Jolly Weavile, though a Modest nature can also be used to push through its already shaky checks more easily. Dragapult's ability to U-turn out against its checks makes it a fantastic offensive partner for Pokemon that can break through them or wear down shared checks. Urshifu-R can threaten Heatran, Melmetal, Landorus-T, Tyranitar, Blissey, Hippowdon, and Gastrodon while being an offensive check to Weavile. Kartana destroys Clefable, Tapu Fini, Tyranitar, Blissey, and the aforementioned Ground-types while providing Knock Off support against the likes of Corviknight, Assault Vest Tornadus-T, Heatran, and Melmetal. Choice Band Tyranitar can weaken or take out almost all of the aforementioned checks, such as Clefable, Blissey, opposing Tyranitar, Heatran, Ferrothorn, and Landorus-T. Meanwhile, Dragapult can leverage its STAB Draco Meteor and Shadow Ball to threaten its partners' checks in return, such as Slowbro for Urshifu-R, Zapdos for Kartana, and Buzzwole for Tyranitar. Tapu Lele is also a great partner, as it can help Dragapult overwhelm common checks such as Melmetal, Ferrothorn, Gastrodon, and Hippowdon. As for more defensive partners, Heatran is a wonderful teammate with its ability to trap and remove Toxapex, Clefable, and Blissey as well as its flexibility to either check Choice Scarf Blacephalon and Tapu Lele with a specially defensive set or greatly annoy Weavile, Dragapult's greatest offensive check, with a physically defensive set utilizing Flame Body. It also appreciates U-turn support from Dragapult to either set up Stealth Rock or spread status with Toxic. Melmetal is a more offensively-inclined Steel-type partner that can check Fairy-types such as Tapu Fini, Clefable, and Choice Scarf Tapu Lele while being a good short-term stopgap to Weavile. In return, Dragapult threatens physically defensive Pokemon such as Slowbro, Buzzwole, and Zapdos for Melmetal. Slowbro can switch into some of Dragapult's checks such as Melmetal and Landorus-Therian while being able to safely bring Dragapult onto the field with its slow Teleport. It is also a good check against rain teams, which take advantage of weather to outspeed and threaten Dragapult with Swift Swim Pokemon. Corviknight also provides Dragapult with slow pivoting while checking Dark-types such as Choice Band Tyranitar, Weavile, and Bisharp with Body Press and Tapu Lele with Iron Head. Dragon Dance enables Dragapult to get the most out of its superior Attack stat while also boosting its already tremendous Speed to ridiculous heights, foiling would-be revenge killers like Choice Scarf variants of Kartana and Tapu Lele. Dragapult can find free opportunities to use Dragon Dance by taking advantage of Pokemon Choice locked into an unfortunate move, such as Choice Band Urshifu-R locked into Close Combat, as well as using its offensive presence to scare out Pokemon like Slowbro and Ferrothorn. Dragon Darts is a high-powered STAB option that shreds neutral targets like Tornadus-T, Urshifu-S, and Blissey. Phantom Force is Dragapult's other STAB attack, hitting Fairy-types like Tapu Fini and Tapu Lele and overall being much harder to switch into due to the lack of common resistances to Ghost, and even less that can handle Dragon Darts. Life Orb-boosted Fire Blast allows Dragapult to OHKO Ferrothorn and 2HKO specially defensive Corviknight and Melmetal, while Flamethrower trades some of the raw power of Fire Blast for extra consistency. Dragon Fang can be used over Life Orb to avoid the recoil damage from Dragapult, allowing it to still sweep after being significantly chipped down, at the cost of having a comparatively weaker Phantom Force and Fire Blast. Clear Body is chosen to allow Dragapult to ignore Intimidate as well as the rare Sticky Web. A Lonely nature is chosen to maximize Dragapult's damage output on both sides of the spectrum and because, after a Dragon Dance, Dragapult is fast enough to outspeed relevant Choice Scarf users while using a neutral nature. This set is generally used on hyper offense teams, with Dragapult providing a good natural Speed tier to threaten out Pokemon like Choice Specs Blacephalon and Swords Dance Kartana, which would otherwise be incredibly threatening to those structures. In return, these teams can support Dragapult with Aurora Veil from Alolan Ninetales or dual screens from setters like Tapu Koko. Dragapult fears priority users like Choice Band Weavile and Choice Band Rillaboom, which can halt Dragapult's sweep with their strong priority moves, so pairing Dragapult with an answer to them like Scizor or Flame Body Heatran can alleviate the problem. Heatran is an especially good teammate for a few reasons: it can trap and remove checks to Dragapult like Clefable and Toxapex with Magma Storm and Taunt; is a fantastic Stealth Rock setter on hyper offense teams thanks to its ability to threaten the tier's best Defoggers in Corviknight, Zapdos, and Tornadus-T; and is a sturdy check to Tapu Lele, particularly Choice Scarf variants, which greatly threaten hyper offense teams. Swords Dance Garchomp is a good partner on hyper offense teams, as it can switch into and threaten physically defensive Heatran, which can threaten a burn on Dragapult using Phantom Force with Flame Body. Additionally, they can overwhelm shared checks like Tapu Fini, Clefable, and Corviknight. Thunder can be used over Thunderbolt for extra power against specially defensive variants of Toxapex and Corviknight. However, this is not recommended, as risking the chance to miss is usually not worth the extra power, not to mention that such variants typically sacrifice good matchups against Dragapult's offensive partners like Kartana and Tyranitar to take on the Galarian dragon more effectively. Hex can be used over Dragapult's coverage moves if it is paired with status spreaders such as Thunder Wave Clefable and Toxic Heatran, but Dragapult misses not having the immediate offensive coverage quite often, and these status spam strategies can fall completely flat against teams with cleric support. Dragapult can opt to run a Choice Band set to catch teams expecting Choice Specs off guard, as its high base Attack gives it an incredibly strong STAB Dragon Darts to destroy special checks such as Blissey and Tyranitar, but this forces Dragapult to use the unreliable Phantom Force as its Ghost-type STAB move while missing out on the Fire-, Electric-, and Water-type coverage that its special sets have access to.
Dragapult (SV competitive strategy): Dragapult's supportive capabilities provide it a unique role in SV OU as the fastest user of both status moves and U-turn in the tier. Dragon Darts can deal massive damage to special walls like Blissey and Calm Mind users like Latios and Raging Bolt, and its multi-hit property makes it more threatening versus Dragonite. Draco Meteor is an alternative Dragon-type STAB move that allows Dragapult to 2HKO Great Tusk and heavily injure more physically defensive Pokemon like Zapdos, Moltres, and Hydrapple. Hex is used over Shadow Ball to complement Dragapult's ability to spread status, but it also allows Dragapult to punish Gliscor attempting to absorb status for its team, and unboosted Hex is still strong enough to 2HKO both Gholdengo and Pecharunt. Will-O-Wisp can be used to burn physical attackers like Zamazenta, Dragonite, Kingambit, and Ogerpon-W. Thunder Wave, on the other hand, can paralyze fast Pokemon like Darkrai, Iron Moth, and Tornadus-T for Dragapult's teammates to take advantage of. Lastly Dragapult has the fastest U-turn in the tier, which allows it to quickly pivot and keep momentum for its teammates while also hitting Dark-types like Tyranitar and Ting-Lu. Depending on the choice of moves taken, the EVs should be set to either 4 Attack and a Naive nature for Dragon Darts or 4 Special Defense and a Timid nature for Draco Meteor. Infiltrator is the preferred ability, as it allows Dragapult to both hit and cripple foes regardless of if they are behind a Substitute, like Kyurem, or screens, like Galarian Moltres. For Terastallization options, Tera Ghost allows Dragapult to boost Hex to scary levels of damage, as it cleanly 2HKOes specially defensive Gliscor, OHKOes Ceruledge after Stealth Rock damage, and 2HKOes a statused Iron Defense Zamazenta. Tera Fairy, on the other hand, lets it withstand Dark-type moves, most commonly Kingambit's Kowtow Cleave and Zamazenta's Crunch, and also gives it an immunity to Dragon-type moves from threats like Kyurem, Dragonite, and Walking Wake, potentially getting off a status move or strong Dragon-type attack in return. Tera Steel keeps the Dragon-type resistance but lets Dragapult take a Moonblast from Iron Valiant and Enamorus while also letting it shrug off Ice-type attacks from Weavile and the aforementioned Kyurem. This set finds itself on balance and bulky balance teams as a support Pokemon, especially on Heavy-Duty Boots-spam structures, supporting its teammates and acting as speed control. Dragapult invites in Pokemon like Tyranitar and Hisuian Samurott, letting it use U-turn to bring in answers like Ogerpon-W to wreak havoc. Dragapult can also U-turn on Ting-Lu, allowing it to bring in Weavile or Kyurem and make progress. Dragapult is a frail Pokemon incapable of taking more than one hit from almost anything in the tier, so having defensive partners able to switch in hard on its threats is much appreciated. Corviknight checks Kingambit and has slow pivoting with U-turn, letting Dragapult get back on the field safely. Galarian Slowking can make Dragapult even harder to switch into with Future Sight, which can be good to bait Dark-types like Kingambit or Hisuian Samurott and threaten them with status. Galarian Slowking can bring Dragapult in with Chilly Reception while checking Fairy-types like Primarina and Iron Valiant. Garganacl has both Salt Cure and Stealth Rock to add on to the passive damage pressure, but it also helps Dragapult by taking on Ghost-type moves from Pecharunt and opposing Dragapult. Entry hazard setters help to stack up chip damage due to the many switches that Dragapult forces. Hisuian Samurott in particular has Knock Off to remove Leftovers from Ting-Lu and Heavy-Duty Boots from Great Tusk, allowing Will-O-Wisp's damage to not go unnoticed. Ting-Lu also has hazards, walls Deoxys-S, Gholdengo, and Darkrai, and can chip down switch-ins like Hisuian Samurott and Gliscor to help Dragapult sweep; Dragapult has natural synergy as the spinblocker of the team. Offensive Pokemon also like Will-O-Wisp support, as setup sweepers like Kingambit benefit from Great Tusk and Zamazenta being burned, Kyurem benefits from Zamazenta being crippled, and Gholdengo can turn the tables against Ting-Lu thanks to reduced Earthquake damage. Packing Thunder Wave can mean the world for slower wallbreakers like Ogerpon-W, Kyurem, and Hoopa-U. Ogerpon-W can wipe problem matchups like Darkrai and Tornadus-T, Kyurem can demolish Ting-Lu and can now outspeed a paralyzed Iron Valiant, and Hoopa-U's coverage becomes nightmarish once fast U-turn users like Cinderace and opposing Dragapult can no longer outspeed it Dragapult lacks instantaneous wallbreaking power against defensive Pokemon, relying on status and Hex for damage. Garganacl is therefore Dragapult's biggest counter, as it takes pitiful damage from any of its moves. Therefore, Pokemon such as Gliscor, Clefable, and Great Tusk that can switch in and threaten out Garganacl are great partners, with the former two being able to mitigate its Salt Cure damage and the latter being able to get up Stealth Rock in its face. Bulky Fairy-types like Clefable and Primarina can take hits and eliminate Dragapult with Moonblast, so pairing it with strong wallbreakers like Ogerpon-W and Gholdengo can help versus these foes. Zamazenta is an amazing partner, since it can hit Garganacl, Heatran, and Ting-Lu with Close Combat while also providing backup speed control for Dark-type threats like Weavile and Darkrai. Pairing Dragapult with other status spreaders, like Gliscor, Moltres, and Galarian Slowking, can boost Hex's damage output in the long run. Alomomola is another status spreader that can support Dragapult with Wish, allowing Dragapult to stay healthy in longer games where its defensive qualities may be required. Equipped with Choice Specs, Dragapult combines its great Speed and lethal STAB combination with the high Base Power of Draco Meteor and the disruptive nature of Shadow Ball's Special Defense drops to become one of OU's premier wallbreakers. Flamethrower targets Kingambit, the only OU Pokemon that resists both of Dragapult's STAB moves, and OHKOes the likes of Scizor and offensive Iron Treads. Fire Blast may be used instead to ensure OHKOs against offensive Kingambit and bulky Rillaboom while further pressuring Corviknight and bulky variants of Iron Treads at the cost of accuracy. U-turn allows Dragapult to safely pivot on predicted switches, easing the need of prediction while chipping at the likes of Ting-Lu and Blissey in the process. A Timid nature allows Dragapult to get the jump on Zamazenta, Darkrai, and +1 Adamant Dragonite, as well as Speed tie with opposing Dragapult; a Modest nature may be considered to enhance Dragapult's wallbreaking power, with Draco Meteor netting OHKOs against the likes of Tornadus-T and Ogerpon-W. Infiltrator proves effective against Substitute users such as Kyurem and Iron Moth, both of which Dragapult threatens to KO with Draco Meteor, as well as against Aurora Veil and dual screens teams, which often use Pokemon like Darkrai and offensive Gliscor which can't stand Dragapult's attacks. Clear Body may also be used as a countermeasure against Pecharunt's Parting Shot, as well as Sticky Web teams, which often feature Pokemon such as Gholdengo and Great Tusk that are greatly threatened by Dragapult. Tera Ghost boosts Dragapult's Shadow Ball, netting 2HKOs against Clefable and Assault Vest Tornadus-T after Stealth Rock, while also removing its weaknesses to attacks such as Iron Valiant and Enamorus's Moonblast and Weavile's Ice Shard. Similarly, Tera Dragon boosts Dragapult's Draco Meteor, allowing it to 2HKO Garganacl and heavily chip at Ting-Lu, while removing its weaknesses to Kingambit's Sucker Punch, Darkrai's Dark Pulse, and Ceruledge's Shadow Sneak. Choice Specs Dragapult often finds itself on bulky offense and offense teams where its wallbreaking prowess and speed control shine. Ogerpon-W appreciates Dragapult's ability to scare Dragon-types such as Raging Bolt, Kyurem, and Hydrapple; in turn, it aids Dragapult against specially defensive walls such as Ting-Lu, Blissey, and Assault Vest Alomomola and Primarina, with both being able to bring each other safely on the field with U-turn. Similarly, Kingambit appreciates Dragapult pressuring physical walls such as Dondozo, Great Tusk, and Zamazenta, while it assists Dragapult against opposing Ghost-types such as Gholdengo and Pecharunt when Dragapult is locked into an undesirable move and against Tera Fairy Garganacl, which can take on both of Dragapult's STAB moves. Great Tusk, Landorus-T, and Corviknight aid against Kingambit, which may use a Choice-locked Dragapult as an opportunity to set up, and they can either remove or prevent entry hazards from being set up and weakening Dragapult, thanks to Rapid Spin, Taunt, and Defog, respectively. Furthermore, Great Tusk and Landorus-T provide Stealth Rock support to chip foes such as Assault Vest Tornadus-T and Enamorus to put them in range of Dragapult's attacks, while Landorus-T and Corviknight can act as pivots with U-turn to bring Dragapult safely on the field. Galarian Slowking and Iron Crown can deal with Fairy-types such as Clefable and Galarian Weezing looking to exploit Dragapult being locked into Draco Meteor. Iron Valiant aids Dragapult against Dark-types such as Hisuian Samurott, Ting-Lu, and Kingambit, as well as weakening shared checks such as Primarina and Assault Vest Tornadus-T. With Booster Energy, Iron Valiant is also able to provide extra speed control alongside Dragapult, particularly outpacing foes faster than Dragapult such as Deoxys-S, Choice Scarf Gholdengo, and +1 Kyurem. Dragapult acts as a great offensive pivot for bulky offense and balance teams that rely on maintaining momentum and immediate power for their progress making. Its amazing Speed tier, the second fastest relevant Pokemon behind only Deoxys-S, makes it one of the best users of Choice Band, hitting foes for great neutral damage thanks to its hard-to-resist STAB moves. Tera Blast Ghost lets it make use of a reliable and powerful physical Ghost-type move, 2HKOing otherwise problematic Steel- and Fairy-types such as Clefable and Corviknight after Stealth Rock Damage, and to create win-win scenarios thanks to the pivoting effect of its strong U-turn forcing progress even against bulkier cores and punishing Dark-types such as Kingambit and Ting-Lu with heavy chip damage, especially if Spikes are up. Sucker Punch lets it revenge kill offensive threats like Deoxys-S and opposing Dragapult while being handy to pick off weakened boosted foes like Kyurem and Dragonite. Will-O-Wisp permanently neutralizes a common switch-in in Kingambit and lets it emergency check foes like IronPress Zamazenta and Terastallized Dragonite. Phantom Force gives it a decent STAB move without relying too much on Terastallization. Clear Body allows Dragapult to ignore Landorus-T's Intimidate and match up better against Sticky Web teams, though Infiltrator is still a valid alternative to threaten dual screens hyper offense teams and Substitute users like Iron Moth, Primarina, and Enamorus. Tera Dragon over Tera Ghost with Phantom Force over Tera Blast is a notable option to rely less on Terastallization in exchange for a worse Ghost-type move; this takes advantage of Dragon Darts's power and reliability to reach feats such as 2HKOing Ting-Lu after Stealth Rock while also shedding its Dark weakness from the likes of Kingambit and Darkrai. Dragapult has great synergy with bulky VoltTurn cores, which allow Dragapult to easily get on and off the field and repeatedly scare out offensive threats such as Iron Moth, Iron Crown, Gholdengo, and Darkrai. Landorus-T and Hisuian Samurott are pivots that pair well with Dragapult, with the former switching well into Kingambit, Cinderace, and Zamazenta trying to revenge kill Dragapult while denying hazards from Pokemon such as Skarmory, Glimmora, Garganacl, and opposing Landorus-T with Taunt, and the latter's Knock Off variants removing Heavy-Duty Boots off of physical walls Dragapult might struggle with like Alomomola and Dondozo. They, alongside the likes of Garganacl, Clefable, and Gliscor, also provide entry hazards, putting foes like Ogerpon, Darkrai, opposing Hisuian Samurott, and Iron Valiant in range of an OHKO and Skarmory, Corviknight, offensive Great Tusk, and Alomomola in range of a 2HKO; Garganacl in particular is noteworthy for its ability to deal effectively with opposing Dragapult, as well as absorbing status that would otherwise severely limit Dragapult's effectiveness like burn from Alomomola, paralysis from Clefable, and Toxic from Gliscor. Rapid Spin support from the likes of Great Tusk, which also deals with Kingambit, or Magic Bounce support from Hatterene, which has a great matchup into Ting-Lu and Zamazenta variants lacking Heavy Slam and can absorb status, also benefits Dragapult. Corviknight is another good pivot, providing a Kingambit check for bulkier structures and reliably removing hazards against teams without Gholdengo with Defog. Finally, Future Sight from Iron Crown, Galarian Slowking, or the previously mentioned Hatterene helps overwhelm defensive cores that rely on different Pokemon to take on physical and special attacks like Galarian Slowking + Alomomola or Corviknight, Blissey \+ Dondozo, and Iron Crown + Landorus-T. Iron Crown brings to the table fast pivoting and a strong offensive profile to better deal with Clefable while not letting Kingambit or Heatran switch in for free. In contrast, Galarian Slowking has slow pivoting and great longevity thanks to Regenerator. Similarly, offensive overlap with threats like Dragonite, Zamazenta, and Hisuian Samurott can be very effective at muscling past shared checks like Skarmory, Clefable, Zamazenta, Dondozo, and Alomomola with repeated pressure. Mixed offensive Dragapult uses its unique STAB combination and mixed attacking power to break through many common cores while still acting as great speed control for teams due to naturally outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame apart from Deoxys-S. Life Orb gives Dragapult's Shadow Ball an extremely high chance to 2HKO defensive Galarian Slowking. Dragon Darts can 2HKO specially defensive Pokemon such as Blissey and Clodsire. Draco Meteor does large amounts of damage to Pokemon like Zamazenta, Great Tusk, and Garganacl that could otherwise stomach Dragapult's attacks; for example, it OHKOes Great Tusk. Fire Blast targets Steel-types such as Kingambit, Iron Treads, Corviknight, and Tinkaton that might otherwise be able to take Dragapult's STAB attacks. Will-O-Wisp can cripple Pokemon like Ting-Lu and Kingambit that might switch into Dragapult's attacks easily; it also defensively helps Dragapult's teammates against Pokemon such as Ogerpon-W. Clear Body can allow Dragapult to completely ignore Sticky Web, Intimidate from Landorus-T, and Parting Shot from Pecharunt, whereas Infiltrator helps Dragapult against dual screens while allowing it to hit Substitute Iron Moth and Enamorus. Tera Dragon boosts the power of both Dragon Darts and Draco Meteor, allowing Dragapult to OHKO Multiscale Dragonite with Dragon Darts as well as OHKO Ogerpon-W and 2HKO Iron Defense Zamazenta with Draco Meteor. It also sheds Dragapult of its Dark weakness, allowing it to take unboosted Kingambit's Sucker Punch from full HP. Mixed offensive Dragapult fits best on hyper offense and offense teams, which appreciate its high Speed and wallbreaking prowess. Dark-types such as Kingambit and Darkrai appreciate Dragapult's power while also being able to take on Pokemon that might be able to revenge kill Dragapult like Choice Scarf Gholdengo and opposing Kingambit. Gholdengo and Kingambit can help against Clefable, Tera Fairy Garganacl, and Toxapex, which can stomach Dragapult's attacks, and in return, they appreciate Dragapult's ability to threaten the likes of Cinderace and Great Tusk. Gholdengo in particular can also stomach Moonblast from Enamorus and Iron Valiant that try to revenge kill Dragapult. Entry hazard setters such as Ting-Lu, Glimmora, and Landorus-T are great partners for Dragapult, as the damage from hazards can chip common answers into KO range of its attacks. Dragapult struggles immensely with entry hazards, as they further cut into its limited longevity; as a result, hazard removal options like Iron Treads, Great Tusk, and Glimmora pair nicely with it, allowing it to get in more often in order to wallbreak. Pokemon that can take on Ting-Lu such as Ogerpon-W and Zamazenta are incredibly valuable for Dragapult, as Ting-Lu otherwise hard walls this set. Ogerpon-W can also help take on Assault Vest Alomomola, Primarina, and Garganacl, while Dragapult in return can help take on Dragonite, Raging Bolt, Kyurem, and Pecharunt, which trouble Ogerpon-W. Pokemon such as Hisuian Samurott and non-Dazzling Gleam Iron Moth that can struggle with Dragon-types like Raging Bolt and Dragonite immensely appreciate Dragapult threatening them. Iron Valiant is an excellent partner for Dragapult, as it can not only weaken Ting-Lu but can also take on Kingambit, Hisuian Samurott, and Weavile, which may try to revenge kill Dragapult with their priority moves. In return, Dragapult can take on Pokemon such as Galarian Slowking, Gholdengo, and Moltres that might wall Iron Valiant.
Scrafty (XY competitive strategy): Scrafty is a threatening Dragon Dance sweeper in RU. It sets up easily against bulkier teams thanks to its decent 65 / 115 / 115 bulk and great abilities; Shed Skin and Intimidate help Scrafty set up, whereas Moxie assists in sweeping. Scrafty's Dark / Fighting typing makes it a good answer to Dark-types such as Sneasel and Drapion and grants it great STAB options in High Jump Kick, Knock Off, and Drain Punch. Scrafty also possesses useful coverage options in Iron Head and Zen Headbutt, making it an overall versatile setup sweeper. Sadly, Scrafty requires a Dragon Dance or Life Orb boosts to thoroughly sweep due to its unimpressive base 90 Attack. It also has an uncomfortable weakness to Fighting-type moves, which is further worsened by the presence of the many Fighting-types in RU such as Medicham, Virizion, Hitmonlee, and Sawk, which are all faster than an unboosted Scrafty. Scrafty is also held back by its underwhelming base 58 Speed, meaning it fails to outspeed every relevant Choice Scarf user in the tier even after a Dragon Dance boost. Dragon Dance raises Scrafty's Attack and Speed by 1 stage, making it a threatening sweeper if left unchecked. High Jump Kick is the preferred STAB move due to its great 130 Base Power. Knock Off hits Psychic- and Ghost-types that might try to switch into High Jump Kick such as Sigilyph and Hoopa. Iron Head lets Scrafty hit Fairy-types such as Diancie and Granbull super effectively, which would otherwise switch into its STAB moves easily. Rest works very well in conjunction with Shed Skin, giving Scrafty the opportunity to fully recover its HP in one turn. Drain Punch provides Scrafty with a secondary Fighting-type STAB move that is safer than High Jump Kick due to its perfect accuracy and lack of recoil and helps preserve Scrafty's longevity by mitigating Life Orb recoil. A Jolly nature with maximum Attack and Speed EVs makes Scrafty as fast and strong as possible while outspeeding Virizion after a boost. Life Orb increases Scrafty's overall power, making it more threatening prior to setting up. Do note Life Orb compromises its overall longevity unless it opts to run Rest or Drain Punch. Leftovers lets Scrafty set up on defensive Pokemon more easily, although the difference in power compared to Life Orb is noticeable. For example, Life Orb Scrafty can OHKO Diancie with High Jump Kick, while Scrafty holding Leftovers fails to do so. It should be noted that if Leftovers is chosen, 8 HP EVs should be invested in order to maximize recovery. Chople Berry lets Scrafty survive Virizion's Close Combat and Emboar's Superpower as well as avoiding the 2HKO from Life Orb Hitmonlee's Mach Punch, giving Scrafty the opportunity to attack or set up another Dragon Dance. Shed Skin mitigates Scrafty's worry about status conditions, letting it set up on passive Pokemon such as Registeel and Alomomola more easily. Moxie increases Scrafty's Attack stat after it knocks out a Pokemon, making it even more threatening after achieving a KO. Intimidate lets Scrafty set up on some physical attackers upon switching in, although the benefits that Shed Skin and Moxie provide are much more useful. Scrafty's item and coverage move of choice can be pretty customizable depending on the coverage its partners provide. Scrafty should attempt to set up once checks and faster attackers have been weakened or KOed. However, Knock Off can be used early-game to generally cripple the opponent's Pokemon, making late-game cleaning easier. Scrafty should attempt to set up on passive Pokemon such as Registeel and Alomomola and offensive Pokemon that can't break past it such as slow Psychic-types such as Slowking and Dark-types such as Sneasel, Spiritomb, and Drapion. If against a Fairy-type, Scrafty should not stay to use Iron Head unless it is sure to KO. If it lacks Shed Skin, Scrafty should be wary of status ailments, which would cripple its sweeping potential. High Jump Kick should not be used recklessly if the opponent has a Ghost-type Pokemon such as Hoopa or Jellicent. Entry hazards such as Stealth Rock from Diancie and Uxie and Spikes from Garbodor and Mega Glalie are very useful, as they weaken Scrafty's checks and counters, making them easier to handle later in the match. Psychic-types like Delphox, Meloetta, and Sigilyph can wear down Fighting- and Poison-types for Scrafty. In return, Scrafty can dissuade Dark-types from switching in. Pokemon that can wear down Fairy-types such as Escavalier and Venusaur allow Scrafty to break past the opposing team more easily. Partners that can deal with Flying-types for Scrafty such as Magneton, Choice Band Rhyperior, and Rotom are greatly appreciated. Wallbreakers to pave the way for Scrafty to sweep late-game are quite useful. Examples include Hoopa, Choice Specs Meloetta, and Choice Band Escavalier. Zen Headbutt allows Scrafty to better deal with bulky Fighting- and Poison-types like Poliwrath and Venusaur. Head Smash can be an option to surprise Flying-types like Golbat, Fletchinder, and Togetic, although its imperfect accuracy and 50% recoil can prove troublesome. Iron Tail can be an option over Iron Head if power is desired, as a Life Orb-boosted Iron Tail OHKOes Diancie, but just like with Head Smash its imperfect accuracy can be annoying. Rest + Chesto Berry can be used so that Scrafty can opt for Moxie or Intimidate over Shed Skin. Bulk Up can be used as a more defensive means of setting up, but the lack of Speed boosts means that Scrafty will have a harder time dealing with more offensive threats, aside from the fact that Malamar performs this role much better. An Adamant nature can be used for more power, but Scrafty then fails to outspeed maximum investment base 100 Speed Pokemon after a Dragon Dance boost.
Scrafty (SM competitive strategy): Scrafty is a great setup sweeper due to the combination of its unique typing, great bulk, and amazing abilities. Said unique typing gives Scrafty great STAB moves, including Knock Off, High Jump Kick, and Drain Punch, which let it handle common Dark-, Ghost-, and Psychic-types such as Incineroar, Rotom, and Slowking. Thanks to its great bulk, Scrafty has an easy time setting up on passive Pokemon and can make teams that depend on common defensive cores, like Steelix \+ Slowking and Vaporeon \+ Silvally-Steel, really struggle. The ability Shed Skin gives Scrafty a way to also set up on Pokemon like Rotom and Vaporeon, which rely on spreading status conditions with moves like Will-O-Wisp and Toxic. However, Scrafty has a really poor Speed tier, making it easy to revenge kill with common Choice Scarf users like Passimian and other fast Pokemon like Whimsicott and Sceptile even after a Dragon Dance boost. It's also extremely susceptible to Fairy-types, like Whimsicott, Aromatisse, and Comfey, and Pokemon that run Fairy-type coverage moves, such as Mismagius and Delphox. Bulk Up provides Scrafty with a way to boost its Attack and Defense stats by one stage, making it a threatening setup sweeper. Knock Off is the main STAB move and allows Scrafty to cripple counters, such as Whimsicott, Passimian and Golbat, by removing their items while also doing decent damage. Having Drain Punch as Scrafty's secondary STAB move gives it a form of recovery while also decently damaging bulky Stealth Rock users like Steelix and Rhydon and smacking Dark-types such as Incineroar and Sneasel. Rest gives Scrafty an additional form of recovery, and the sleep penalty can be cured by Shed Skin. The investment in HP and Special Defense paired with a Careful nature maximizes Scrafty's special bulk while taking minimal damage from entry hazards. Leftovers gives Scrafty a form of passive recovery throughout the match. Shed Skin is the ability of choice because it provides it a great way to absorb and then cure status like sleep induced by Rest. Scrafty should generally use its Shed Skin and great bulk to switch into passive Pokemon, like Palossand, Vaporeon and Ferroseed, and status-inducing moves. Thanks to its ability, Scrafty can be used as a great status absorber for teams that struggle against Pokemon like Slowking and Rotom. While it's in play, Scrafty should use Knock Off to cripple its checks and counters like Passimian and Whimsicott. Once these checks are weakened, it will have an easier time setting up and pressuring defensive teams. Since it's 4x weak to Fairy, Scrafty should be cautious of Pokemon like Mismagius and Delphox, which can carry Dazzling Gleam, and Fairy-types like Mega Audino and Comfey. Due to Scrafty's lack of immediate power, Pokemon that provide entry hazard support, such as Garbodor, Ferroseed, Steelix, and Rhydon, make great partners and give Scrafty an easier way to pressure its checks and counters. Garbodor, Ferroseed, and Steelix can also deal with Fairy-type Pokemon such as Whimsicott and Comfey, while Rhydon and Steelix can handle Flying-type Pokemon like Braviary and Scyther. Silvally-Steel also makes a great partner because it can check most Fairy-type Pokemon and creates setup opportunities with Parting Shot. Scrafty appreciates Psychic-type Pokemon such as Sigilyph, Slowking and Delphox because they deal with threatening Fighting- and Poison-types like Passimian, Garbodor, and Weezing. Pokemon like Passimian, Guzzlord, and Roseli Berry Druddigon can run super effective coverage to lure in and KO Fairy-type Pokemon, helping Scrafty remove these Pokemon from the game. Dragon Dance is Scrafty's main way of setting up, boosting its Attack and Speed stats by one stage. High Jump Kick is the strongest STAB move that Scrafty can use, causing decent damage to most of its checks, including Passimian and Whimsicott. Knock Off is Scrafty's most spammable STAB move and can hit Ghost- and Psychic-types like Decidueye, Mismagius, and Delphox for super effective damage. It also has the ability to remove items and do great damage to a good part of the metagame. Removing items can be very helpful, as it allows Scrafty to cripple Comfey and Golbat. Drain Punch gives Scrafty a more reliable Fighting-type attack that can also provide recovery and increase its longevity. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs with a Jolly nature maximize Scrafty's offensive presence while letting it outspeed base 110 Speed Pokemon after one Dragon Dance boost. Chople Berry allows Scrafty to survive moves like Passimian's Close Combat at full HP. Shed Skin gives Scrafty a chance to cure any status condition that could otherwise cripple it. You should use Knock Off and High Jump Kick early-game to weaken Scrafty's checks and counters. Knock Off should be used to remove items from checks like Comfey and Golbat, while High Jump Kick should be used to weaken checks such as Passimian and Whimsicott. However, High Jump Kick should not be used recklessly, as a Ghost-type like Decidueye, Rotom, or Palossand could switch in. Once the majority of Scrafty's check and counters are weakened, try to set up on Pokemon that can't heavily damage it like Steelix, Cryogonal, and Palossand. However, if Scrafty isn't using Shed Skin, it should worry about status conditions from Scald and Toxic users like Slowking and Blastoise. If it's paired with Healing Wish support, you can use Scrafty early-game to break defensive cores and weaken the opposing team, then switch it out to be used again if needed. If Scrafty is holding a Chople Berry, it has an easier time setting up even if the opponent has a Fighting-type Pokemon such as Passimian. If you have one Dragon Dance up while facing a Choice Scarf Passimian, set up again because you can outspeed the following turn and do a lot of damage. Scrafty can use Psychium Z alongside Zen Headbutt on Dragon Dance sets to lure in and KO Poison-types like Weezing, Garbodor, and Golbat. However, Chople Berry is usually preferred so that Passimian cannot revenge kill Scrafty as easily.
Scrafty (SS competitive strategy): Scrafty is a unique Pokemon that provides multiple valuable qualities to its team: Knock Off can remove items to soften up opposing teams early-game, Shed Skin makes it one of the best status absorbers in the tier, Bulk Up and Rest let it act as a late-game sweeper, and its great Special Defense and few weaknesses let it stand up to threatening wallbreakers such as Starmie and Alolan Exeggutor. However, Scrafty is completely countered by defensive Sylveon, which makes it deadweight in that fairly common matchup. Additionally, it can be a sitting duck for the tier's many threatening Fighting-types and requires a lot of team support to make up for the switch-in opportunities it often gives Passimian and Toxicroak. It also struggles with other defensive staples such as Mantine and Vileplume and is generally slow to make progress. Bulk Up makes Scrafty quite bulky, letting it avoid the 2HKO from defensive Talonflame's Brave Bird after just one boost. Drain Punch has no drawbacks unlike other options like Close Combat and helps it stay healthy to check threats like Drapion, Guzzlord, and Snorlax. Rest restores Scrafty's HP to full and has good synergy with Shed Skin; this can prevent opposing wallbreakers from safely entering the field to threaten Scrafty on an anticipated use of Rest. 92 Speed EVs let Scrafty outspeed Jolly Copperajah and Glastrier and help it take on Vaporeon. Throat Chop is a niche option to defeat defensive Hyper Voice Sylveon; however, Scrafty sacrifices tons of utility by dropping Knock Off, and many Sylveons run Moonblast to bypass this. A Dragon Dance set with Knock Off, Close Combat, and Iron Head seems appealing at first glance, but Scrafty's low speed leaves it outsped by Talonflame, Salazzle, and every Choice Scarf user even after a boost; faster Choice Scarf users like Heliolisk can outspeed it even after two Speed boosts.
Scrafty (SV competitive strategy): Thanks to its solid mixed bulk, many resistances, and great abilities, Scrafty is a potent setup sweeper. Both Bulk Up and Dragon Dance sets are major setup threats because of Scrafty's access to STAB Knock Off, Close Combat, and Drain Punch for great overall power, utility, and sustainability. Staple Pokemon like Alolan Muk and Amoonguss can be setup fodder for Scrafty, letting it prey on common defensive cores. Bulk Up turns Scrafty into a bulky booster that can overwhelm defensive cores relying on Swampert and Bronzong. Dragon Dance sets can snowball out of control and use Scrafty's great bulk to secure multiple boosts. Scrafty is an especially good user of Terastallization, as it's bulky and enabled by flipping its few major weaknesses into resistances. Shed Skin is a fantastic ability to make status users like Vaporeon and Galarian Slowbro insecure checks to Scrafty, and Scrafty even has other good abilities like Intimidate and Moxie to facilitate its sweeping. However, Scrafty has major vulnerabilities to Fairy-types like Diancie and Scream Tail and Fighting-type revenge killers like Paldean Tauros-W and Paldean Tauros-F, so it's often pressured to exhaust Terastallization. Dragon Dance sets can struggle if they don't have the opportunity to acquire multiple boosts, and Bulk Up sets can be overwhelmed by strong special attackers like Toxtricity and Sylveon. Scrafty's low Speed trips it up by making it vulnerable to Encore and Taunt, and its average Attack makes it even more prone to Trick and phazing. Drain Punch's healing makes Scrafty less reliant on Rest. Knock Off is especially useful to soften up Gligar and punish Scrafty's checks, including Scyther, Diancie, and Altaria. Throat Chop stops Sylveon from using Hyper Voice and prevents Bronzong from using Psychic Noise if Scrafty has Terastallized into a Poison-type. Rest is less passive on Scrafty than other Pokemon thanks to Shed Skin's potential to wake up Scrafty early, and it's helpful both as a recovery move and immediate method to heal status. The EV spread allows Scrafty to outpace foes like Vaporeon and Sylveon. Shed Skin has good synergy with Rest and keeps Scrafty healthier against status spreaders like Alolan Muk, Gligar, and Vaporeon. Both Tera Poison and Tera Steel flip Scrafty's problematic 4x Fairy weakness into a resistance, which improves its matchups against Diancie, Sylveon, and Scream Tail. Tera Poison helps Scrafty against Fighting-types like Toxicroak and opposing Scrafty, while Tera Steel is more useful against Alolan Ninetales and Kilowattrel. Scrafty is unlikely to sweep unless Fairy-types like Scream Tail, Florges, and Sylveon have been weakened. Bronzong, Klefki, and Orthworm check Fairy-types for Scrafty, and they can set entry hazards to wear down Diancie and Amoonguss. Ground-types like Flygon, Gastrodon, and Swampert can handle Poison-types like Toxtricity and Toxicroak for Scrafty. Spikes setters like Klekfi, Gligar, and Orthworm are especially good at making sure foes like Amoonguss are softened up for Scrafty, and Scrafty's Knock Off synergizes with them by removing Heavy-Duty Boots. Specially defensive Pokemon like Diancie, Bronzong, and Porygon2 are great answers to problematic special attackers like Alolan Ninetales, Kilowattrel, and Chandelure that can pressure Scrafty with their super effective and powerful STAB moves, and the former two walls can set up hazards for Scrafty as well. Physical walls like Galarian Slowbro, Vaporeon, and Gligar support Scrafty by handling physical attackers like Paldean Tauros-F, Incineroar, and Flamigo. Drain Punch helps keep Scrafty healthy enough to stay out of range of priority users like Basculegion-M and Choice Scarf revenge killers like Flygon. Knock Off can be helpful to soften up checks to Scrafty such as Scream Tail, Gligar, and Sylveon so that Scrafty can more easily sweep past them late-game. Throat Chop lacks Knock Off's general utility and initial additional power, but its effect of disabling sound-based moves helps against foes like Sylveon and Toxtricity. Scrafty can run Encore to navigate around problematic foes like Milotic and Vaporeon, and it can turn passive walls like Avalugg and Amoonguss into setup fodder. Poison Jab is preferred as a coverage move for its synergy with Tera Poison, but Iron Head nails Alolan Ninetales and Diancie. Similarly to Drain Punch, Leftovers helps keep Scrafty out of range of revenge killers like Basculegion-M. However, a Lum Berry is very helpful for non-Shed Skin sets to help against status spreaders like Gligar, Incineroar, and Klefki if Scrafty Terastallizes. Shed Skin makes Scrafty less prone to status spreaders like Incineroar, Gligar, and Alolan Muk, which can also open Scrafty up to use these Pokemon as setup fodder. Intimidate creates windows for Scrafty to set up more easily against physical attackers like Flygon and Swampert. Moxie helps Scrafty to snowball with boosts and punish opponents who eagerly sack Pokemon against it. Tera Poison helps Scrafty match up better against Fairy-types, Fighting-type revenge killers like Paldean Tauros-W, and Body Press users such as Bronzong. Tera Steel shares Tera Poison's offensive and defensive qualities against Fairy-types while giving Scrafty a better defensive typing against Flying-types like Kilowattrel and Psychic-types like Uxie. Scrafty is a good fit for offense and balance teams as a wincon that isn't lacking a defensive backbone. Sets with Shed Skin are especially valuable as status absorbers. Scrafty can take advantage of Alolan Muk, which is appreciated by Psychic-types like Scream Tail, Oricorio-P, and Bronzong. Psychic-type pivots like Munkidori and Uxie are excellent at drawing in Alolan Muk for Scrafty and giving it free entry with their pivot moves. Setup sweepers like Flygon, Scyther, and Diancie can all overwhelm Fairy- and Poison-type walls for Scrafty. In return, Scrafty can beat Steel-types like Bronzong for the three aforementioned Pokemon. Fast Encore users like Scream Tail and Cinccino can lock passive Pokemon like Bronzong and Amoonguss into moves that let Scrafty use them as setup fodder. Alolan Ninetales supports Scrafty with Aurora Veil and Encore to widen its opportunities for setting up. Steel- and Poison-type teammates like Klefki and Toxtricity can handle Fairy-types like Scream Tail and Sylveon. Ice Punch hits Flying- and Dragon-types like Altaria, Gligar, and Flygon very hard, but Scrafty struggles to fit it for this one matchup over its coverage moves for Fairy-types. Tera Ghost is an option for a useful immunity against Fighting-types like Paldean Tauros-W and Body Press users like Bronzong, potentially turning them into setup fodder or giving Scrafty a critical turn where it doesn't have to take any damage when it's weakened.
Regidrago (SS competitive strategy): Dragon Dance Regidrago is a solid late-game sweeper once key roadblocks are removed. Regidrago's average-to-good bulk and Dragon typing lend it many setup opportunities against bulky Water-types such as Milotic and Suicune, but also against passive walls like Registeel. However, even after a boost, Regidrago is slower than every common Choice Scarf user. The Speed raise from Scale Shot can prevent Choice Scarf users from revenge killing Regidrago after setup, but it's inconsistent due to its variability in power. After a Dragon Dance, Thunder Fang 2HKOes even bulky Togekiss. Substitute helps Regidrago set up by blocking Scald burns and Toxic. The passive recovery from Leftovers means Regidrago can use Substitute many more times throughout a battle. An Adamant nature is preferable to ensure the 2HKO on Togekiss with Thunder Fang after a Dragon Dance. Try as it might, Regidrago can't break through Steelix, Galarian Weezing, Diancie, and Stakataka. Luckily, wallbreakers like Starmie and Golurk can pick up the slack and blow past each one with relative ease. Fighting-types such as Guts Heracross, Bewear, and Pangoro can also overwhelm Diancie and Galarian Weezing while breaking Steelix and Stakataka. Crobat, Flygon, and Incineroar can safely switch Regidrago into the battlefield with U-turn. Flygon and Incineroar synergize particularly well with Regidrago, as they can bring it in against bulky Water-types for a setup opportunity. Disguised as Regidrago, Zoroark can lure Galarian Weezing, Sylveon, Steelix, and Doublade with coverage moves in Extrasensory, Sludge Bomb, and Flamethrower. Dragon Dance Regidrago fits well on dual screens hyper offense teams, as it can get multiple boosts with ease thanks to its titanic bulk under dual screens. One notable Pokemon commonly seen on dual screens hyper offense is Cloyster; after a Shell Smash, it can OHKO Galarian Weezing with Hydro Pump and can wear down Steel-types. Other hyper offense staples like Sharpedo and Mimikyu can also help with breaking bulky Steel-types. Choice Band Dragon's Maw-boosted Outrage is a sight to behold, but in a tier infested with Fairy- and Steel-types, Regidrago finds its effectiveness limited. Nevertheless, with good team support, Regidrago is a force to be reckoned with. Scale Shot is decently strong and doesn't lock Regidrago in like Outrage does. The Speed raise also makes it harder to revenge kill with faster threats like Noivern and Starmie. Hammer Arm is Regidrago's best move to hit Diancie as well as Steel-types such as Steelix and Registeel. Thunder Fang is a near-guaranteed 2HKO on max HP Togekiss. Explosion is an alternative over either Outrage or Scale Shot, as it opens the door for Regidrago's teammates by either severely weakening or outright KOing Togekiss, Grimmsnarl, or Galarian Weezing. Crunch is also an option to hit Doublade and 2HKO Metagross and Bronzong but has no other relevant targets. Regidrago can do next to nothing against Sylveon, Galarian Weezing, and Doublade. Toxtricity is noteworthy for dealing with the mentioned Pokemon and weakening Steelix, which repeatedly switches in on Regidrago otherwise. Fighting- and Dark-types like Heracross and Sharpedo can pair with Regidrago to overwhelm shared checks, such as Fairy-types. Regidrago can also lure and severely weaken Fairy-types with Explosion so its Fighting- and Dark-type teammate can clean up afterward. Zoroark can disguise itself as Regidrago with Illusion to lure and surprise Fairy-types with a super effective Sludge Bomb. Pivots like Raikou, Milotic, and Flygon are excellent for safely bringing Regidrago onto the field. Flygon and Fire-types like Entei and Incineroar are grateful for Regidrago breaking bulky Water-types such as Milotic and Gastrodon. Spikes support from Roserade and Klefki helps whittle down sturdy Steel-types like Steelix, Metagross, and Doublade.
Regidrago (SV competitive strategy): Regidrago's access to Dragon Energy paired with its decent Speed and monstrous HP allows it to be a great sweeper late-game while still having utility as a revenge killer mid-game. Regidrago's ability, Dragon's Maw, is amazing, strengthening its already powerful STAB Dragon Energy even further so that it OHKOes threats like Terrakion, Armarouge, and Basculegion-F. While Regidrago has enormous HP and its typing has many useful resistances, aiding it against Pokemon like Volcanion, Raikou, and Armarouge, it can't put either of them to good use, as it needs to conserve its HP to ensure Dragon Energy stays as strong as possible. Additionally, Regidrago's lack of coverage moves forces it to rely on Terastallization to even hit most Fairy-types for good damage. Regidrago is quite slow for a Choice Scarf user, too, underspeeding the majority of Choice Scarf foes such as Jirachi, Krookodile, Galarian Zapdos, and Gengar. Regidrago is a threatening late-game sweeper, with its powerful Dragon Energy cleanly OHKOing many offensive foes such as Krookodile, Galarian Zapdos, and Feraligatr. However, Dragon Energy can be unreliable at times due to its insistence on Regidrago maintaining high HP. Draco Meteor provides a consistently strong attack regardless of Regidrago's current HP, though it's not as spammable as Dragon Energy due to its Special Attack-dropping effect. Earth Power complements Regidrago's Dragon-type STAB moves nicely, hitting Steel-types like Jirachi, Magnezone, and Empoleon super effectively. Similarly, Tera Blast Steel targets Fairy-types such as Gardevoir and Mimikyu, which Regidrago immensely struggles against. Additionally, Tera Steel allows Regidrago to take on Fairy-, Dragon-, and Ice-type attacks in a pinch from Pokemon like Gardevoir, Hisuian Goodra, and Mamoswine. Regidrago thrives on balance and bulky offense structures that can keep it healthy through providing entry hazard control as well as switch-ins to faster threats while being able to chip its checks to open it up for a sweep late-game. Fairy-types like Gardevoir, Klefki, and Mimikyu are Regidrago's biggest roadblock to sweeping teams. Because of this, Regidrago greatly appreciates support from Steel-type partners that can handle them with ease, such as Bisharp, Registeel, Jirachi, and Magnezone. However, when these same Steel-type Pokemon are on the opposing team, they can cause problems for Regidrago. This means Magnezone is an especially good teammate, since it can provide extra support through Magnet Pull, locking in and KOing pesky opposing Steel-types for Regidrago. Additionally, other Pokemon that beat Steel-types like Krookodile, Mienshao, and Volcanion work well alongside Regidrago. What's more, Krookodile can surprise Fairy-types with its Gunk Shot; Mienshao is great at chipping and crippling Fairy-types with its U-turn and Knock Off, respectively; and Volcanion acts as a decent defensive switch-in to Fairy-types for Regidrago. Since Regidrago's chance at a sweep is heavily reliant on its ability to repeatedly throw off a powerful Dragon Energy, hazard control is vital. Defoggers like Talonflame complement Regidrago quite well, being decent switch-ins to Fairy-types like Gardevoir and Mimikyu while not overlapping with its typing unlike other hazard clearers such as Cyclizar and Noivern. In a similar vein, Wish passers and Healing Wish users like Umbreon, Jirachi, and Gardevoir as well as Lunar Dance Cresselia are great at keeping Regidrago healthy. Pivots like Magnezone, Galarian Zapdos, and Talonflame synergize well alongside Regidrago, as they can provide it with safe entry through their pivot moves, simultaneously keeping it healthy and maintaining Dragon Energy's power. On top of that, these three partners can threaten bothersome foes like Gardevoir, Registeel, and Mimikyu, respectively. Another issue with Regidrago is that the majority of Choice Scarf users outspeed Regidrago and, by dealing damage to it, threaten its chance at sweeping with Dragon Energy. This means that answers such as Slowbro and Gastrodon to Choice Scarf foes like Jirachi, Galarian Zapdos, and Krookodile are recommended. Pokemon like Klefki, Empoleon, and Rhyperior make for especially strong partners, as their hazards can wear down the opposing team to the point where Regidrago can sweep it without issue. Dragon Pulse provides Regidrago with a reliable STAB move that it can use repeatedly, though it is weaker than Draco Meteor and—depending on Regidrago's current HP—Dragon Energy. Regidrago can run Choice Specs instead of Choice Scarf to more easily break through bulkier teams; however, Dragon Energy is typically powerful enough without any further boosts, and Choice Specs leaves Regidrago open to being revenge killed or taking damage much more easily. Regidrago can become a setup sweeper with Loaded Dice and a set of Dragon Dance / Scale Shot / Earthquake / Tera Blast Steel, capitalizing on its gargantuan HP to find multiple turns to set up, but it's quite reliant on Terastallization to get past certain Fairy-types like Air Balloon Klefki.
Chesnaught (XY competitive strategy): Chesnaught is one of the best defensive Spikers in the tier. It boasts a base 122 Defense stat and has access to support moves such as Leech Seed and Spiky Shield, letting it take on many physical threats very well. Bulletproof makes it immune to moves such as Sludge Bomb that would normally put a big dent into it, allowing it to shut down threats such as Roserade without Hidden Power Fire and Chandelure locked into Shadow Ball. All those aside, Chesnaught is slow and has a poor Special Defense stat, so many decently fast special attackers can threaten it out. Spikes is very important, as it is one of the main reasons to use Chesnaught. It takes advantage of Chesnaught's bulk to set up entry hazards. The second moveslot is a toss-up between two forms of recovery. Leech Seed gives more passive recovery while wearing foes down. Synthesis, on the other hand, gives Chesnaught a method of reliable recovery. Spiky Shield allows you to scout for what the opposing Pokemon is going to do as well as gain more Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery. This also damages foes that try to hit Chesnaught physically. An option over Spiky Shield is Roar, which prevents Chesnaught from being setup fodder for some Pokemon, especially those that typically carry Substitute. The last moveslot depends on which offensive move you prefer. You could run Drain Punch for a reliable Fighting-type STAB move that also gets more recovery, or you could opt for Wood Hammer, a more powerful Grass-type STAB move with the drawback of recoil damage. Finally, Taunt is a viable option that prevents slower Pokemon such as Empoleon and Swampert from getting Stealth Rock up as well as preventing Empoleon from Defogging away your entry hazards. It also stops Trevenant from burning Chesnaught and Blissey from using any of its support moves. Maximum HP and Defense EVs with an Impish nature maximize Chesnaught's physical bulk, taking advantage of its naturally high Defense stat. Leftovers is run to give more passive recovery, especially in conjunction with Spiky Shield and Leech Seed should you choose to run them. Rocky Helmet is also a good item, as it allows Chesnaught to punish physical attackers that it switches into. Bulletproof should be run 100% of the time, as it allows Chesnaught to take on Pokemon that would normally threaten it, such as Roserade without Hidden Power Fire. Try going for Spikes or a Leech Seed on predicted switches to gradually wear the opponent's Pokemon down. If you choose to run Synthesis, use it whenever Chesnaught is getting low on HP so that it can constantly take on physical attackers and set up more layers of Spikes. Use Spiky Shield at times to scout what the foe is going to do, especially those that run a Choice item. If you are able to predict a switch into a Pokemon that is relatively safe such as a Crobat or a Gligar, use Roar to rack up entry hazard damage on opposing Pokemon while not allowing them to Defog for free. It also can be used against Pokemon such as Suicune that try to use Chesnaught as setup fodder. Do note that although Chesnaught is very physically bulky, it can get worn down easily by strong physical attacks such as Mienshao's High Jump Kick, especially if you are not running Synthesis. Empoleon is a good partner, as it can set up Stealth Rock while Chesnaught sets up Spikes. It also takes Psychic-, Flying- and Poison-type moves that are aimed at Chesnaught. Clerics such as Florges, Vaporeon, and Blissey can help get rid of the status ailments that Chesnaught typically has trouble with while at the same time sponging special hits that target Chesnaught's low Special Defense stat. If you choose not to run Synthesis, Chesnaught is easily worn down, so a Rapid Spin user is appreciated to get rid of entry hazards on your side of the field. Spikes take advantage of Chesnaught's bulk to set up entry hazards. Leech Seed gives additional passive recovery while wearing opposing Pokemon down. If you would rather opt for a more reliable form of recovery, Synthesis is your best option. Spiky Shield damages foes that try to hit Chesnaught physically and allows you to scout for what the opposing Pokemon is going to do and gain more Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery. Roar can be run over Spiky Shield to prevent Chesnaught from being setup fodder for certain Pokemon, especially those that typically carry Substitute. The last moveslot depends on which offensive move you prefer. Drain Punch is a reliable Fighting-type STAB move that also gets more recovery, while Wood Hammer is a more powerful Grass-type STAB move with the drawback of recoil damage. Finally, Taunt is a viable option that prevents slower Pokemon such as Empoleon and Swampert from setting up Stealth Rock and prevents Empoleon from Defogging away your entry hazards. It also stops Trevenant from burning Chesnaught and Blissey from using any of its support moves. Maximum HP and Special Defense EVs with a Careful nature maximize Chesnaught's special bulk, giving it good mixed defenses, which allows it to more effectively check Hydreigon, Mega Blastoise, Roserade, and Mega Ampharos. Leftovers gives Chesnaught passive recovery, especially in conjunction with Spiky Shield and Leech Seed if you choose to run them. Always run Bulletproof to allow Chesnaught to take on more threats. Try to set up Spikes or go for a Leech Seed on predicted switches to wear opposing Pokemon down. Use Synthesis to recover when at low HP to avoid being worn down. Use Spiky Shield at times to scout for what move the opposing Pokemon is going to use, which helps against Choice-locked Pokemon. Use Roar on predicted switches into Defoggers such as Crobat and Gligar to prevent them from Defogging for free. Using it against strong special attackers such as Chandelure as they come in is a good idea as well. Note that even with maximum HP and Special Defense investment, Chesnaught is not going to appreciate taking really powerful special hits, so avoid switching it directly into moves such as a Life Orb Hydreigon's Draco Meteor or a Chandelure, unless it is Choice-locked into anything but a Fire-type move. Bulky Water-types such as Suicune and Vaporeon can take Fire- and Ice-type attacks for Chesnaught. Vaporeon in particular is a good cleric to get rid of Chesnaught's status ailments, but you can also use other clerics such as Florges and Umbreon. Tentacruel has relatively good synergy with Chesnaught, is able to set up Toxic Spikes, and can Rapid Spin away opposing entry hazards. Both have to be careful of strong Psychic-type attacks, though. Spikes takes advantage of Chesnaught's bulk to set up multiple layers. Taunt stops opposing Pokemon from using a variety of support moves, including Defog, entry hazard moves of their own, Wish, status moves, and setup. The third moveslot is up to preference. Leech Seed gets more passive recovery while wearing foes down, and Synthesis gives Chesnaught a method of reliable recovery. Roar prevents Chesnaught from being setup fodder for faster Pokemon, especially Substitute users, but limits Chesnaught's recovery to just Leftovers. On the last slot, Drain Punch is a good reliable Fighting-type STAB move that helps Chesnaught regain some HP lost. For more power, Wood Hammer is a fine option as a Grass-type STAB move at the cost of some recoil damage. 172 Speed EVs are used to outspeed and Taunt uninvested Cresselia, Suicune, and Gligar, preventing the former two from setting up and the last from using Defog or Stealth Rock. It also stops all three of the aforementioned Pokemon from recovering back any HP lost. HP is then maxed out, and the remaining EVs are invested into Defense to still maintain good physical bulk. An alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 164 Def / 92 Spe can be used to outspeed up to uninvested Florges while still outspeeding standard Jellicent, Vaporeon, Umbreon, and Alomomola. Speed can be further invested in to outspeed specially defensive Roserade and defensive Arcanine, requiring 228 and 252 Speed EVs, respectively. A Jolly nature with 228 Speed EVs can also be utilized to outspeed 24 Speed Tentacruel. Leftovers is run to give more passive recovery, which is especially effective if you are running Leech Seed. Bulletproof is chosen to grant immunity to moves such as Shadow Ball and Sludge Bomb that Chesnaught would normally not appreciate getting hit by. Try setting up Spikes or go for a Leech Seed on predicted switches to wear opposing Pokemon down. Use Synthesis to recover when Chesnaught does not have a lot of HP to avoid being worn down. If you choose to run Roar, use it on switches to fast Defog and Rapid Spin users such as Crobat and Tentacruel, respectively, to prevent entry hazard removal, as Taunt from Chesnaught cannot deal with these. Also, try to avoid revealing Taunt too early. It is best to use it when the foe is low on HP and needs to recover, or if setting up entry hazards or Defogging is an extremely obvious move. Bulky Water-types such as Suicune and Vaporeon can take Fire- and Ice-type attacks for Chesnaught. Vaporeon in particular is a good cleric to get rid of Chesnaught's status ailments, but other clerics such as Florges and Umbreon also work as partners. Tentacruel has relatively good synergy with Chesnaught, is able to set up Toxic Spikes, and can Rapid Spin away opposing entry hazards. Both have to be careful of strong Psychic-type attacks, though. A teammate that can handle fast Defog users, particularly Crobat, would be handy, as Crobat can easily threaten Chesnaught out. Rhyperior is a good partner for that reason and is also able to set up Stealth Rock alongside Chesnaught's Spikes. Setup sweepers such as Lucario appreciate Chesnaught's Spikes-stacking and prevention of a slow Defog. They also benefit from walls being unable to recover back any HP lost. Toxic can be run to wear down opposing walls and rack up serious residual damage in conjunction with Leech Seed. Stone Edge hits incoming Flying-types such as Crobat that would normally have a safe switch into Chesnaught, as well as hitting Fire-type switch-ins harder. Earthquake also hits all the Fire-types in the tier except for Rotom-H while hitting Steel-types, which is useful if you are not running Drain Punch. Super Fang is handy to wear Pokemon down at a faster rate, especially opposing walls. Chesnaught's Attack stat is reasonably good, so it can also make good use of an offensive Spiker set. When its Attack is maximized and it is holding a Life Orb, Chesnaught is able to severely damage one of its biggest counters in Crobat, OHKOing it after Stealth Rock. An offensive set with Bulk Up or Swords Dance to pressurise defensive teams is definitely viable as well. Chesnaught also has Belly Drum in its movepool, but does not have the Speed or the priority to utilize it effectively without the proper support.
Chesnaught (SM competitive strategy): Chesnaught is a reliable physically bulky Spikes user that has access to recovery in Synthesis, enabling it to get the entry hazard up several times in a game. Bulletproof helps it out defensively, providing it with immunities to common moves such as Gengar and Chandelure's Shadow Ball and Stakataka's Gyro Ball. Its Grass / Fighting typing combined with Chesnaught's high Defense helps it switch into several key physical attackers such as Krookodile, Zeraora, and Bisharp. However, while this typing helps Chesnaught greatly against many physical threats, it also leaves Chesnaught critically weak to several powerful attackers such as Latias, Togekiss, Moltres, and Mega Altaria. This, combined with its passivity, gives several free turns to threatening setup sweepers like Calm Mind Latias, Swords Dance Scizor, and Dragon Dance Mega Altaria. Furthermore, while Chesnaught offers several utility options and more physical bulk, it still competes with Klefki as a Spiker, which is faster, has access to Prankster and a variety of status moves, and has a typing that can check threatening Dragon-types. Spikes gives Chesnaught and its teammates a way to directly punish switches and weaken the opposing team over the course of the game. Wood Hammer allows Chesnaught to hit Water-types such as Slowbro and Primarina and Ground-types like Swampert and Hippowdon. Roar helps mitigate some of Chesnaught's passiveness that makes it setup fodder for Swords Dance Scizor and Heracross by phazing them. This also works well in tandem with Spikes damage. Drain Punch gives Chesnaught a form of recovery while damaging Dark- and Steel-types like Bisharp and Cobalion. Leech Seed can be run instead to generate passive recovery for Chesnaught so it isn't overreliant on Synthesis, which greatly benefits Rocky Helmet sets particularly. Toxic can be run to punish Chesnaught's switch-ins such as Latias, Moltres, and Infernape to weaken them over time and prevent setup sweepers like Dragon Dance Mega Altaria from setting up. 12 Speed EVs enable Chesnaught to outspeed Alomomola and potentially KO it with Wood Hammer if it's sufficiently weakened. Leftovers provides consistent passive recovery that can help it check threats like Krookodile without being forced to rely on recovery, while Rocky Helmet helps rack up more chip damage, aided by Spikes damage, on physical foes such as Choice Band Scizor that try to attack it or pivot out with U-turn. Chesnaught can be switched into physical attackers that fail to substantially damage it, such as Bisharp, Krookodile, and Crawdaunt, to generate free turns as they're forced out. Chesnaught can take advantage of free turns to either heal itself or set up Spikes, which can punish the switches that Chesnaught forces by virtue of its typing and physical bulk. Synthesis should be used to maintain Chesnaught's HP if it's needed to check a threatening physical attacker such as Crawdaunt and Zeraora, but it has low PP, so being aware of this and preserving it for when it's necessary ensures Chesnaught has the best matchup against key physical wallbreakers. Chesnaught should utilize Drain Punch consistently due to its good neutral coverage against foes it switches into like Zeraora. It is also optimal to use it against foes such as Krookodile and Crawdaunt to prevent Chesnaught from being worn down through recoil if it can be avoided. Chesnaught is extremely passive and does not have much offensive presence, so it should be wary of letting setup sweepers in. However, if it is running Roar, it can phaze them. Roar can also be used to phaze entry hazard removers predicted to switch in, such as Moltres, Rotom-H, and Tentacruel, to prevent them from being able to remove Chesnaught's Spikes and force them to take more damage from entry hazards when switching back in. Leech Seed should also be used liberally if being run; Leech Seed and Leftovers recovery can help to keep Chesnaught healthy without being forced to rely on Synthesis as much. If a foe is predicted to switch out, using Leech Seed consistently helps to wear switch-ins down and punish them. Status can burden Chesnaught greatly, particularly Toxic poison and burn, so being wary of potential Toxic users like Alomomola and Blissey and Scald users such as Suicune and Empoleon can keep Chesnaught clear of status. Without cleric support, switching Chesnaught into these Pokemon, despite its typing and resistances, can cripple it for the remainder of the game. Chesnaught fits best on bulky offense and balance teams that need a physically defensive Pokemon with a good matchup against several of the tier's most threatening Dark-types. It appreciates Flying-type checks such as Rotom-H, Nihilego, and Diancie greatly, as they can pivot into foes like Moltres and Togekiss that Chesnaught is forced out by and appreciate Chesnaught dealing with more specially defensive foes such as Blissey. Stealth Rock support from teammates such as the aforementioned Nihilego and Diancie as well as other options such as Hippowdon, Mega Steelix, and Mega Aggron helps Chesnaught by stacking residual damage with Spikes and further punishing switches. The latter two options as well as other Steel-types such as Scizor can help Chesnaught in the matchup against Fairy- and Psychic-types such as Mega Altaria and Latias too. Bulky Water-types such as Slowbro, Tentacruel, and Empoleon can take care of threatening Fire-types such as Infernape and Volcanion for Chesnaught and appreciate its ability to switch into several physical attackers such as Crawdaunt that these Pokemon struggle with. Due to Chesnaught's susceptibility to status, cleric support from teammates such as Togekiss, Blissey, and Florges is appreciated, allowing it to switch into Scald and Toxic more freely to check certain Water-types or set up Spikes. The latter two can also provide Wish support to make Chesnaught less reliant on Synthesis. Immediate offensive threats such as Latias, Choice Band Crawdaunt, and Nidoking can help to make up for Chesnaught's overall passivity, preventing it from letting in too many opposing threats or giving bulkier foes more opportunities to recover HP. Chesnaught offers these Pokemon Spikes support for chip damage on foes as a result; Bisharp is an especially good teammate, providing offensive presence, being able to deter Defog with Defiant, and taking advantage of Spikes support immensely. Due to Chesnaught's role as a Spikes setter, having other team options that can punish opposing entry hazard removal, such as Taunt Hydreigon, Electrium Z Latias, and Pursuit Mega Aerodactyl, is extremely useful. Spiky Shield can be run to stack passive damage on foes and gain an extra turn of Leftovers and Leech Seed recovery so Chesnaught isn't forced to use Synthesis repeatedly. 176 Speed EVs can be used with Taunt to prevent Gligar from using Toxic and Defog, but it cuts into Chesnaught's bulk a lot.
Chesnaught (SV competitive strategy): Chesnaught is a premier physical wall and Spikes setter in RU. With its great bulk and typing that naturally checks threats like Krookodile, Bisharp, and Rhyperior, it can consistently find opportunities to set up entry hazards and chip away at the opposing team itself. With utility moves like Knock Off and Leech Seed, Chesnaught can support its team throughout the game while serving as a wall for many physical attackers. Chesnaught has a great matchup against the best spinner in the tier, Cyclizar, with the ability to OHKO it should it attempt to remove Spikes. Despite Chesnaught's great matchups against many Pokemon in the tier, its typing leaves it with plenty of poor ones; Mimikyu and Entei for instance hit it for super effective damage. Chesnaught's Special Defense is also low, and it will struggle to take any special attacks it does not resist, making it vulnerable to Pokemon like Gardevoir and Armarouge. Chesnaught also suffers from a poor matchup against the Defog users of the tier, such as Noivern and Talonflame, that can easily prevent Spikes from staying active. Chesnaught is one of the most reliable Spikes setters and provides a solid defensive backbone for its team. Knock Off hits the Ghost- and Psychic-types like Basculegion-F and Slowbro that aren't afraid of Body Press while also making foes like Talonflame and Noivern more susceptible to entry hazards by removing their Heavy-Duty Boots. Synthesis provides a reliable means for Chesnaught to heal itself, although Hippowdon's Sand Stream will neuter the effectiveness. Leech Seed is a more offensive form of recovery that provides chip damage to Chesnaught's checks and can also heal its allies. Bulletproof provides an immunity to Gengar's Shadow Ball and Amoonguss's Sludge Bomb. Rocky Helmet punishes U-turn attackers that want to pivot away from Chesnaught like Cyclizar and Jirachi. 52 Speed EVs allow Chesnaught to outspeed uninvested Bisharp, and 204 Defense EVs guarantee that Body Press OHKOes Terrakion after Spikes. Tera Ghost prevents Cyclizar from using Rapid Spin while also providing Chesnaught an immunity to Fighting, improving its matchup against Mienshao and Terrakion. Tera Water flips Chesnaught's Fire weakness, allowing it to stand up against Entei and Armarouge. Tera Steel turns the devastating Flying weakness into a resistance to aid against Noivern and Talonflame, in addition to new resistances to Dragon, Fairy, and Psychic which improve its matchup against Cyclizar, Mimikyu, and Jirachi. Chesnaught can fit comfortably on any team style that needs a defensive presence like balance, bulky offense, or stall. Special walls like Umbreon, Jirachi, and Empoleon are also important due to Chesnaught's poor ability to check the various special attackers of the tier like Gardevoir and Armarouge. Chesnaught's natural weakness to Flying-types like Noivern and Talonflame will often invite them in and allow it to use Knock Off to remove their Heavy-Duty Boots, making them vulnerable to Stealth Rock set by Chansey, Registeel, and Rhyperior. Chesnaught is vulnerable to opposing Spikes, so it appreciates hazard removal from allies like Cyclizar, Noivern, and Talonflame. Chesnaught can use Seed Bomb or Wood Hammer to take advantage of its Grass typing to hit Ground- and Water-types like Hippowdon and Slowbro. Iron Defense can boost Chesnaught's survivability and the damage of Body Press, allowing it to serve as a potential sweeper. Drain Punch is an alternative Fighting-type move that does less damage but doubles as a source of recovery. Close Combat is another option that does more damage than Body Press, enabling OHKOs on Pokemon like Empoleon, Magnezone, and Hisuian Goodra with some Attack investment, although this hinders Chesnaught's role as a tank. Roar can be used to prevent foes like Mimikyu and Feraligatr from setting up. Chesnaught also has access to the incredible setup move Belly Drum, which can make it a very potent setup sweeper should it manage to set up safely. While its Speed is too low to take full advantage of it, Chesnaught can use Trailblaze to boost its Speed or priority Grassy Glide when paired with Grassy Surge Thwackey. Tera Fire grants an immunity to burn, a resistance to Fire, and access to Tera Blast Fire that hits Amoonguss and opposing Chesnaught.
Minior (SM competitive strategy): Despite Minior's appeal as a Shell Smash sweeper with a useful ability to aid it with setting up, it falls short of more reliable setup sweepers like Comfey, Braviary, and Delphox due to its lacking stats in Meteor forme and poor defensive typing, which limit its ability to force opposing Pokemon out to safely set up. Minior also struggles to reliably beat bulky Water- and Ground-types like Vaporeon, Steelix, and Rhydon even with a Shell Smash boost. This set aims to assist Minior in beating Pokemon such as Rhydon and defensive Slowking with +2 Continental Crush and Hidden Power Grass, although a White Herb and Acrobatics can be used to provide it with a more consistent attack and improve the Torterra matchup. Additionally, Substitute can be used alongside Acrobatics over Stone Edge with an alternative EV spread of 12 HP / 244 Atk / 252 Spe to guarantee Minior's ability activating after two Substitutes. Unfortunately, Minior still struggles to actually beat its checks one-on-one and has no early- and mid-game presence, since its health must be preserved to try to set up and sweep.
Minior (SV competitive strategy): Minior serves as a late-game setup sweeper, providing teams a self-sufficient cleaner via Shell Smash and Shields Down to outspeed the entire metagame once in base forme with Jolly, in addition to hitting hard off of its boosted Attack. Acrobatics synergizes with the White Herb consumption after a Shell Smash, Earthquake provides a strong attack against Flying-resistant Pokemon like Regirock and Jolteon, and Stone Edge overpowers Rock-weak threats like Articuno, Beartic, and Vikavolt. Substitute provides a way of reaching Core forme safely at the cost of needing to make contact to hit Pokemon such as Mesprit and Weezing. Jolly is used if Minior needs to outspeed certain Pokemon when unboosted, such as Timid Whimsicott and neutral base 110s if Minior is in Meteor forme, but Adamant can be used for the additional power instead, such as to assure a 2HKO on Regirock and confirming an OHKO on Spiritomb without Stealth Rock. Tera Grass can be used to tank a hit from Pokemon like Clawitzer, Jolteon, and Lycanroc and KO them, is the best typing against common moves from priority users like Thwackey, Basculin, and Lycanroc, and can turn interactions against Lanturn and Rotom-C into setup opportunities. Alternatively, Tera Ground can be used for extra power for breaking through Regirock, as well as providing Minior with an accurate, non-contact STAB move. However, this option leaves Minior vulnerable to Basculin's Aqua Jet and Thwackey's Grassy Glide. Minior works best either on snow teams alongside Abomasnow setting Aurora Veil, where Minior can provide an answer to Charizard and other Fire-types. Minior serves as a cleaner on more bulkier teams at the end once its teammates have weakened the opposing team over time, and it can also work on defensive teams as a primary wincon in a similar fashion. Wallbreakers like Clawitzer, Jolteon, Arboliva, and Magmortar all can appreciate Minior, as they deal significant damage to walls like Weezing and Regirock over the course of a game, allowing for Minior to clean up late-game. Hisuian Sneasel or Beartic in snow can serve as a bit of a double-threat option alongside Minior, where defensive structures are often able to take on one major threat but find themselves insufficient to wall both threats over the course of a game. Minior cannot sweep if strong priority from Pokemon like Hitmontop and Lycanroc remain in play, so removing those with teammates before sweeping is a necessity. Minior can take advantage of Pokemon that do not carry super effective coverage, such as Charizard and Snorlax, as setup opportunities, so Pokemon that bring them in, such as Shaymin and Weezing, can help enable Minior to set up. Pokemon with access to entry hazard removal, such as Hitmontop on more offensive teams and Sandslash elsewhere, can remove Stealth Rock, which otherwise poses a serious threat to Minior's sweep. Taunt can also accomplish this task, with Alolan Persian on more offensive teams and faster Weezing elsewhere , but this risks Stealth Rock going up if outplayed. A special set can be run with moves like Meteor Beam, Power Gem, and Earth Power, but the reduced power and lack of Acrobatics can make this an inferior option beyond the surprise factor. Minior also has access to some utility moves, such as Stealth Rock and U-turn, but it is better off as a sweeper because its poor defensive typing leaves any support role it could play done better by other entry hazard setters like Mesprit, Sandslash, and Regirock. \* _Stealth Rock_: Minior prefers being in control of when it changes formes when possible, and Stealth Rock dealing unignorable chip just for switching in can significantly impede its ability to manage the forme transformation, on top of it making Minior much easier to KO.
Emboar (BW competitive strategy): such as Slowking, Qwilfish, and Rhydon innately keeping it in check, common and dangerous Pokemon, such as Sceptile, Durant, and Jynx, with Emboar's coverage, allowing it to hit Slowking, Qwilfish, and Moltres Fire Blast lets Emboar beat Steelix, Tangrowth, and even Qwilfish cannot; Poliwrath, Rhydon, and Alomomola are all hit incredibly hard can also be effective; Sceptile, Galvantula, Choice Scarf Rotom-C, and need of a solid check to threats such as Durant, Escavalier, Lilligant, Emboar's common switch-ins, such as Rhydon, Feraligatr, Kabutops, with Slowking, Poliwrath, Qwilfish, Quagsire, and Alomomola all being
Emboar (XY competitive strategy): Emboar is one of the most fearsome wallbreakers in the tier thanks to its ability Reckless. This ability significantly powers up Emboar's main STAB move, Flare Blitz, allowing it to hit extremely hard even against resisted targets. Apart from its excellent STAB type combination, Emboar has a solid offensive movepool with coverage options such as Wild Charge and Sucker Punch. Emboar's typing allows it to check common offensive threats such as Escavalier and Houndoom. In addition, Emboar sports a fair amount of versatility, as it can use a Choice Band to wallbreak, a Choice Scarf to revenge kill faster threats, as well as a defensive set to take advantage of its unique typing. However, common Water-types such as Qwilfish, Jellicent, and Alomomola prevent Emboar from continually spamming its strongest attacks. Unfortunately, Emboar has a fairly average Speed stat, leaving it outsped by common offensive Pokemon such as Meloetta, Delphox, and Mesprit; Emboar is also quickly worn down by Flare Blitz recoil and entry hazards. Flare Blitz is an extremely powerful STAB move backed by Reckless, and deals massive damage to anything that does not resist it. Superpower is a strong secondary STAB move that hits Rock-types such as Rhyperior and Scrafty for solid damage. Superpower also hits Houndoom, which can potentially switch into a Flare Blitz and gain a Flash Fire boost. Wild Charge provides important coverage on bulky Water-types, particularly Alomomola and Jellicent. Sucker Punch alleviates Emboar's lackluster Speed as a form of priority, hitting faster Pokemon such as Meloetta and Hitmonlee. The given EV spread is standard for an offensive Pokemon, with maximum Attack investment to hit as hard as possible and maximum Speed investment to outspeed the majority of defensive Pokemon. An Adamant nature is used for the significant boost in power, but a Jolly nature can be used to outspeed threats such as neutral-natured Exploud and Samurott. Reckless is Emboar's best ability, providing a heavy boost in power to Flare Blitz and Wild Charge. Choice Band amplifies Emboar's wallbreaking ability, while an Expert Belt can be used to bluff a Choice item. Life Orb is also an option, but keep in mind that Emboar gets worn down incredibly fast when using it. Flare Blitz is generally the best move to go for, as it deals heavy damage to anything that does not resist it and still puts a hefty chunk in bulky Pokemon such as Jellicent. Use the appropriate coverage move to hit the respective target, such as using Wild Charge on a predicted switch into a bulky Water-type such as Qwilfish, Jellicent, and Alomomola. Emboar does a solid job of forcing out various Bug-, Dark-, and Steel-types such as Houndoom and Escavalier, but Emboar is not the most reliable switch-in to them in fear of losing its item or taking a heavy hit. Psychic-types such as Mesprit and Meloetta appreciate Emboar's ability to check and consistently pressure Dark-, Bug-, and Steel-types. Mesprit is a notable partner that provides Stealth Rock support to wear down Emboar's switch-ins as well as Healing Wish to heal Emboar after it has taken damage from attacks and Flare Blitz recoil. Setup sweepers such as Samurott make for good teammates, as they appreciate Emboar's incredible wallbreaking ability. A slow Volt Switch or U-turn from the likes of Flygon, Lanturn, and Rotom-C is helpful to get Emboar in safely. Flare Blitz is a powerful STAB move that OHKOes or at least deals massive damage to the offensive Pokemon that Choice Scarf Emboar is used to revenge kill such as Virizion. Superpower is a secondary STAB move that targets Rock- and Dark-types such as Rhyperior and Houndoom, and also has the added benefit of not having recoil damage. Wild Charge hits bulky Water-types such as Jellicent and Alomomola, but it is fairly weak without a boosting item. Toxic is mainly just filler, but it can be used as a last-ditch effort to hinder Pokemon Emboar cannot dent, such as Seismitoad. The given EV spread is standard for an offensive Pokemon with maximum Attack and Speed investment to hit as hard as possible. A Jolly nature is necessary to outspeed threats such as Sneasel and Virizion. Reckless is the preferred ability to boost the power of Flare Blitz and Wild Charge. With a Choice Scarf equipped, Emboar acts as a great revenge killer to threats such as Sneasel, Houndoom, and Virizion, and should be played as such. Flare Blitz is generally the best attack to go for, as even Pokemon that resist it take a hefty chunk of damage. Use the appropriate coverage move to hit their targets, such as using Superpower on a predicted switch into Rhyperior or Houndoom, aiming to absorb a Flare Blitz. Despite resisting their STAB moves, Emboar should avoid switching into the likes of Escavalier and Shiftry, as losing its item to Knock Off is extremely detrimental because Emboar would no longer be able to revenge the threats it is supposed to. As this set works best as a late-game cleaner, wallbreakers such as Clawitzer pair well with it. Psychic-types in general make for solid partners, as they greatly appreciate Emboar's ability to check Dark-, Steel-, and Bug-types. Mesprit is a notable one, as it provides Healing Wish support to heal Emboar after it has been weakened from Flare Blitz recoil. Pokemon with Volt Switch or U-turn are good teammates to bring Emboar in safely, such as Lanturn, Meloetta, and Liepard. A mixed set with Superpower, Fire Blast, Sucker Punch, and Grass Knot plays as a wallbreaker in a slightly different way, but is significantly weaker with Blaze over Reckless. Flame Charge can be used as an alternate way to alleviate Emboar's lackluster Speed. Bulk Up boosts Emboar's Attack and Defense, but Emboar struggles to fit it into a moveset. Endeavor cripples bulky Pokemon after Emboar has been brought down to low HP, and also works well in tandem with Substitute. Emboar can also run the combination of Substitute + Focus Punch, alongside other moves like Flare Blitz and Toxic, in order to gain an advantage against statusing Pokemon such as Alomomola, making sure to at least run both 176 HP EVs and 224 SpD EVs in order to not have your Substitute broken by Seismic Toss and to allow Emboar to always be able to use Substitute against Alomomola's Scald.
Emboar (SM competitive strategy): Despite Emboar's access to Reckless and high Attack stat, it finds itself outclassed by numerous other Fighting- and Fire-type wallbreakers in RU, such as Bewear, Toxicroak, Medicham, and Arcanine. Emboar's base 65 Speed stat and decent STAB combination mean it is able to outspeed and beat common Fighting- and Fire-type checks like Cresselia, Florges, Mega Ampharos, Adamant Tyrantrum, Rhyperior, and Milotic. It still falls short of prominent Pokemon such as Barbaracle, Tyrantrum, and Gardevoir, though. While Reckless is a great offensive ability, it comes with the downside of wearing down Emboar extremely quickly. Coupled with its relatively low Speed, lackluster bulk, and vulnerability to entry hazards, this often means Emboar won't last long in drawn-out battles against bulkier teams, unlike other wallbreakers with recovery and better defensive presences like Bewear and Toxicroak. Emboar's secondary STAB attack in Superpower also has a drawback in lowering its Attack and Defense stats; the opponent can take advantage of this to force Emboar out or set up on it, which further compounds its vulnerability to entry hazards. Despite its decent defensive typing, it offers very little defensive presence compared to Bewear, Toxicroak, or Arcanine. Reckless-boosted Wild Charge hits Flying- and Water-types like Noivern, Slowbro, Mega Blastoise, and Milotic, which would be able to wall Emboar otherwise. Earthquake, while hitting very little on its own that Emboar's other coverage moves cannot, is a safer move to use than Superpower because it doesn't lower Emboar's Attack and Defense, and it still hits Pokemon such as Tyrantrum, Dragalge, Diancie, Rhyperior, and Salazzle. It must be noted that the difference in damage between Earthquake and Superpower is very noticeable, and most of the Pokemon listed already dislike switching into Emboar anyway. Sucker Punch can provide priority, which can be used to revenge kill frail foes such as Salazzle and Swellow. However, it can be quite unreliable because being locked into the move is very easily exploitable. Maximum Attack investment lets Emboar hit as hard as possible. Maximum Speed investment with a Jolly nature allows Emboar to outspeed the crowded 242 Speed benchmark, which includes Pokemon like Mandibuzz, Adamant Tyrantrum, Bewear, and Florges. Choice Band makes Emboar hit extremely hard, though keep in mind this will make it wear itself down even further, and other Pokemon can take advantage of it when it is Choice locked. For example, Barbaracle can use it as setup fodder on a predicted Sucker Punch. Flare Blitz is the move Emboar should use most often due to its tremendous power. However, if the opponent has several Fire-resistant Pokemon such as Milotic and Tyrantrum, try to predict the opponent switching into them by hitting them with the appropriate coverage move. Emboar's decent defensive typing lets it check several Pokemon such as Escavalier, Mega Abomasnow, and Sneasel in a pinch. However, due to its lackluster bulk and its tendency to quickly accumulate recoil damage, it is a very shaky check to them in the long run. Likewise, due to its dependency on its item to wallbreak, it isn't the greatest Knock Off switch-in despite its resistance to Dark. This can make building with Emboar somewhat awkward. Only use Sucker Punch sparingly, and only use it when you're certain the target will attack; opponents can easily take advantage of an Emboar that is locked into Sucker Punch. Fast sweepers such as Virizion and Dragon Dance Zygarde-10% appreciate Emboar's ability to break walls such as Cresselia, Mandibuzz, and Uxie. Emboar needs reliable entry hazard removal from the likes of Sigilyph and Mandibuzz to function properly due to the huge amounts of recoil it tends to accumulate. Conversely, it appreciates hazards support of its own to wear down its common switch-ins such as Milotic, Alolan Marowak, and Slowbro. Psychic-types such as Gardevoir and Espeon appreciate Emboar's ability to check and pressure Dark- and Bug-types, and they can wear down checks to Emboar like Dragalge and Salazzle in return. Additionally, Gardevoir can utilize Healing Wish to heal Emboar if it has taken too much damage, and Espeon is able to bounce back entry hazards using Magic Bounce to further support it. A slow U-turn or Volt Switch user such as Mega Ampharos or Uxie allows Emboar to enter the field safely. Emboar appreciates Pursuit users such as Drapion, Sneasel, Escavalier, and Aerodactyl that can trap Pokemon like Slowbro and Noivern that prevent it from spamming its STAB attacks. With an Expert Belt, Emboar is able to hit super effective targets such as Bronzong and Porygon2 hard, and it comes with the benefit of not locking Emboar into a single move. This can be very beneficial if the opponent has several Pokemon that resist one of its moves, and the lack of a Choice item also lets Emboar use Sucker Punch more reliably. While a Choice Scarf set may seem decent, Emboar's low Speed stat doesn't allow it to revenge kill any notable setup sweeper, and it provides very little utility over other Choice Scarf users, such as Tyrantrum and Flygon.
Emboar (SV competitive strategy): Despite facing tight competition from other Fighting-types like Flamigo, Scrafty, and the Paldean Tauros formes, which are faster, more useful defensively, or both, Emboar is still a solid wallbreaker. Emboar's sheer strength, coverage, and access to Reckless-boosted STAB Flare Blitz let it easily cleave through physical walls like Galarian Slowbro and Bellibolt without requiring Choice Band or setup, making it hard for balance to pivot around. Sucker Punch makes up for Emboar's low Speed, picking off weakened foes such as Delphox and Salazzle; be mindful of utility moves like Encore and Toxic when trying to revenge kill these Pokemon, though. Knock Off punishes walls like Gligar and Altaria that are reliant on their items and can otherwise annoy Emboar, while Earthquake provides coverage for Bellibolt, Skuntank, and Qwilfish that doesn't trigger Static, Aftermath, and Rocky Helmet. Emboar can run additional Reckless-boosted coverage in Head Smash and Wild Charge to destroy Altaria and Tera Water Gligar, respectively, but these moves aren't particularly useful against most teams. These moves also wear Emboar down even faster, especially Head Smash, which limits its offensive capabilities. Even though a Jolly nature lets Emboar outspeed neutral-natured threats like Decidueye and Toxtricity, an Adamant nature allows it to potentially 2HKO Galarian Slowbro, Milotic, and physically defensive Gastrodon from full HP with the appropriate STAB move. Heavy-Duty Boots is preferred for increasing Emboar's longevity and giving it more flexibility in its approach to wallbreaking, but Choice Band can be used if Emboar wishes to go all in on decimating the opposition, letting Flare Blitz 2HKO even Mudsdale and Palossand. Emboar can't afford to switch directly into most Pokemon, since it's quite slow and already on a timer due to Flare Blitz's recoil; as such, it benefits a lot from being paired with pivots. Scyther, Rotom-C, and Meloetta are some offensive Pokemon that fulfill this role, baiting in walls like Coalossal and Wo-Chien for Emboar to clobber while picking up the slack for it against faster teams. Rotom-C is also notable for checking Water- and Ground-types like Milotic, Mudsdale, and Gastrodon. Slower pivots like Bellibolt, Gligar, and Milotic also generate momentum for Emboar while using their bulk and typing to stave off revenge killers like Paldean Tauros-W and Skuntank. Bellibolt can also potentially slow down faster physical attackers with Static, giving Emboar even more opportunities to fire off its strong attacks. Other paralysis spreaders like Duraludon and Dudunsparce can supply additional speed control, effectively nullifying Emboar's main flaw. Psychic- and Fairy-type sweepers such as Galarian Slowbro and Florges benefit from the immense pressure Emboar puts on Dark- and Steel-types. In return, these Pokemon offer Emboar safety from faster foes like Flamigo and Kilowattrel and can use moves like Toxic and Psychic Noise to quickly wear down nuisances like Mudsdale and Scream Tail. In addition, physical setup sweepers like Scrafty, Zoroark, and Scyther have an easier time finishing teams off with Emboar ripping through walls like Florges, Coalossal, and Houndstone early-game. Emboar makes use of Choice Scarf to counteract its middling Speed stat, becoming a terrifying revenge killer. Its main advantages over other revenge killers are its surprise factor and, more importantly, its incredible attacking power compounded by Reckless, with Reckless-boosted Flare Blitz making light work of threats like Scyther and Florges as well as breaking past common walls such as Wo-Chien and Bronzong. Knock Off complements Emboar's dual STAB moves well; it can slice through the likes of Delphox and Golurk with no drawbacks, as well as remove items from the likes of Gligar and Galarian Slowbro switching into it. Knock Off is usually the safest move to lock into due to its complete lack of drawbacks and its guarantee of progress with item removal. Earthquake is a useful mid-ground that can hit Fire-resistant Pokemon like Delphox and Arcanine and Fighting-resistant Pokemon like Toxtricity and Galarian Slowbro in the same slot while additionally avoiding negative contact effects like Bellibolt's Static, Skuntank's Aftermath, and chip damage from the various Rocky Helmet users in the tier. Head Smash is a risky coverage option that allows Emboar to hit Altaria super effectively while cleanly OHKOing Hisuian Braviary and making light work of Arcanine. Additionally, it retains some of the benefits of Earthquake by hitting Fire-types super effectively, and, as it's a Rock-type move, it has no immunities, unlike Earthquake. Head Smash is still a risky option because the recoil damage is a huge drawback, and its accuracy is poor. Wild Charge is another midground option that lets Emboar hit Water-types like Paldean Tauros-W and Milotic and, like Head Smash, is boosted by Reckless. Tera Dark sharpens Knock Off into a strong STAB attack that can cleanly OHKO Delphox and 2HKO physically defensive Galarian Slowbro. Additionally, Tera Dark gives Emboar a relevant Psychic immunity in the face of Choice Scarf Meloetta and Galarian Articuno. Tera Fighting and Tera Fire can be used to bolster the already great power of Emboar's STAB attacks, letting it 2HKO Milotic and Arcanine with Tera Fighting Close Combat and 2HKO physically defensive Bellibolt and Gligar with Tera Fire Flare Blitz. Emboar's Choice Scarf-boosted Speed allows it to outrun even base 120 Speed Pokemon like Minior; however, Kilowattrel and various faster Choice Scarf users still outspeed and threaten Emboar. Emboar fits well on balance teams, where it can act as a physical attacker and revenge killer, taking the pressure off of potential defensive teammates like Florges and Duraludon in the face of threats like Delphox, Heracross, and Salazzle. In order to get the most out of Emboar, it should be paired with pivoting support, bringing it in without it taking unnecessary chip damage against offensive threats like Tatsugiri and Delphox. Good examples of partners that can provide this are Kilowattrel, Gligar, and Bellibolt. Florges appreciates Emboar's ability to threaten Steel-types like Bronzong and Alolan Sandslash. In return, it can either pass Wish, which is incredibly helpful due to Emboar's tendency to be worn down quickly, or clean up games with Calm Mind after Emboar has broken a hole in the opposing team. Healing Wish support from the likes of Mesprit is useful to not only give Emboar a second wind after it's chipped down by recoil and attacks but also clear potential status like paralysis to allow it to clean. Other physical attackers like Decidueye and Golurk can beat Milotic and Galarian Slowbro, respectively, additionally working with Emboar to take chunks out of Bellibolt. Entry hazard removal is important because Emboar already has enough issues being worn down by its own attacks; spinners like Alolan Sandslash and Hitmontop and Defoggers like Altaria and Scyther can fill this role. Kilowattrel is a good naturally fast speed control option to help round out Emboar's team and prevents over-reliance on Emboar to force out opposing threats. Choice Scarf Emboar should be used over its Heavy-Duty Boots and Choice Band variants on slower teams that rely on Emboar to outspeed and force out threats for them.
Bewear (SM competitive strategy): Bewear differentiates itself from other Fighting-type wallbreakers with its defensive presence; its solid bulk combined with Fluffy allows Bewear to switch into physically offensive threats such as Golisopod, Tyrantrum, and Drapion. Bewear also sports an amazing Attack stat and a boosting option in Swords Dance to punch sizable holes in any Pokemon that doesn't resist its STAB combination. Unfortunately, Bewear's lacking Speed and Special Defense and Fluffy giving it an additional Fire-type weakness mean that it rarely gets the opportunity to sweep and invites in faster threats such as Salazzle, Mega Blastoise, and Necrozma. Bewear can also be worn down quickly by repeatedly switching into resisted attacks and entry hazards, Toxic damage, and recoil from Double-Edge. It can mitigate this somewhat by running Drain Punch, however. Despite its unique defensive traits, Bewear faces heavy competition from other Fighting-types in RU such as Machamp, Passimian, and Hariyama, as they all sport superior coverage options, Speed tiers, and Special Defense. Double-Edge is Bewear's strongest Normal-type STAB attack, with recoil as its only drawback. Superpower scores easier KOs against Pokemon like Diancie, Bronzong, and Stealth Rock Metagross after a boost. Shadow Claw allows Bewear to hit Ghost-types such as Mismagius, Palossand, and Alolan Marowak. Drain Punch is not as strong as Superpower, but it can let Bewear heal itself after taking damage from entry hazards, resisted attacks, or Double-Edge recoil. An Adamant nature gives Bewear the most wallbreaking power possible, but a Jolly nature can be used to outpace certain variants of Mantine and Metagross. Normalium Z powers up Double-Edge into Breakneck Blitz, which does not inflict recoil damage and allows Bewear to OHKO bulkier Pokemon like Cresselia, Slowbro, and Mandibuzz after a boost. Silk Scarf is a viable alternative if a Z-Crystal is being used elsewhere, as it gives Double-Edge more consistent power and can allow unboosted Double-Edge to potentially OHKO Florges after Stealth Rock damage. Fluffy is an excellent ability that eases setup while also allowing Bewear to actively check certain physical threats such as Barbaracle and Tyrantrum, although it leaves Bewear threatened out by most Fire-types like Salazzle. Thanks to Fluffy, Bewear can easily come in against physically offensive Pokemon like Barbaracle, Golisopod, and Rhyperior. It can also be brought in safely with the help of a pivot or after a teammate has fainted. Once in battle, Bewear can begin wallbreaking early- and mid-game or even sweep late-game, assuming all of its checks and counters have been dealt with. Fluffy can also allow Bewear to tank moves such as Virizion's Close Combat if needed, but don't let Bewear take too much damage if it is needed to check threats like Snorlax long-term. Bewear should begin setting up with Swords Dance after it has forced out the foe; then, it can threaten bulkier switch-ins such as Slowbro, Cresselia, and Donphan with its Z-Move. However, if a more offensive check like Noivern, Gardevoir, or Nidoqueen is expected to switch in, attacking immediately, even with Breakneck Blitz, can heavily dent or KO these threats and make Bewear much harder to revenge kill. Ghost-types can switch into either STAB move with no issue, so predicting this play with Shadow Claw can open up Bewear to use its stronger STAB attacks. Stealth Rock support from Pokemon like Metagross, Registeel, and Rhyperior assists in many of Bewear's KOs, and these Pokemon can also alleviate Bewear's weakness to Fairy-, Flying-, and Fire-type Pokemon. Bewear can often struggle with Psychic-types such as Cresselia and Gardevoir, as they handle Superpower easily and can tank unboosted Normal-type moves, so partners such as Mismagius, Houndoom, and Drapion can assist Bewear by taking advantage of Psychic-types as well as Ghost-types. Houndoom and Drapion further assist Bewear with Pursuit. Pokemon like Shaymin and Ribombee can threaten physical sponges like Donphan and Tangela and bait in Registeel and certain Rock-types, which can give Bewear an opening to wallbreak. The former also provides Healing Wish support, which can give Bewear another chance to wallbreak if it has taken too much damage early-game. Bewear's vulnerability to many faster threats such as Salazzle, Noivern, and Mega Blastoise means that it appreciates partners such as Aerodactyl, Tyrantrum, and Mega Sceptile, which are capable of offensively checking such Pokemon. Cleaners like Zygarde-10% and Lycanroc-D are capable of capitalizing on Bewear's ability to wear down or remove Pokemon like Donphan and Golisopod. Pivots such as Flygon, Noivern, and Raikou can safely bring Bewear into battle so it can begin wallbreaking. Return is a fairly powerful Normal-type option with no drawbacks, but Double-Edge guarantees the 2HKO versus Slowbro and the OHKO against Florges and bulkier Noivern variants at the cost of inflicting recoil. Superpower is Bewear's strongest Fighting-type STAB option with the most reliable damage output, and the stat drops from using the move are often not a big hindrance, as Bewear is likely to switch out after getting a KO regardless. Shadow Claw enables Bewear to avoid getting walled by Ghost-types such as Mismagius and Alolan Marowak. Drain Punch gives Bewear a Fighting-type option that doesn't lower its stats, and it can also keep Bewear healthy in order to tank more hits. Facade can also be used to let Bewear be threatening even after a Scald burn, and it can punish bulkier foes for afflicting Bewear with Toxic. An Adamant nature maximizes Bewear's damage output, with Jolly only being useful for outpacing a few Pokemon like Mantine and Jolly Pangoro. Choice Band gives Bewear great immediate power and capitalizes on its spammable STAB combination. Fluffy enables Bewear to check and threaten out more physical attackers, which lets it potentially punch a hole in the opposing team, but it does leave Bewear revenge killed more easily by Fire-types such as Salazzle and Houndoom. Choice Band Bewear is capable of dealing great immediate damage without requiring a turn to set up, which can allow it to threaten Pokemon like Metagross and Machamp much more easily in order to get more chances to wallbreak. Bring Bewear into battle by switching into resisted hits such as Golisopod's First Impression, after a teammate has fainted, on a double switch, or with the help of a pivot. Avoiding certain attacks like Knock Off can allow Bewear to bluff a Swords Dance set more easily, often dissuading the use of Protect from Pokemon such as Registeel and Vaporeon, which can otherwise safely scout what move Bewear locks itself into. While Bewear's bulk alongside Fluffy can allow it to take a hit from Pokemon like Metagross and Machamp, it may need to stay healthy in order to switch into other threats such as Golisopod and Tyrantrum. Entry hazard support from setters such as Necrozma, Roserade, and Forretress helps Bewear achieve various KOs. Necrozma and Roserade can also pressure certain physical walls such as opposing Forretress and Tangela, while Volt Switch from a partnering Forretress can get Bewear in safely. While Bewear can nail Psychic-types on the switch with Double-Edge, Pokemon capable of checking them like Golisopod and Houndoom are still appreciated, as Psychic-types can still pivot into Superpower and threaten Bewear if brought in safely. Pokemon such as Noivern and Dragalge can help check various threats to Bewear like Roserade and Salazzle while also drawing in Snorlax and Registeel, which creates an opening for Bewear to wallbreak. Dragalge is also able to absorb Toxic Spikes, which otherwise can wear Bewear down much more quickly. Cleaners such as Barbaracle and Shaymin appreciate Bewear's wallbreaking prowess and ability to pressure threats like Golisopod and Registeel, with Shaymin being capable of supporting Bewear with Healing Wish as well. Ghost-types are an issue even with proper coverage, as they are immune to both STAB moves, and locking Bewear into Shadow Claw can generate free turns for certain threats such as Barbaracle and Virizion, so having a Pursuit trapper such as Drapion, Houndoom, or Metagross could help ease Bewear's time wallbreaking. Bulk Up alongside Substitute and Leftovers can make Bewear more difficult to take down with physical attacks and can punish passive Pokemon like Bronzong and Registeel, but it loses out on the raw power of Swords Dance and a Z-Move. Taunt can also harass defensive Pokemon by preventing status and recovery, but it requires sacrificing a coverage move or Swords Dance.
Bewear (SS competitive strategy): Bewear is an incredibly strong wallbreaker that uses Fluffy and its typing to take advantage of staples like Golisopod, Steelix, and Registeel. However, its low Speed and Special Defense leaves it easy pickings for common faster special attackers such as Noivern, Nidoqueen, and Xurkitree. Drain Punch mitigates damage from tanking physical attacks and recoil from using Double-Edge. At +2 Attack, Close Combat gets OHKOs that Drain Punch misses out on such as against Steelix and Diancie after Stealth Rock. Darkest Lariat covers Ghost-types like Chandelure, Mimikyu, and Dhelmise while also providing a hard-hitting move without recoil for Psychic-types like Reuniclus and Celebi. Chople Berry prevents faster threats such as Heracross and Lucario from easily revenge killing Bewear, while Silk Scarf boosts Double-Edge for an almost guaranteed OHKO on Reuniclus and Galarian Weezing after Stealth Rock. Jolly is the preferred nature to outspeed Pangoro and Choice Band Metagross. Silk Scarf variants can run an Adamant nature to OHKO Reuniclus after Swords Dance while ensuring the OHKO on Galarian Weezing after Stealth Rock. VoltTurn support is invaluable for Bewear, as it often struggles to safely switch in. Raikou, Noivern, and Crobat are notable examples, as they can provide a free switch against Pokemon that Bewear takes advantage of such as Steelix and Registeel. Stealth Rock support is crucial for important KOs like against Galarian Weezing with +2 Silk Scarf-boosted Double-Edge. Diancie can check Fire-types such as Entei and Chandelure, while Nidoqueen can check other revenge killers like Xurkitree and Raikou. Steel-types such as Metagross, Registeel, and Klefki also set up hazards and deal with major nuisances for Bewear like Togekiss, Noivern, Crobat, and Gardevoir. Klefki is also notable for providing Thunder Wave to slow down faster threats like Noivern. Other Spikers such as Roserade and Golisopod help wear down walls while the latter provides additional support in Knock Off. Roserade also checks Electric-types trying to revenge kill Bewear such as Raikou and Xurkitree. Pokemon such as Flygon, Noivern, and Sharpedo appreciate Bewear denting Fairy-types like Togekiss and Galarian Weezing. Bewear is an excellent Knock Off absorber and can come in on Knock Off users trying to remove valuable items from Pokemon like Togekiss, Noivern, and Reuniclus. Without wasting a turn, Choice Band Bewear utilizes its Fluffy ability and typing to switch into common Pokemon such as Golisopod and immediately fire off incredibly strong attacks. However, as a wallbreaker, it is greatly hindered by its prediction-reliant nature, and with its average Speed, faster special attackers such as Noivern, Togekiss, and Toxtricity can effortlessly revenge kill it. The recovery from Drain Punch prevents Bewear from quickly getting worn down from tanking physical attacks and using Double-Edge. Darkest Lariat nails Ghost-types such as Chandelure, Mimikyu, and Jellicent. A Jolly nature is used to outspeed Pangoro. VoltTurn support is invaluable for Bewear, as it often struggles to safely switch in. Raikou, Noivern, and Xurkitree are notable examples, as they can provide a free switch against Pokemon that Bewear takes advantage of such as Assault Vest Reuniclus, Steelix, and Registeel. Steel-types such as Metagross, Registeel, and Klefki deal with a major nuisance for Bewear in Flying-types like Togekiss, Noivern, and Crobat. Klefki is also notable for providing Spikes support and Thunder Wave to slow down faster threats like Noivern. Spikes support is appreciated to punish attempts to pivot around Bewear's Choice-locked attacks. Spikers such as Roserade and Golisopod also provide great additional support. Golisopod can remove Heavy-Duty Boots from shared switch-ins such as Crobat and Togekiss. Roserade, on the other hand, checks Electric-types trying to revenge kill Bewear such as Raikou and Xurkitree. Pokemon such as Flygon, Noivern, and Sharpedo appreciate Bewear denting Fairy-types like Togekiss and Galarian Weezing.
Noivern (XY competitive strategy): Noivern has fantastic base 123 Speed and base 97 Special Attack that allows it to function as a moderate wallbreaker and offense killer. Its good offensive typing allows Noivern to work well with synergistic offensive cores. It also resists the common Fire / Water / Grass cores that run amok in UnderUsed. Noivern has utility value in Taunt and Roost. Noivern might seem outclassed by other Dragon-type wallbreakers, but its Speed gives it the opportunity to run an effective Choice Specs set and destroy unprepared teams. Furthermore, because of its access to Taunt and Roost, Noivern has more surprise value than most other offensive Dragon-types in the tier. Draco Meteor is the classic go-to wallbreaking Dragon-type move once Fairy-type Pokemon such as Sylveon have been dealt with. Hurricane is another powerful STAB move, though it can miss. Flamethrower offers coverage on Steel-types such as Mega Aggron and Doublade, while Air Slash offers a reliable secondary STAB option with a 30% chance to make the foe flinch. Switcheroo lets Noivern cripple a check or counter that attempts to take a wallbreaking move, while U-turn gives Noivern the chance to further retain momentum if it finds the matchup to be poor. A spread of 252 SpA / 252 Spe gives Noivern the most out of this set, allowing it to his as hard and fast as possible. 4 SpD EVs prevent the rare Download Porygon-Z from getting a Special Attack boost. Choice Specs allows Noivern to wallbreak against almost all non-resisting Pokemon that do not have reliable recovery. Infiltrator completely voids the usefulness of the foe's Substitutes. Noivern is best sent in on switches that help retain momentum. Choice Specs Noivern is not like Choice Specs Hydreigon in that it can simply spam Draco Meteor. Rather, Noivern shines with its wallbreaking abilities when it is used as a cleanup sweeper or opportunistic stallbreaker. Do not use this Noivern as a lead. Instead, use it opportunistically as a mid-game wallbreaker or late-game sweeper. This set also finds niche viability on rain teams due to perfectly accurate Hurricanes. This set pairs fantastically with Wish Vaporeon as well as bulky U-turn and Volt Switch users, as they create opportunities for Noivern to wallbreak. Florges and Whimsicott are good teammates that can prevent Choice Scarf Hydreigon from doing significant damage to your team. Chandelure can help as a spinblocker and provides an answer to Steel-types that Noivern generally struggles with. Additionally, Noivern appreciates Rapid Spin or Defog support. Noivern likes entry hazards on the opposing end of the field too, though, as Noivern forces a lot of switches. Draco Meteor takes care of all frail attackers while managing to snag some 2HKOs on Pokemon such as Donphan. Flamethrower is a good coverage move against many Steel-types, especially Forretress. Air Slash is a reliable STAB move with a 30% chance to flinch. Taunt prevents entry hazards from being set up on your side of the field. It also takes some pressure off prediction when dealing with setup sweepers such as CroCune. Roost is for added longevity. The EV spread provides offensive pressure against entry hazard stackers and status users. Leftovers provides passive recovery and is a good option alongside Roost. Life Orb is another option for making Noivern's STAB attacks hit harder, scoring some extra 2HKOs on Pokemon such as Roserade and Shaymin and scoring OHKOs on Pokemon such as Absol or Machamp. Infiltrator completely voids the usefulness of the opposing Pokemon's Substitute. This set serves as a reasonable anti-lead, as it is effective against Forretress and other entry hazard setters. Noivern appreciates Pokemon that help retain momentum, giving it the opportunity to wallbreak. Despite its effective role as an anti-lead, it can be saved as a late-game sweeper. Most of Noivern's problems come from its Flying / Dragon typing, therefore, Noivern enjoys support from Pokemon such as Wish Vaporeon, as they can relieve the need to predict. Chandelure can help as a spinblocker and provides an answer to the Steel-types that Noivern generally struggles with. Further, Noivern appreciates Rapid Spin or Defog support. Noivern appreciates entry hazards on the opposing end of the field too, though, as it forces a lot of switches, so Rapid Spin support is preferred. One can opt for a bulkier spread, focusing more on HP as opposed to Special Attack. In this instance, make sure Noivern is always left with an odd HP number (such as 351) in order to switch in on Stealth Rock as many times as possible. Focus Blast is an option against Steel-types, but it is generally inferior to Flamethrower due to its unreliable accuracy. Boomburst is a reliable powerful non-STAB move for the Choice Specs set. Expert Belt offers a little bit more power against Steel-type switch-ins, and it also provides a Choice item bluff. Draco Plate is another option that is useful for bluffing a Choice item while hitting 20% harder off the bat. Super Fang is another option for the Taunt + Roost set, allowing Noivern to surprise common switch-ins such as Florges and Blissey.
Noivern (SM competitive strategy): Noivern's fantastic Speed tier, access to Taunt and Roost, and decent bulk allow it to act as an effective revenge killer and stallbreaker. Noivern's Speed in particular allows it to outpace the majority of unboosted Pokemon in RarelyUsed, including threats like Virizion and Salazzle. The defensive perks of Noivern's Dragon / Flying typing, notably resistances to Fighting-, Fire-, Bug-, and Grass-type moves, let it act as a workable switch-in to common offensive Pokemon, such as Virizion, Arcanine, Golisopod, and Roserade, and force prediction from stronger wallbreakers like Flame Orb Machamp. Noivern has a fully customizable fourth moveslot with options such as Super Fang, U-turn, Flamethrower, and Draco Meteor, which allows it to improve bad matchups. For example, if a wallbreaking teammate such as Choice Band Pangoro needs opportunities to break defensive cores, Noivern can opt for U-turn to give it free turns. Choice Scarf Noivern is one of the best revenge killers in the tier, able to handle extremely quick setup sweepers such as Shell Smash Barbaracle and Rock Polish Tyrantrum while still providing utility in U-turn and Switcheroo. However, Noivern's bulk, while great for an offensive Pokemon, only allows it to barely avoid KOs from attacks like Virizion's Stone Edge, so any residual damage from sources such as Toxic and Stealth Rock severely cuts into its ability to switch into threats. Taunt allows Noivern to deal with defensive Pokemon like Mantine and prevent Pokemon like Shell Smash Barbaracle from setting up. Roost is important to keep Noivern healthy so it can beat defensive threats and pivot into offensive threats like Shaymin and Choice Specs Ninetales throughout the game. U-turn lets Noivern pivot out of walls that it struggles with such as Gyro Ball Bronzong and bring in a threatening wallbreaker to deal with them. Super Fang deals great initial damage to Steel-, Electric-, and Rock-type switch-ins like Metagross, Assault Vest Raikou, and Tyrantrum. Draco Meteor allows Noivern to nail offensive Flying-resistant Pokemon such as Tyrantrum and Mega Ampharos on the switch. Flamethrower allows Noivern to deal with more offensive Steel-types that would otherwise check it such as Metagross. When used with Rocky Helmet, it also lets it always beat defensive Steel-types such as Registeel. Infiltrator gives Noivern a way to handle Pokemon like SubSeed Shaymin more easily and improve its matchup against dual screens teams. One can run a spread with heavy HP investment, but it'll severely cut into Noivern's ability to revenge kill and remove threats. For example, Noivern can't revenge kill Salazzle with Stealth Rock up or even beat Pokemon like Flame Orb Machamp and Roserade one-on-one without Special Attack investment. Rocky Helmet on Flamethrower sets improves Noivern's mediocre matchup against Steel-types like Registeel. Don't switch directly into Toxic users like Registeel, as being inflicted with status heavily compromises Noivern's ability to stallbreak. Make use of Noivern's excellent Speed tier and plethora of resistances by revenge killing setup Pokemon like Virizion and checking Pokemon like Golisopod. Make use of U-turn to bring in wallbreakers such as Flame Orb Machamp and Taunt + Roost to stop walls such as Bronzong from making any headway. Slow, powerful wallbreakers such as Flame Orb Machamp and Choice Band Metagross appreciate free turns given by Noivern's U-turn. Pursuit users like Drapion and Metagross can come in through U-turn and remove Noivern checks such as Bronzong. Defensive Pokemon like Registeel act as switch-ins to faster threats such as Ribombee and Choice Scarf Gardevoir for Noivern. There are also offensive teammates that turn some of Noivern's revenge killers into liabilities. For example, Barbaracle can set up on revenge killers like Choice Scarf Gardevoir and Tyrantrum and become a massive threat late-game. Entry hazard removal in the form of teammates such as Mega Blastoise and Mantine is important, as Stealth Rock wears Noivern down very quickly. U-turn is great for generating momentum, giving strong wallbreakers like Roserade chances to safely switch in. Switcheroo allows Noivern to cripple defensive switch-ins such as Bronzong and Registeel. Infiltrator is fantastic for dealing with setup Pokemon like Barbaracle on dual screens teams, bypassing the defensive boosts of Reflect and Light Screen. Use Noivern as a revenge killer to boosted sweepers like Barbaracle and Dragon Dance Zygarde-10%. Use U-turn to generate momentum by pivoting out of switch-ins like Bronzong. Be cautious when using Draco Meteor; the Special Attack drop could cost you greatly, as it gives setup sweepers such as Ninetales free turns. Similarly, don't use Switcheroo unless all sweepers are removed, Noivern is faster than them without Choice Scarf, or you have other means of checking them. Wallbreakers like Choice Specs Gardevoir and Choice Band Tyrantrum make use of the free turns Noivern's U-turn generates. Setup sweepers can make use of free turns given by Switcheroo. For example, Substitute Barbaracle can easily set up on a Choice-locked Registeel. Entry hazard removal from Pokemon like Mandibuzz and Mega Blastoise is very important so that Noivern can check setup sweepers like Dragon Dance Zygarde-10%, which can hit it with Extreme Speed. Life Orb makes Noivern's Draco Meteor much more potent. For example, Raikou can't switch into it, and Barbaracle is KOed after slight chip damage. Flyinium Z improves Noivern's viability as a revenge killer and gives it a stronger offensive presence, notably allowing it to OHKO Salazzle and remove Mega Blastoise after two rounds of Stealth Rock damage. More offensive sets using items like Life Orb and Choice Specs can immediately pressure bulky offense teams using less sturdy Flying-resistant Pokemon like Metagross. Protect can be used to scout against Choice-locked attackers such as Choice Scarf Gardevoir. A spread of 184 HP / 116 SpD / 208 Spe can be used on Taunt + Roost Noivern to always take Hidden Power Ice from Choice Specs Ninetales and Life Orb Shaymin while still outpacing Salazzle.
Noivern (SS competitive strategy): Noivern provides excellent utility to any team as an offensive pivot or Defogger. Its typing and sky-high Speed tier let it check and revenge kill a vast array of common Pokemon such as Heracross and Celebi. Noivern excels as a pivot, providing frequent free switches for wallbreakers while forming potent VoltTurn cores with Xurkitree, Raikou, and Flygon. As a Defogger, Noivern has some of the better matchups against common entry hazard setters, being able to threaten Golisopod, Steelix, and Roserade but struggling with Stakataka, Diancie, and Registeel. Noivern's defensive utility is greatly diminished by its reliance on Heavy-Duty Boots, as it can't switch in on Pokemon such as Incineroar, Seismitoad, and Golisopod without the risk of getting hit by Knock Off. Furthermore, Noivern's mediocre Special Attack means it barely scratches special walls like Diancie, Assault Vest Reuniclus, and Umbreon while also leaving it as setup fodder for Calm Mind Reuniclus, Suicune, and Nasty Plot Togekiss. However, Noivern can circumvent its switch-ins by providing a free switch for powerful wallbreakers with U-turn. Draco Meteor threatens common Pokemon such as Flygon, Xurkitree, and Chandelure. Flamethrower hits Steel-types such as Steelix and Metagross for good damage while chipping away at sturdier Steel-types like Registeel. U-turn takes advantage of Noivern's switch-ins to provide a free switch for its teammates. Noivern can opt for Defog if the team is in need of entry hazard removal. Heavy-Duty Boots is necessary because Noivern is held down by Stealth Rock otherwise. With Infiltrator, Noivern can ignore Substitute from certain Raikou and Chandelure sets. Wallbreakers such as Pangoro, Lucario, and Entei appreciate the free switch provided by U-turn and take advantage of common switch-ins to Noivern like Assault Vest Reuniclus, Togekiss, and Umbreon. Noivern appreciates VoltTurn partners such as Xurkitree, Flygon, and Rotom-C, as they can keep up momentum against its switch-ins. Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Xurkitree and Gardevoir get ravaged by entry hazards and therefore appreciate Noivern as a Defogger. Noivern does next to nothing to Fairy-types like Togekiss and Diancie, so Fairy-type answers like Metagross, Steelix, and Registeel are crucial. Pokemon to take advantage of Fairy-types like Roserade, Nidoqueen, and Lucario are especially appreciated by U-turn Noivern. Fighting- and Ground-types like Heracross, Pangoro, and Golurk help deal with bulky Steel-types such as Registeel, Stakataka, and Steelix. Noivern can struggle as a team's sole Fighting-type check due to its weakness to Knock Off. Therefore, Pokemon such as Reuniclus, Nidoqueen, and Togekiss can handle Fighting-types in place of Noivern. For similar reasons, Knock Off absorbers such as Swords Dance Bewear, Galarian Weezing, and Colbur Berry Reuniclus make for great teammates. Frisk can be chosen to scout items due to the situational use of Infiltrator. Toxic can cripple common switch-ins to Noivern such as Togekiss, Assault Vest Reuniclus, and Diancie. With Toxic, Noivern can also act as a hard stop to Calm Mind + Substitute Suicune thanks to Infiltrator. However, using Toxic means giving up on the great utility provided by U-turn or Defog, which is difficult to justify on most teams. A stallbreaker set with Taunt prevents Bronzong and Registeel from setting Stealth Rock and walls like Milotic, Togekiss, and Snorlax from healing. Generally, Hurricane is the preferred STAB option alongside Taunt because it gives better odds of beating Calm Mind Suicune. Switcheroo can be run alongside Choice Scarf to cripple Noivern's switch-ins such as Registeel, Assault Vest Reuniclus, and Diancie. Swapping items with bulky set-up Pokemon like Snorlax, Reuniclus, and Suicune neutralizes their attempts at a sweep. Noivern is also the fastest Choice Scarf user in RU and can even outspeed and revenge kill +2 Cloyster. However, Choice Scarf sets are greatly limited by Stealth Rock. Rocky Helmet punishes U-turn pivots like Crobat, Flygon, and Celebi. It can also be used alongside Taunt to always beat Registeel. The big downfall with Rocky Helmet is that it also leaves Noivern vulnerable to Stealth Rock.
Noivern (SV competitive strategy): Noivern swoops into RU as a premier speedy Pokemon that can fill both offensive and defensive roles. Due to Noivern's resistance to common offensive types like Fire, Water, and Fighting, it can be a great defensive sponge by switching into both special and physical attackers such as Volcanion and Gallade. It can then use this opportunity to remove entry hazards with Defog, chunk a switch-in with either Super Fang or Draco Meteor, or pivot on switch-ins with U-turn. It can outspeed and force out Pokemon such as Cyclizar, Gengar, and Raikou, threatening them with Draco Meteor. Noivern can keep itself healthy with Roost, allowing it to come in multiple times per game in order to do its job. However, Noivern struggles with common Choice Scarf users such as Gardevoir and Galarian Zapdos, as they can outspeed and deal massive damage to it. Noivern can also struggle a lot with Fairy-types such as Mimikyu and Gardevoir, which can switch into its main STAB option in Draco Meteor and hit it super effectively. Noivern also immensely struggles with bulky Pokemon such as Umbreon, Jirachi, and Registeel, as they can easily switch into it and either make progress against it or set up on it. Draco Meteor provides Noivern with tremendous breaking power, though it does allow Fairy-types such as Gardevoir safe entry points against it; alternatively, Hurricane can be used to hit these Fairy-types, though they are quite scarce and it comes at the cost of less immediate power and unreliable accuracy. Flamethrower melts the pesky Steel-types that resist Noivern's STAB attacks, like Jirachi, Magnezone, and Registeel. U-turn can be used to form VoltTurn cores and provide safe pivots into teammates like Galarian Zapdos; Taunt is an alternative move that can stop setup attempts from Pokemon like Reuniclus and Slowbro, recovery attempts, and entry hazard stacking from walls like Gastrodon and Hippowdon. Roost gives Noivern the longevity needed to stick around and dish out damage while checking big threats like Basculegion-F and Volcanion. Frisk can be used to scout for items, such as Choice items on Pokemon like Mamoswine and Gengar. Infiltrator allows Noivern to hit Pokemon that use Substitute, such as Raikou and Suicune, to prevent them from using Calm Mind freely. Tera Steel can be used to flip the weakness to Dragon, which helps against Hisuian Goodra and opposing Noivern, while providing valuable resistances to Fairy-type attacks from Gardevoir and Cresselia. Tera Fire also provides a Fairy resistance and can bolster the damage of Flamethrower, allowing Noivern to break through Jirachi and Magnezone more effectively. Tera Fairy provides a Dragon immunity, which helps against Cyclizar and opposing Noivern, while maintaining the Bug and Fighting resistances to still check Mienshao. Tera Fairy also provides a key resistance to Dark-type attacks like Knock Off and Sucker Punch, making matchups into Bisharp and Krookodile more comfortable. Tera Water is a fine pick for Noivern, as it maintains the Fire and Water resistances to check Volcanion while providing an Ice resistance to more effectively deal with Mamoswine. Offensive pivot Noivern is a great choice on balance and bulky offense teams that need to shore up their matchups into one of the biggest threats in the tier, Volcanion. Teammates like Talonflame are much appreciated, as they can provide entry hazard removal and check physical attackers like Bisharp and Galarian Zapdos, threatening to burn either with Flame Body or Will-O-Wisp. In return, Noivern can check Volcanion for Talonflame. Physical wallbreakers that can use the safe entry points provided by U-turn Noivern, such as Crawdaunt and Mamoswine, are valuable to help break through walls such as Chansey and Hisuian Goodra, making Noivern more imposing with its own strong attacks. Noivern appreciates its own hazard support from teammates like Hippowdon and Jirachi, which can help rack up chip damage while Noivern uses either U-turn to pivot between teammates or Taunt to prevent recovery. Noivern is a great member of VoltTurn cores, partnering with powerful wallbreakers like Magnezone and Mienshao to keep the opposition from getting comfortable. Steel-type teammates like Empoleon, Jirachi, and Registeel are valuable to check Dragon- and Fairy-types that can threaten Noivern, like Hisuian Goodra, Alolan Ninetales, and Gardevoir. Draco Meteor allows Noivern to dent naturally bulky Pokemon such as Slowbro and Hippowdon even without Special Attack investment. Hurricane can be used over Draco Meteor; however, it is less reliable and doesn't threaten Cyclizar as much. Super Fang allows Noivern to make incredible progress against common switch-ins like Jirachi and Registeel. Taunt allows that damage to stick, preventing recovery attempts from Pokemon such as Empoleon and Umbreon while also preventing Thunder Wave from the likes of Slowbro. Defog provides excellent team support, preventing teammates from being chipped by entry hazards. Psychic Noise prevents any form of recovery and does decent damage to Pokemon such as Gastrodon and Volcanion, though it notably fails against Umbreon. Roost allows Noivern to stay healthy throughout a game to make more progress with a combination of Super Fang and Taunt or Psychic Noise. Tera Steel turns Noivern's Fairy-type weakness into a resistance, allowing it to check threats such as Gardevoir and Cresselia. Tera Fairy gives it a Dark-type resistance and a Dragon-type immunity, allowing it to emergency check threats such as Choice Scarf Krookodile and Choice-locked Hisuian Goodra in a pinch. Tera Water allows Noivern to check Mamoswine and Alolan Ninetales as well, while retaining the ability to check Fire- and Water-types such as Volcanion and Barraskewda. Noivern fits well on balance and bulky offense teams, working as a crucial defensive piece and checking Pokemon like Volcanion. It loves partnering with entry hazard setters such as Hippowdon, Krookodile, Chesnaught, and Quagsire to further suffocate foes with Taunt or Psychic Noise. Noivern also partners well with Reuniclus, as they form a tough Fighting-resistant core that wears the opponent down with entry hazards and Psychic Noise. It also loves partnering with Steel-type Pokemon such as Jirachi and Registeel, checking common Fire- and Fighting- types like Volcanion and Mienshao for them, while they cover its Ice and Fairy weaknesses. Choice Scarf users like Gardevoir, Krookodile, and Galarian Zapdos enjoy Noivern's ability to chip the opposition so that they can clean up with ease. Fighting-types like Mienshao and Galarian Zapdos enjoy Noivern's ability to batter away at Fighting-resistant foes like Gardevoir. Similarly, special attackers like Armarouge and Gengar really enjoy Taunt Noivern's ability to shut down Umbreon. Rotom-H and Slowbro are great teammates that check Mamoswine, one of the biggest threats to Noivern. Choice Specs with Boomburst and Tera Normal is an option on Noivern, allowing it to do massive damage to the opposing team once Steel- and Ghost-types have been removed. Switcheroo can be used alongside Choice Specs to cripple defensive Pokemon that Noivern can't break through, such as Chansey or Empoleon. Air Slash is a much more reliable STAB option than Hurricane, though it is much weaker and can fail to 2HKO even Pokemon with mediocre special bulk like Krookodile.
Obstagoon (SS competitive strategy): Obstagoon's unique Normal / Dark typing makes it immune to Ghost- and Psychic-type attacks, giving it a unique niche as the only fully evolved Pokemon immune to Calyrex-S's STAB moves. Its decent Attack stat and Guts + STAB-boosted Facade give it a powerful offensive presence; coverage moves such as Knock Off, Switcheroo, and Ice Punch enable it to further threaten metagame staples such as Yveltal, Necrozma-DM, and Lunala. Obstagoon is severely limited by its susceptibility to chip damage from burn and entry hazards. In addition, its lack of useful resistances beyond its niche and a middling Speed means it will be is easily OHKOed or 2HKOed by most threats in the tier. Thus, it faces competition with most physical attackers in the tier, such as Marshadow, Zekrom, and Rayquaza, which will find more opportunities to switch in and threaten the opposing team. Obstagoon also cannot function as a team's sole Ghost-type answer and as such constricts teambuilding. Knock Off has a high chance to 2HKO specially defensive Necrozma-DM, OHKOes Calyrex-S, and has the great advantage of removing the foes' precious items, such as Ho-Oh and Yveltal's Heavy-Duty Boots, leaving them susceptible to Stealth Rock. Facade becomes extremely powerful once Obstagoon is burned, 2HKOing most foes that don't resist it, such as Eternatus, Yveltal, defensive Xerneas, and physically defensive Ho-Oh. Switcheroo lets it exchange its Flame Orb after it has been activated for a more useful item such as Leftovers, which mitigates the damage Obstagoon takes from its burn, greatly increasing its longevity. Meanwhile, Obstagoon can Bulk Up against Ghost-types that fail to damage it like non-Focus Sash Calyrex-S, physically offensive Giratina-O, and Shedinja, which makes it extremely menacing against most physical walls; at +1, Ice Punch OHKOes Zygarde before Power Construct, and Fire Punch Obstagoon OHKOes Ferrothorn. Obstagoon can opt for Parting Shot to become an offensive pivot. An Adamant nature maximizes its offensive presence, and once boosted, allows it to OHKO Lunala with Knock Off and offers a decent chance to OHKO Yveltal and specially defensive Necrozma-DM with a burn-boosted Facade or Knock Off, respectively. A Jolly nature allows it to Speed tie with Rayquaza and always outrun many foes with less than 95 base Speed like Groudon, Kyogre, Zekrom, and Ho-Oh; however, Obstagoon prefers the consistent wallbreaking power that an Adamant nature provides. Obstagoon is mostly used on bulky offense teams, where its ability to threaten defensive staples like Xerneas, Lunala, Kyogre, and Yveltal is appreciated by offensive cleaners like Bulk Up Marshadow, Dragon Dance Zekrom, and Dragon Dance Necrozma-DM. Also, they break through Eternatus with more ease than Obstagoon, and in return, Obstagoon can either give its teammates more setup opportunities with Parting Shot or wear down its teammates' checks with its STAB moves. It also serves as the best answer to Choice-locked Calyrex-S; on top of being immune to both its Psychic- and Ghost-type moves, Calyrex-S will be crippled by Flame Orb if it uses Trick on Obstagoon, while Obstagoon can later Trick its received Choice item back to another foe thanks to Switcheroo. While using Obstagoon, it's extremely important to play cautiously around Knock Off users before it has activated its Flame Orb, as Obstagoon is dead weight prior to activation. Yveltal is able to choose between more offensive sets featuring Life Orb, Hone Claws, or even a Choice item because Obstagoon's presence relieves some of the pressure on it. Obstagoon is hindered by entry hazards, so it appreciates Defog support: Ho-Oh, in particular, melts entry hazard setters like Ferrothorn and Necrozma-DM and can Thunder Wave foes like Eternatus and Yveltal, which lets Obstagoon outspeed and 2HKO them reliably with Facade. Wish support from Clefable and Blissey vastly increase Obstagoon's longevity, letting it break through the opposing team more reliably. Blissey can also Thunder Wave foes like Marshadow and Yveltal on an anticipated switch in, which Obstagoon can capitalizes on to KO them. Glare Zygarde is another great paralysis spreader that switches into Marshadow for Obstagoon, while Substitute + Dragon Dance Zygarde takes advantage of burned foes like Yveltal, Necrozma-DM, and Groudon to use Substitute. SubSeed Calyrex-S and SubSeed Calyrex-I take advantage of burned foes like Yveltal and Necrozma-DM to put immense pressure on the opposing team; also, they can OHKO Eternatus with their STAB moves. The latter especially likes the support Obstagoon offers in dealing with opposing Calyrex-S. Obstagoon can also be used in Sticky Web teams, which make up for its middling Speed and makes a Guts-boosted Obstagoon extremely difficult to stop. In return, Obstagoon is an excellent Calyrex-S switch-in, one of the best anti-offense tools which can easily revenge kill Obstagoon's teammates. It also threatens the most common Defog users in the tier, such as Yveltal, Ho-Oh, and Lunala, but can't switch into them repeatedly. An alternative EV spread of 168 HP / 248 Atk / 92 Spe lets Obstagoon survive a +2 Draining Kiss from Calyrex-S and increases its overall bulk while outrunning Adamant Dracovish, but the loss in Speed is detrimental and makes it potentially slower than common threats like offensive Ho-Oh, offensive Calm Mind Kyogre, Groudon, and Zygarde. Fling can be added to this spread to offer a chance for Obstagoon to take on Focus Sash Calyrex-S on one-on-one, which has a 75% to OHKO Calyrex-S thanks to the burn damage.
