Master Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Catches a wild Pokémon without fail. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. The best BALL that catches a POKéMON without fail. The best BALL with the ultimate performance. It will catch any wild POKéMON without fail. The best Ball with the ultimate level of performance. It will catch any wild Pokémon without fail. The best Poké Ball with the ultimate level of performance. With it, you will catch any wild Pokémon without fail.
Ultra Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 2×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A better BALL with a higher catch rate than a GREAT BALL. A very high-grade BALL that offers a higher POKéMON catch rate than a GREAT BALL. An ultra-performance Ball that provides a higher Pokémon catch rate than a Great Ball. An ultra-high-performance Poké Ball that provides a higher success rate for catching Pokémon than a Great Ball.
Great Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1.5×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A good BALL with a higher catch rate than a POKé BALL. A good, quality BALL that offers a higher POKéMON catch rate than a standard POKé BALL. A good, high-performance Ball that provides a higher Pokémon catch rate than a standard Poké Ball. A good, high-performance Poké Ball that provides a higher Pokémon catch rate than a standard Poké Ball can. A good, high-performance Poké Ball that provides a higher Pokémon catch rate than a standard Poké Ball. A good, high-performance Poké Ball that provides a higher success rate for catching Pokémon than a standard Poké Ball.
Poke Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A tool used for catching wild POKéMON. A BALL thrown to catch a wild POKéMON. It is designed in a capsule style. A device for catching wild Pokémon. It is thrown like a ball at the target. It is designed as a capsule system. A device for catching wild Pokémon. It’s thrown like a ball at a Pokémon, comfortably encapsulating its target.
Safari Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1.5×. This item can only be used in the great marsh or kanto safari zone. A special BALL that is used only in the SAFARI ZONE. A special BALL that is used only in the SAFARI ZONE. It is finished in a camouflage pattern. A special Poké Ball that is used only in the Great Marsh. It is decorated in a camouflage pattern. A special Poké Ball that is used only in the Great Marsh. It is recognizable by the camouflage pattern decorating it. - - - A special Poké Ball that was used in the Safari Zone in the Kanto region and in the Great Marsh in the Sinnoh region.
Net Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If the wild Pokémon is water- or bug-type, this ball has a catch rate of 3×. Otherwise, it has a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A BALL that works well on WATER- and BUG-type POKéMON. A somewhat different BALL that works especially well on WATER- and BUG-type POKéMON. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well on Water- and Bug-type Pokémon. A somewhat different Poké Ball that is more effective when attempting to catch Water- or Bug-type Pokémon.
Dive Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If the wild Pokémon was encountered by surfing or fishing, this ball has a catch rate of 3.5×. Otherwise, it has a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A BALL that works better on POKéMON on the ocean floor. A somewhat different BALL that works especially well on POKéMON deep in the sea. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well on Pokémon that live in the sea. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well on Pokémon that live underwater. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well when catching Pokémon that live underwater.
Nest Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. Has a catch rate of given by `(40 - level) / 10`, where `level` is the wild Pokémon’s level, to a maximum of 3.9× for level 1 Pokémon. If the wild Pokémon’s level is higher than 30, this ball has a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A BALL that works better on weaker POKéMON. A somewhat different BALL that works especially well on weaker POKéMON. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well on weaker Pokémon in the wild. A somewhat different Poké Ball that becomes more effective the lower the level of the wild Pokémon.
Repeat Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If the wild Pokémon’s species is marked as caught in the trainer’s Pokédex, this ball has a catch rate of 3×. Otherwise, it has a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A BALL that works better on POKéMON caught before. A somewhat different BALL that works especially well on POKéMON caught before. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well on Pokémon species that were previously caught. A somewhat different Poké Ball that works especially well on a Pokémon species that has been caught before.
Timer Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. Has a catch rate of 1.1× on the first turn of the battle and increases by 0.1× every turn, to a maximum of 4× on turn 30. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. More effective as more turns are taken in battle. A BALL that gains power in battles taking many turns. A somewhat different BALL that becomes progressively better the more turns there are in a battle. A somewhat different Ball that becomes progressively better the more turns there are in a battle. A somewhat different Poké Ball that becomes progressively more effective the more turns that are taken in battle. A somewhat different Poké Ball that becomes progressively more effective at catching Pokémon the more turns that are taken in battle.
Luxury Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1×. Whenever the caught Pokémon’s happiness increases, it increases by one extra point. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A cozy BALL that makes POKéMON more friendly. A comfortable BALL that makes a captured wild POKéMON quickly grow friendly. A comfortable Poké Ball that makes a caught wild Pokémon quickly grow friendly. A particularly comfortable Poké Ball that makes a wild Pokémon quickly grow friendlier after being caught.
Premier Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A rare BALL made in commemoration of some event. A rare BALL that has been specially made to commemorate an event of some sort. A somewhat rare Poké Ball that has been specially made to commemorate an event of some sort. A somewhat rare Poké Ball that was made as a commemorative item used to celebrate an event of some sort.
Dusk Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If it’s currently nighttime or the wild Pokémon was encountered while walking in a cave, this ball has a catch rate of 3.5×. Otherwise, it has a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A somewhat different Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch wild Pokémon at night or in dark places like caves. A somewhat different Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch wild Pokémon at night or in dark places such as caves.
Heal Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1×. The caught Pokémon’s HP is immediately restored, PP for all its moves is restored, and any status ailment is cured. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A remedial Poké Ball that restores the caught Pokémon’s HP and eliminates any status problem. A remedial Poké Ball that restores the HP of a Pokémon caught with it and eliminates any status conditions.
Quick Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 4× on the first turn of a battle, but 1× any other time. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A somewhat different Poké Ball that provides a better catch rate if it is used at the start of a wild encounter. A somewhat different Poké Ball that has a more successful catch rate if used at the start of a wild encounter.
Cherish Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon, using a catch rate of 1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A quite rare Poké Ball that has been specially crafted to commemorate an occasion of some sort. A quite rare Poké Ball that has been crafted in order to commemorate a special occasion of some sort.
Potion is a Pokémon item. Used on a friendly Pokémon : Restores 20 HP. Restores the HP of a POKéMON by 20 points. A spray-type wound medicine. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 20 points. A spray-type medicine for wounds. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by just 20 points. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 20 HP to an injured Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 20 HP to a single Pokémon.
Antidote is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures poison. Heals a poisoned POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It heals one POKéMON from a poisoning. A spray-type medicine. It lifts the effect of poison from one Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for poisoning. It can be used once to lift the effects of being poisoned from a Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating poisoning. It can be used to lift the effects of being poisoned from a single Pokémon.
Burn Heal is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures a burn. Heals POKéMON of a burn. A spray-type medicine. It heals one POKéMON of a burn. A spray-type medicine. It heals a single Pokémon that is suffering from a burn. A spray-type medicine for treating burns. It can be used once to heal a Pokémon suffering from a burn. A spray-type medicine for treating burns. It can be used to heal a single Pokémon suffering from a burn.
Ice Heal is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures freezing. Defrosts a frozen POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It defrosts a frozen POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It defrosts a Pokémon that has been frozen solid. A spray-type medicine for freezing. It can be used once to defrost a Pokémon that has been frozen solid. A spray-type medicine for treating freezing. It can be used to thaw out a single Pokémon that has been frozen solid.
Awakening is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures sleep. Awakens a sleeping POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It awakens a sleeping POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It awakens a Pokémon from the clutches of sleep. A spray-type medicine used against sleep. It can be used once to rouse a Pokémon from the clutches of sleep. A spray-type medicine to wake the sleeping. It can be used to rouse a single Pokémon from the clutches of sleep.
Paralyze Heal is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures paralysis. Heals a paralyzed POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It heals one POKéMON from paralysis. A spray-type medicine. It eliminates paralysis from a single Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for paralysis. It can be used once to free a Pokémon that has been paralyzed. A spray-type medicine for treating paralysis. It can be used to free a single Pokémon that has been paralyzed.
Full Restore is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores HP to full and cures any status ailment and confusion. Fully restores the HP and status of a POKéMON. A medicine that fully restores the HP and heals any status problems of one POKéMON. A medicine that fully restores the HP and heals any status problems of a single Pokémon. A medicine that can be used to fully restore the HP of a single Pokémon and heal any status conditions it has.
Max Potion is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores HP to full. Fully restores the HP of a POKéMON. A spray-type wound medicine. It fully restores the HP of one POKéMON. A spray-type medicine for wounds. It completely restores the HP of a single Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It will completely restore the max HP of a single Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to completely restore the max HP of a single Pokémon.
Hyper Potion is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 200 HP. Restores the HP of a POKéMON by 200 points. A spray-type wound medicine. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 200 points. A spray-type medicine for wounds. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 200 points. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 200 HP to an injured Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 120 HP to an injured Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 120 HP to a single Pokémon.
Super Potion is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 50 HP. Restores the HP of a POKéMON by 50 points. A spray-type wound medicine. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 50 points. A spray-type medicine for wounds. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 50 points. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 50 HP to an injured Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 60 HP to an injured Pokémon. A spray-type medicine for treating wounds. It can be used to restore 60 HP to a single Pokémon.
Full Heal is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures any status ailment and confusion. Heals all the status problems of one POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It heals all the status problems of one POKéMON. A spray-type medicine. It heals all the status problems of a single Pokémon. A spray-type medicine that is broadly effective. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon. A spray-type medicine that is broadly effective. It can be used to heal all the status conditions of a single Pokémon.
Revive is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Revives the Pokémon and restores half its HP. Revives a fainted POKéMON with half its HP. A medicine that revives a fainted POKéMON, restoring HP by half the maximum amount. A medicine that revives a fainted Pokémon. It restores half the Pokémon’s maximum HP. A medicine that can revive fainted Pokémon. It also restores half of a fainted Pokémon’s maximum HP. A medicine that can be used to revive a single Pokémon that has fainted. It also restores half of the Pokémon’s max HP.
Max Revive is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Revives the Pokémon and restores its HP to full. Revives a fainted POKéMON with all its HP. A medicine that revives a fainted POKéMON, restoring HP fully. A medicine that revives a fainted Pokémon. It fully restores the Pokémon’s HP. A medicine that can revive fainted Pokémon. It also fully restores a fainted Pokémon’s maximum HP. A medicine that can be used to revive a single Pokémon that has fainted. It also fully restores the Pokémon’s max HP.
Fresh Water is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 50 HP. A mineral water that restores HP by 50 points. Water with a high mineral content. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 50 points. Water with a high mineral content. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 50 points. Water with a high mineral content. When consumed, it restores 50 HP to an injured Pokémon. Water with a high mineral content. When consumed, it restores up to 30 HP to an injured Pokémon. Water with high mineral content. It can be used to restore 30 HP to a single Pokémon.
Soda Pop is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 60 HP. A fizzy soda drink that restores HP by 60 points. A fizzy soda drink. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 60 points. A fizzy soda drink. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 60 points. A highly carbonated soda drink. When consumed, it restores 60 HP to an injured Pokémon. A highly carbonated soda drink. When consumed, it restores up to 50 HP to an injured Pokémon. A highly carbonated soda drink. It can be used to restore 50 HP to a single Pokémon.
Lemonade is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 80 HP. A very sweet drink that restores HP by 80 points. A very sweet drink. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 80 points. A very sweet drink. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 80 points. A very sweet and refreshing drink. When consumed, it restores 80 HP to an injured Pokémon. A very sweet and refreshing drink. When consumed, it restores up to 70 HP to an injured Pokémon. A very sweet and refreshing drink. It can be used to restore 70 HP to a single Pokémon.
Moomoo Milk is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 100 HP. A nutritious milk that restores HP by 100 points. Highly nutritious milk. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 100 points. Milk with a very high nutrition content. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 100 points. A bottle of highly nutritious milk. When consumed, it restores 100 HP to an injured Pokémon. A bottle of highly nutritious milk. When consumed, it restores up to 100 HP to an injured Pokémon. A bottle of highly nutritious milk. It can be used to restore 100 HP to a single Pokémon.
Energy Powder is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 50 HP. Decreases happiness by 5/5/10. A bitter powder that restores HP by 50 points. A very bitter medicine powder. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 50 points. A very bitter medicine powder. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 50 points. A bitter medicine powder. When consumed, it restores 50 HP to an injured Pokémon. A very bitter medicinal powder. When consumed, it restores up to 60 HP to an injured Pokémon. A very bitter medicinal powder. It can be used to restore 60 HP to a single Pokémon.
Energy Root is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 200 HP. Decreases happiness by 10/10/15. A bitter root that restores HP by 200 points. A very bitter root. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 200 points. A very bitter root. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 200 points. An extremely bitter medicinal root. When consumed, it restores 200 HP to an injured Pokémon. An extremely bitter medicinal root. When consumed, it restores up to 120 HP to an injured Pokémon. An extremely bitter medicinal root. It can be used to restore 120 HP to a single Pokémon.
Heal Powder is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures any status ailment. Decreases happiness by 5/5/10. A bitter powder that heals all status problems. A very bitter medicine powder. It heals all the status problems of one POKéMON. A very bitter medicine powder. It heals all the status problems of a single Pokémon. A very bitter medicine powder. When consumed, it heals all of a Pokémon’s status conditions. A very bitter medicinal powder. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Revival Herb is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Revives a fainted Pokémon and restores its HP to full. Decreases happiness by 10/10/15. A very bitter herb that revives a fainted POKéMON. A very bitter medicinal herb. It revives a fainted POKéMON, restoring HP fully. A very bitter medicinal herb. It revives a fainted Pokémon, fully restoring its HP. A terribly bitter medicinal herb. It revives a fainted Pokémon and fully restores its maximum HP. A terribly bitter medicinal herb. It revives a fainted Pokémon and fully restores its max HP.
Ether is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 10 PP for a selected move. Restores the PP of a selected move by 10. Restores a selected move’s PP by 10 points for one POKéMON. It restores the PP of a Pokémon’s selected move by a maximum of 10 points. This medicine can restore 10 PP to a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon. This medicine can be used to restore 10 PP to a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon.
Max Ether is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores PP to full for a selected move. Fully restores the PP of a selected move. Fully restores a selected move’s PP for one POKéMON. It fully restores the PP of a single selected move that has been learned by the target Pokémon. This medicine can fully restore the PP of a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon. This medicine can be used to fully restore the PP of a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon.
Elixir is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 10 PP for each move. Restores the PP of all moves by 10. Restores the PP of all moves for one POKéMON by 10 points each. It restores the PP of all the moves learned by the targeted Pokémon by 10 points each. This medicine can restore 10 PP to each of the moves that have been learned by a Pokémon. This medicine can be used to restore 10 PP to each of the moves that have been learned by a Pokémon.
Max Elixir is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores PP to full for each move. Fully restores the PP of a POKéMON’s moves. Fully restores the PP of all moves for one POKéMON. It fully restores the PP of all the moves learned by the targeted Pokémon. This medicine can fully restore the PP of all of the moves that have been learned by a Pokémon. This medicine can be used to fully restore the PP of all of the moves that have been learned by a Pokémon.
Lava Cookie is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures any status ailment and confusion. A local specialty that heals all status problems. LAVARIDGE TOWN’s local specialty. It heals all the status problems of one POKéMON. Lavaridge Town’s local specialty. It heals all the status problems of one Pokémon. Lavaridge Town’s local specialty. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Berry Juice is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 20 HP. A 100% pure juice that restores HP by 20 points. A 100% pure juice. It restores the HP of one POKéMON by 20 points. A 100% pure juice made of Berries. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by just 20 points. A 100 percent pure juice made of Berries. When consumed, it restores 20 HP to an injured Pokémon. A 100 percent pure juice made of Berries. It can be used to restore 20 HP to a single Pokémon.
Sacred Ash is a Pokémon item. Used : Revives all fainted Pokémon in the party and restores their HP to full. Fully revives and restores all fainted POKéMON. Revives all fainted POKéMON, restoring HP fully. It revives all fainted Pokémon. In doing so, it also fully restores their HP. This rare ash can revive all fainted Pokémon in a party. In doing so, it also fully restores their maximum HP. This rare ash can revive all fainted Pokémon in a party. In doing so, it also fully restores their max HP.
Hp Up is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases HP effort by 10, but won’t increase it beyond 100. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the HP of one POKéMON. Raises the base HP of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for POKéMON. It raises the base HP of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. It raises the base HP of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the base HP of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the HP base points of a single Pokémon.
Protein is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases Attack effort by 10, but won’t increase it beyond 100. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the stat ATTACK of one POKéMON. Raises the base ATTACK stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for POKéMON. It raises the base ATTACK stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. It raises the base Attack stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the base Attack stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the Attack base points of a single Pokémon.
Iron is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases Defense effort by 10, but won’t increase it beyond 100. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the stat DEFENSE of one POKéMON. Raises the base DEFENSE stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for POKéMON. It raises the base DEFENSE stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. It raises the base Defense stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the base Defense stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the Defense base points of a single Pokémon.
Carbos is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases Speed effort by 10, but won’t increase it beyond 100. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the stat SPEED of one POKéMON. Raises the base SPEED stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for POKéMON. It raises the base SPEED stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. It raises the base Speed stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the base Speed stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the Speed base points of a single Pokémon.
Calcium is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases Special Attack effort by 10, but won’t increase it beyond 100. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the stat SP. ATK of one POKéMON. Raises the base SP. ATK stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for POKéMON. It raises the base SP. ATK stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. It raises the base Sp. Atk (Special Attack) stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the base Sp. Atk stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the Sp. Atk base points of a single Pokémon.
Rare Candy is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases level by 1. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the level of a POKéMON by one. A candy that is packed with energy. It raises the level of a POKéMON by one. A candy that is packed with energy. It raises the level of a single Pokémon by one. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will instantly raise the level of a single Pokémon by one.
Pp Up is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases a selected move’s max PP by 20% its original max PP, to a maximum of 1.6×. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the maximum PP of a selected move. Slightly raises the maximum PP of a selected move for one POKéMON. It slightly raises the maximum PP of a selected move that has been learned by the target Pokémon. A medicine that can slightly raise the maximum PP of a single move that has been learned by the target Pokémon. A medicine that slightly raises the maximum PP of a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon. A medicine that slightly raises the max PP of a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon.
Zinc is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases Special Defense effort by 10, but won’t increase it beyond 100. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the base SP. DEF stat of one POKéMON. Raises the stat SP. DEF of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for POKéMON. It raises the base SP. DEF stat of one POKéMON. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. It raises the base Sp. Def (Special Defense) stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the base Sp. Def stat of a single Pokémon. A nutritious drink for Pokémon. When consumed, it raises the Sp. Def base points of a single Pokémon.
Pp Max is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases a selected move’s max PP to 1.6× its original max PP. Increases happiness by 5/3/2. Raises the PP of a move to its maximum points. Raises the PP of a selected move to its maximum level for one POKéMON. It maximally raises the top PP of a selected move that has been learned by the target Pokémon. A medicine that can optimally raise the maximum PP of a single move that has been learned by the target Pokémon. A medicine that optimally raises the maximum PP of a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon. A medicine that optimally raises the max PP of a single selected move that has been learned by a Pokémon.
Old Gateau is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures any status ailment and confusion. Old Chateau’s hidden specialty. It heals all the status problems of a single Pokémon. The Old Chateau’s hidden specialty. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Guard Spec is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Protects the target’s stats from being lowered for the next five turns. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Prevents stat reduction when used in battle. An item that prevents stat reduction among party POKéMON for five turns after use. An item that prevents stat reduction among the Trainer’s party Pokémon for five turns after use. An item that prevents stat reduction among the Trainer’s party Pokémon for five turns after it is used in battle.
Dire Hit is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Increases the target’s critical hit chance by one stage until it leaves the field. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Raises the critical-hit ratio during one battle. Raises the critical-hit ratio of POKéMON in battle. Wears off if the POKéMON is withdrawn. An item that raises the critical-hit ratio of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. It raises the critical-hit ratio greatly. It can be used only once and wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that raises the critical-hit ratio greatly. It can be used only once and wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that greatly raises the critical-hit ratio of a Pokémon during a battle. It can be used only once and wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Attack is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Attack by one stage. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Raises the stat ATTACK during one battle. Raises the ATTACK stat of POKéMON in battle. Wears off if the POKéMON is withdrawn. An item that raises the Attack stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that boosts the Attack stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that sharply boosts the Attack stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Defense is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Defense by one stage. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Raises the stat DEFENSE during one battle. Raises the DEFENSE stat of POKéMON in battle. Wears off if the POKéMON is withdrawn. An item that raises the Defense stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that boosts the Defense stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that sharply boosts the Defense stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Speed is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Speed by one stage. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Raises the stat SPEED during one battle. Raises the SPEED stat of POKéMON in battle. Wears off if the POKéMON is withdrawn. An item that raises the Speed stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that boosts the Speed stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that sharply boosts the Speed stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Accuracy is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s accuracy by one stage. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Raises accuracy of attack moves during one battle. Raises the accuracy stat of POKéMON in battle. Wears off if the POKéMON is withdrawn. An item that raises the accuracy of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that boosts the accuracy of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that sharply boosts the accuracy of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Atk is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Attack by one stage. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. Raises the stat SP. ATK during one battle. Raises the SP. ATK stat of POKéMON in battle. Wears off if the POKéMON is withdrawn. An item that raises the Sp. Atk stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that boosts the Sp. Atk stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that sharply boosts the Sp. Atk stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Def is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Defense by one stage. Increases happiness by 1/1/0. An item that raises the Sp. Def stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that boosts the Sp. Def stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn. An item that sharply boosts the Sp. Def stat of a Pokémon during a battle. It wears off once the Pokémon is withdrawn.
Poke Doll is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Ends a wild battle. Cannot be used in trainer battles. Use to flee from any battle with a wild POKéMON. An attractive doll. Use it to flee from any battle with a wild POKéMON. A doll that attracts Pokémon. Use it to flee from any battle with a wild Pokémon. A doll that attracts the attention of a Pokémon. It guarantees escape from any battle with wild Pokémon. - - -
Fluffy Tail is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Ends a wild battle. Cannot be used in trainer battles. Use to flee from any battle with a wild POKéMON. An attractive item. Use it to flee from any battle with a wild POKéMON. An item that attracts Pokémon. Use it to flee from any battle with a wild Pokémon. A toy that attracts the attention of a Pokémon. It guarantees escape from any battle with wild Pokémon.
Blue Flute is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures sleep. A glass flute that awakens sleeping POKéMON. A blue glass flute that awakens a sleeping POKéMON. A blue flute made from blown glass. Its melody awakens a single Pokémon from sleep. A toy flute made from blue glass. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A lovely toy flute to admire. It’s made from blue glass. A flute made from blue glass that awakens sleeping Pokémon. A flute made from blue glass. It awakens sleeping Pokémon.
Yellow Flute is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Cures confusion. A glass flute that snaps POKéMON out of confusion. A yellow glass flute that snaps one POKéMON out of confusion. A yellow flute made from blown glass. Its melody snaps a single Pokémon out of confusion. A toy flute made from yellow glass. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A lovely toy flute to admire. It’s made from yellow glass. A flute made from yellow glass that snaps Pokémon out of confusion. A flute made from yellow glass. It snaps Pokémon out of confusion.
Red Flute is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Cures attraction. A glass flute that snaps POKéMON out of attraction. A red glass flute that snaps one POKéMON out of infatuation. A red flute made from blown glass. Its melody snaps a single Pokémon out of infatuation. A toy flute made from red glass. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A lovely toy flute to admire. It’s made from red glass. A flute made from red glass that snaps Pokémon out of infatuation. A flute made from red glass. It snaps Pokémon out of infatuation.
Black Flute is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Decreases the wild Pokémon encounter rate by 50%. A glass flute that keeps away wild POKéMON. A black glass flute. When blown, it makes wild POKéMON less likely to appear. A black flute made from blown glass. Its melody makes wild Pokémon less likely to appear. A toy flute made from black glass. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A lovely toy flute to admire. It’s made from black glass. A flute made from black glass. It makes it easier to encounter strong Pokémon in the place you use it.
White Flute is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Doubles the wild Pokémon encounter rate. A glass flute that lures wild POKéMON. A white glass flute. When blown, it makes wild POKéMON more likely to appear. A white flute made from blown glass. Its melody makes wild Pokémon more likely to appear. A toy flute made from white glass. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A lovely toy flute to admire. It’s made from white glass. A flute made from white glass. It makes it easier to encounter weak Pokémon in the place you use it.
Shoal Salt is a Pokémon item. No effect. Salt obtained from deep inside the SHOAL CAVE. Pure salt obtained from deep inside the SHOAL CAVE. It is extremely salty. Pure salt that was discovered deep inside the Shoal Cave. It is extremely salty. Pure salt that can be discovered deep inside the Shoal Cave. A maniac will buy it for a high price. Pure salt that can be discovered only deep inside the Shoal Cave. Salt that you found inside Shoal Cave.
Shoal Shell is a Pokémon item. No effect. A seashell that you found inside Shoal Cave. A seashell found deep inside the SHOAL CAVE. A pretty seashell found deep inside the SHOAL CAVE. It is striped in blue and white. A pretty seashell that was found deep inside the Shoal Cave. It is striped in blue and white. A pretty seashell that can be found deep inside the Shoal Cave. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A pretty seashell that can be found deep inside the Shoal Cave.
Red Shard is a Pokémon item. No effect. In Diamond and Pearl, trade ten for a sunny day TM in the house midway along the southern section of sinnoh route 212. In Platinum, trade to move tutors on sinnoh route 212, in snowpoint city, and in the survival area. Eight shards total are required per tutelage, but the particular combination of colors varies by move. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for a cheri berry, a leppa berry, and a pecha berry with the Juggler near the Pokémon Center in violet city. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for a persim berry, a pomeg berry, and a razz berry with the Juggler near the pal park entrance in fuchsia city. A shard from an ancient item. Can be sold cheaply. A small red shard. It appears to be from some sort of a tool made long ago. A small red shard. It appears to be from some sort of implement made long ago. A small red shard. It appears to be a fragment of some sort of implement made long ago.
Blue Shard is a Pokémon item. No effect. In Diamond and Pearl, trade ten for a rain dance TM in the house midway along the southern section of sinnoh route 212. In Platinum, trade to move tutors on sinnoh route 212, in snowpoint city, and in the survival area. Eight shards total are required per tutelage, but the particular combination of colors varies by move. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for a chesto berry, an oran berry, and a wiki berry with the Juggler near the Pokémon Center in violet city. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for a bluk berry, a cornn berry, and a kelpsy berry with the Juggler near the pal park entrance in fuchsia city. A shard from an ancient item. Can be sold cheaply. A small blue shard. It appears to be from some sort of a tool made long ago. A small blue shard. It appears to be from some sort of implement made long ago. A small blue shard. It appears to be a fragment of some sort of implement made long ago.
Yellow Shard is a Pokémon item. No effect. In Diamond and Pearl, trade ten for a sandstorm TM in the house midway along the southern section of sinnoh route 212. In Platinum, trade to move tutors on sinnoh route 212, in snowpoint city, and in the survival area. Eight shards total are required per tutelage, but the particular combination of colors varies by move. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for an aspear berry, a iapapa berry, and a sitrus berry with the Juggler near the Pokémon Center in violet city. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for a grepa berry, a nomel berry, and a pinap berry with the Juggler near the pal park entrance in fuchsia city. A shard from an ancient item. Can be sold cheaply. A small yellow shard. It appears to be from some sort of a tool made long ago. A small yellow shard. It appears to be from some sort of implement made long ago. A small yellow shard. It appears to be a fragment of some sort of implement made long ago.
Green Shard is a Pokémon item. No effect. In Diamond and Pearl, trade ten for a hail TM in the house midway along the southern section of sinnoh route 212. In Platinum, trade to move tutors on sinnoh route 212, in snowpoint city, and in the survival area. Eight shards total are required per tutelage, but the particular combination of colors varies by move. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for an aguav berry, a lum berry, and a rawst berry with the Juggler near the Pokémon Center in violet city. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, trade one for a durin berry, a hondew berry, and a wepear berry with the Juggler near the pal park entrance in fuchsia city. A shard from an ancient item. Can be sold cheaply. A small green shard. It appears to be from some sort of a tool made long ago. A small green shard. It appears to be from some sort of implement made long ago. A small green shard. It appears to be a fragment of some sort of implement made long ago.
Super Repel is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Trainer will skip encounters with wild Pokémon of a lower level than the lead party Pokémon. This effect wears off after the trainer takes 200 steps. Repels weak wild POKéMON for 200 steps. Prevents weak wild POKéMON from appearing for 200 steps. An item that prevents weak wild Pokémon from appearing for 200 steps after its use. An item that prevents any low-level wild Pokémon from jumping out at you for 200 steps after its use. An item that prevents any low-level wild Pokémon from jumping out at you for a while. It lasts longer than Repel. An item that drives away wild Pokémon so you won’t encounter them. It lasts longer than a Repel.
Max Repel is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Trainer will skip encounters with wild Pokémon of a lower level than the lead party Pokémon. This effect wears off after the trainer takes 250 steps. Repels weak wild POKéMON for 250 steps. Prevents weak wild POKéMON from appearing for 250 steps. An item that prevents weak wild Pokémon from appearing for 250 steps after its use. An item that prevents any low-level wild Pokémon from jumping out at you for 250 steps after its use. An item that prevents any low-level wild Pokémon from jumping out at you for a while. It lasts longer than Super Repel. An item that drives away wild Pokémon so you won’t encounter them. It lasts longer than a Super Repel.
Escape Rope is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Transports the trainer to the last-entered dungeon entrance. Cannot be used outside, in buildings, or in distortion world, sinnoh hall of origin 1, spear pillar, or turnback cave. Use to escape instantly from a cave or a dungeon. A long, durable rope. Use it to escape instantly from a cave or a dungeon. A long and durable rope. Use it to escape instantly from a cave or a dungeon. A long and durable rope. Use it to escape instantly from locations like caves or dungeons. A long and durable rope. Use it to escape instantly from locations like caves or dungeons. It can be used any number of times.
Repel is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Trainer will skip encounters with wild Pokémon of a lower level than the lead party Pokémon. This effect wears off after the trainer takes 100 steps. Repels weak wild POKéMON for 100 steps. Prevents weak wild POKéMON from appearing for 100 steps. An item that prevents weak wild Pokémon from appearing for 100 steps after its use. An item that prevents any low-level wild Pokémon from jumping out at you for 100 steps after its use. An item that prevents any low-level wild Pokémon from jumping out at you for a while. An item that drives away wild Pokémon so you won’t encounter them for a short time.
Sun Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves a cottonee into whimsicott, a gloom into bellossom, a petilil into lilligant, or a sunkern into sunflora. Makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. It is as red as the sun. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is as red as the sun. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It burns as red as the evening sun.
Moon Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves a clefairy into clefable, a jigglypuff into wigglytuff, a munna into musharna, a nidorina into nidoqueen, a nidorino into nidoking, or a skitty into delcatty. Makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. It is as black as the night sky. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is as black as the night sky. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is as black as the night sky.
Fire Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves an eevee into flareon, a growlithe into arcanine, a pansear into simisear, or a vulpix into ninetales. Makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. It is colored orange. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is colored orange. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. The stone has a fiery orange heart.
Thunder Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves an eelektrik into eelektross, an eevee into jolteon, or a pikachu into raichu. Makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. It has a thunderbolt pattern. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It has a thunderbolt pattern. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It has a distinct thunderbolt pattern.
Water Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves an eevee into vaporeon, a lombre into ludicolo, a panpour into simipour, a poliwhirl into poliwrath, a shellder into cloyster, or a staryu into starmie. Makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. It is a clear light blue. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is a clear, light blue. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is the blue of a pool of clear water.
Leaf Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves an exeggcute into exeggutor, a gloom into vileplume, a nuzleaf into shiftry, a pansage into simisage, or a weepinbell into victreebel. Makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of POKéMON evolve. It has a leaf pattern. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It has a leaf pattern. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It has an unmistakable leaf pattern.
Tiny Mushroom is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A plain, ordinary mushroom. Can be sold cheaply. A plain mushroom that would sell at a cheap price. A small and rare mushroom. It is quite popular among certain people. A small and rare mushroom. It is quite popular among certain maniacal fan segments. A small and rare mushroom. It is sought after by collectors. A very small and rare mushroom. It’s popular with a certain class of collectors and sought out by them. A very small and rare mushroom. It’s popular with a certain class of collectors.
Big Mushroom is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A rare mushroom that would sell at a high price. A large and rare mushroom. It is very popular among certain people. A large and rare mushroom. It is very popular among certain maniacal fan segments. A large and rare mushroom. It is sought after by collectors. A very large and rare mushroom. It’s popular with a certain class of collectors and sought out by them. A very large and rare mushroom. It’s popular with a certain class of collectors.
Pearl is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A pretty pearl. Can be sold cheaply. A pretty pearl that would sell at a cheap price. A relatively small pearl that sparkles in a pretty silver color. It can be sold cheaply. A somewhat-small pearl that sparkles in a pretty silver color. It can be sold cheaply to shops. A rather small pearl that has a very nice silvery sheen to it. It can be sold cheaply to shops. A rather small pearl that has a very nice silvery sheen to it. It can be sold at a low price to shops.
Big Pearl is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A lovely large pearl that would sell at a high price. A quite-large pearl that sparkles in a pretty silver color. It can be sold at a high price. A quite-large pearl that sparkles in a pretty silver color. It can be sold at a high price to shops. A rather large pearl that has a very nice silvery sheen. It can be sold to shops for a high price. A rather large pearl that has a very nice silvery sheen. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Stardust is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. Beautiful red sand. Can be sold at a high price. A pretty red sand with a loose, silky feel. It can be sold at a high price. Lovely, red-colored sand with a loose, silky feel. It can be sold at a high price to shops. Lovely, red sand that flows between the fingers with a loose, silky feel. It can be sold at a high price to shops. Lovely red sand that flows between the fingers with a loose, silky feel. It can be sold at a low price to shops.
Star Piece is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A red gem shard. It would sell for a very high price. A shard of a pretty gem that sparkles in a red color. It can be sold at a high price. A shard of a pretty gem that sparkles in a red color. It can be sold at a high price to shops. A small shard of a beautiful gem that demonstrates a distinctly red sparkle. It can be sold at a high price to shops. A small shard of a beautiful gem that gives off a distinctly red sparkle. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Nugget is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A nugget of pure gold. Can be sold at a high price. A nugget of pure gold that gives off a lustrous gleam. It can be sold at a high price. A nugget of pure gold that gives off a lustrous gleam. It can be sold at a high price to shops. A nugget of the purest gold that gives off a lustrous gleam in direct light. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Heart Scale is a Pokémon item. Trade one to the Move Relearner near the shore in pastoria city or with the Move Deleter in blackthorn city to teach one party Pokémon a prior level-up move. A lovely scale. It is coveted by collectors. A pretty, heart-shaped scale that is extremely rare. It glows faintly in the colors of a rainbow. A pretty, heart-shaped scale that is extremely rare. It glows faintly in the colors of the rainbow. A pretty, heart-shaped scale that is extremely rare. It glows faintly with all of the colors of the rainbow. A pretty, heart-shaped scale that is extremely rare. Some people are happy to receive one.
Honey is a Pokémon item. Used outside of battle : Immediately triggers a wild Pokémon battle, as long as the trainer is somewhere with wild Pokémon—i.e., in tall grass, in a cave, or surfing. Can be smeared on sweet-smelling trees to attract tree-dwelling Pokémon after six hours. A sweet honey with a lush aroma that attracts wild Pokémon when it is used in grass, caves, or on special trees. A sweet honey with a lush aroma that attracts wild Pokémon when it is used in tall grass, in caves, or on special trees. A sweet honey with a lush aroma that attracts wild Pokémon when it is used in tall grass, in caves, or elsewhere. A sweet honey collected by Pokémon. It has a lush aroma and can be sold at a low price to shops.
Growth Mulch is a Pokémon item. Used on a patch of soil : Plant’s growth stages will each last 25% less time. Dries soil out more quickly. A plant fertilizer spread on soft soil. It speeds up the growth of Berries. However, it also dries the soil faster. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil. It speeds up the growth of Berries. However, it also dries the soil faster. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Damp Mulch is a Pokémon item. Used on a patch of soil : Plant’s growth stages will each last 25% more time. Dries soil out more slowly. A plant fertilizer spread on soft soil. It slows the growth of Berries and causes the soil to dry slower. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil. It slows the growth of Berries and causes the soil to dry slower. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Stable Mulch is a Pokémon item. Used on a patch of soil : Fully-grown plant will last 25% longer before dying and possibly regrowing. A plant fertilizer spread on soft soil. It extends the time ripened Berries remain on their plants before falling. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil. It extends the time ripened Berries remain on their plants before falling. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Gooey Mulch is a Pokémon item. Used on a path of soil : Plant will regrow after dying 25% more times. A plant fertilizer spread on soft soil. It ups the number of times new plants grow where mature plants withered. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil. It ups the number of times new plants grow where mature plants withered. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A fertilizer to be spread on soft soil in regions where Berries are grown. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Root Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive a lileep. A fossil of an ancient, seafloor- dwelling POKéMON. A fossil of an ancient, seafloor- dwelling POKéMON. It appears to be part of a plant root. A fossil of an ancient Pokémon that lived in the sea. It appears to be part of a plant root. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived in the sea. It looks as if it could be part of a plant’s root.
Claw Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive an anorith. A fossil of an ancient, seafloor- dwelling POKéMON. A fossil of an ancient, seafloor- dwelling POKéMON. It appears to be part of a claw. A fossil of an ancient Pokémon that lived in the sea. It appears to be part of a claw. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived in the sea. It appears to be a fragment of a claw.
Helix Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive an omanyte. A piece of an ancient marine POKéMON’s seashell. A fossil of an ancient, seafloor- dwelling POKéMON. It appears to be part of a seashell. A fossil of an ancient Pokémon that lived in the sea. It appears to be part of a seashell. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived in the sea. It might be a piece of a seashell.
Dome Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive a kabuto. A piece of an ancient marine POKéMON’s shell. A fossil of an ancient, seafloor- dwelling POKéMON. It appears to be part of a shell. A fossil of an ancient Pokémon that lived in the sea. It appears to be part of a shell. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived in the sea. It could be a shell or carapace.
Old Amber is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive an aerodactyl. A stone containing the genes of an ancient POKéMON. A piece of amber that contains the genes of an ancient POKéMON. It is clear with a reddish tint. A piece of amber that contains the genetic material of an ancient Pokémon. It is clear with a reddish tint. A piece of amber that still contains the genetic material of an ancient Pokémon. It’s clear with a tawny, reddish tint.
Armor Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive a shieldon. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that lived on the land. It appears to be part of a collar. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived on the land. It looks to be from some kind of protective collar.
Skull Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in the mining museum in oreburgh city or the Museum of Science in pewter city to receive a cranidos. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that lived on the land. It appears to be part of a head. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived on the land. It appears as though it’s part of a head.
Rare Bone is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. A bone that is extremely valuable for Pokémon archaeology. It can be sold for a high price to shops. A bone that is extremely valuable for Pokémon archeology. It can be sold for a high price to shops. A rare bone that is extremely valuable for the study of Pokémon archeology. It can be sold for a high price to shops.
Shiny Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves a minccino into cinccino, a roselia into roserade, or a togetic into togekiss. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It shines with a dazzling light. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It shines with a dazzling light.
Dusk Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves a lampent into chandelure, a misdreavus into mismagius, or a murkrow into honchkrow. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is as dark as dark can be. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It holds shadows as dark as can be.
Dawn Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves a male kirlia into gallade or a female snorunt into froslass. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It sparkles like eyes. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It sparkles like a glittering eye.
Oval Stone is a Pokémon item. Held by happiny : Holder evolves into chansey when it levels up during the daytime. A peculiar stone that makes certain species of Pokémon evolve. It is shaped like an egg. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It’s as round as a Pokémon Egg.
Odd Keystone is a Pokémon item. Place in the tower on sinnoh route 209. Check the stone to encounter a spiritomb, as long as the trainer’s Underground status card counts at least 32 greetings. A vital item that is needed to keep a stone tower from collapsing. Voices can be heard from it occasionally.
Adamant Orb is a Pokémon item. Held by dialga : Holder’s dragon- and steel-type moves have 1.2× their usual power. A brightly gleaming orb to be held by DIALGA. It boosts the power of Dragon-​ and Steel-type moves. A brightly gleaming orb to be held by Dialga. It boosts the power of Dragon-​ and Steel-type moves. A brightly gleaming orb to be held by Dialga. It boosts the power of Dragon-​ and Steel-type moves when it is held. A brightly gleaming orb to be held by Dialga. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Steel-type moves when it is held.
Lustrous Orb is a Pokémon item. Held by palkia : Holder’s dragon- and water-type moves have 1.2× their usual power. A beautifully glowing orb to be held by PALKIA. It boosts the power of Dragon-​ and Water-type moves. A beautifully glowing orb to be held by Palkia. It boosts the power of Dragon-​ and Water-type moves. A beautifully glowing orb to be held by Palkia. It boosts the power of Dragon-​ and Water-type moves when it is held. A beautifully glowing orb to be held by Palkia. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Water-type moves when it is held.
Grass Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a refreshingly green field. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Flame Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of flames in blazing red. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bubble Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a blue world underwater. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bloom Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of pretty floral patterns. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Tunnel Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a dimly lit coal mine. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Steel Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of cool mechanical designs. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Heart Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of giant heart patterns. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Snow Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a chilly, snow-covered world. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Space Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print depicting the huge expanse of space. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Air Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of colorful letter sets. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Mosaic Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a vivid rainbow pattern. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Brick Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a tough-looking brick pattern. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Cheri Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is paralyzed, it consumes this item to cure the paralysis. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures paralysis. A hold item that heals paralysis in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to heal paralysis. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from paralysis. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from paralysis. If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from paralysis. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from paralysis on its own in battle.
Chesto Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is asleep, it consumes this item to wake up. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures sleep. A hold item that awakens POKéMON in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to wake up. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from sleep. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from sleep. If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from sleep. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from sleep on its own in battle.
Pecha Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is poisoned, it consumes this item to cure the poison. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures poison. A hold item that heals poisoning in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to cure poison. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from poison. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from poison. If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from poison. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from poisoning on its own in battle.
Rawst Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is burned, it consumes this item to cure the burn. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures a burn. A hold item that heals a burn in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to heal a burn. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from a burn. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from a burn. If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from a burn. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from a burn on its own in battle.
Aspear Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is frozen, it consumes this item to thaw itself. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures freezing. A hold item that defrosts POKéMON in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle for defrosting. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to defrost it. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to defrost it. If held by a Pokémon, it defrosts it. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from being frozen on its own in battle.
Leppa Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is out of PP for one of its moves, it consumes this item to restore 10 of that move’s PP. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 10 PP for a selected move. A hold item that restores 10 PP in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to restore 10 PP. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to restore a move’s PP by 10. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to restore a move’s PP by 10. If held by a Pokémon, it restores a move’s PP by 10. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can restore 10 PP to a depleted move during battle.
Oran Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 10 HP. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 10 HP. A hold item that restores 10 HP in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to restore 10 HP. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to heal the user by just 10 HP. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to heal the user by just 10 HP. If held by a Pokémon, it heals the user by just 10 HP. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can restore its own HP by 10 points during battle.
Persim Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is confused, it consumes this item to cure the confusion. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures confusion. A hold item that heals confusion in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to lift confusion. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from confusion. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from confusion. If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from confusion. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from confusion on its own in battle.
Lum Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is afflicted with a major status ailment, it consumes this item to cure the ailment. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures any major status ailment. A hold item that heals status in battle. A hold item that heals any status problem in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to heal any problem. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from any status problem. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to recover from any status problem. If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from any status problem. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can recover from any status condition during battle.
Sitrus Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 1/4 its max HP. Used on a party Pokémon : Restores 1/4 the Pokémon’s max HP. A hold item that restores 30 HP in battle. When held by a POKéMON, it will be used in battle to restore 30 HP. A Poffin ingredient. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to heal the user’s HP a little. It may be used or held by a Pokémon to heal the user’s HP a little. If held by a Pokémon, it heals the user’s HP a little. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it can restore its own HP by a small amount during battle.
Figy Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 1/8 its max HP. If the holder dislikes spicy flavors (i.e., has a nature that lowers Attack), it will also become confused. A hold item that restores HP but may confuse. A hold item that restores HP but may cause confusion when used. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but may also cause confusion. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates spicy food. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but it will cause confusion if the user hates the taste.
Wiki Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 1/8 its max HP. If the holder dislikes dry flavors (i.e., has a nature that lowers Special Attack), it will also become confused. A hold item that restores HP but may confuse. A hold item that restores HP but may cause confusion when used. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but may also cause confusion. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates dry food. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but it will cause confusion if the user hates the taste.
Mago Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 1/8 its max HP. If the holder dislikes sweet flavors (i.e., has a nature that lowers Speed), it will also become confused. A hold item that restores HP but may confuse. A hold item that restores HP but may cause confusion when used. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but may also cause confusion. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates sweet food. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but it will cause confusion if the user hates the taste.
Aguav Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 1/8 its max HP. If the holder dislikes bitter flavors (i.e., has a nature that lowers Special Defense), it will also become confused. A hold item that restores HP but may confuse. A hold item that restores HP but may cause confusion when used. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but may also cause confusion. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates bitter food. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but it will cause confusion if the user hates the taste.
Iapapa Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/2 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to restore 1/8 its max HP. If the holder dislikes sour flavors (i.e., has a nature that lowers Defense), it will also become confused. A hold item that restores HP but may confuse. A hold item that restores HP but may cause confusion when used. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but may also cause confusion. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but may cause confusion if it hates sour food. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. If held by a Pokémon, it restores the user’s HP in a pinch, but it will cause confusion if the user hates the taste.
Razz Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow RAZZ. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Razz Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Coolness. Its red flesh is spicy when eaten. A Berry that makes it slightly easier to catch Pokémon when given to them.
Bluk Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow BLUK. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Bluk Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Beauty. Its blue flesh is sour when eaten. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Beauty. Its blue flesh is dry when eaten.
Nanab Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow NANAB. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Nanab Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cuteness. Its pink flesh is sweet when eaten. A Berry that calms wild Pokémon you’re trying to catch slightly when given to them.
Wepear Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow WEPEAR. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Wepear Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cleverness. Its green flesh is bitter when eaten.
Pinap Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow PINAP. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Pinap Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Toughness. Its yellow flesh is sour when eaten. A Berry that makes you slightly more likely to get an item when it’s given to Pokémon you’re trying to catch.
Pomeg Berry is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases happiness by 10/5/2. Lowers HP effort by 10. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its base HP. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow POMEG. Makes a POKéMON friendly but lowers base HP. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base HP. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base HP. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its HP base points.
Kelpsy Berry is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases happiness by 10/5/2. Lowers Attack effort by 10. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow KELPSY. Makes a POKéMON friendly but lowers base ATTACK. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Attack stat. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Attack stat. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its base Attack. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its Attack base points.
Qualot Berry is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases happiness by 10/5/2. Lowers Defense effort by 10. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow QUALOT. Makes a POKéMON friendly but lowers base DEFENSE. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Defense stat. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Defense stat. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its base Defense. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its Defense base points.
Hondew Berry is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases happiness by 10/5/2. Lowers Special Attack effort by 10. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow HONDEW. Makes a POKéMON friendly but lowers base SP. ATK. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Sp. Atk stat. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Sp. Atk stat. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its base Sp. Atk. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its Sp. Atk base points.
Grepa Berry is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases happiness by 10/5/2. Lowers Special Defense effort by 10. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow GREPA. Makes a POKéMON friendly but lowers base SP. DEF. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Sp. Def stat. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Sp. Def stat. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its base Sp. Def. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its Sp. Def base points.
Tamato Berry is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases happiness by 10/5/2. Lowers Speed effort by 10. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow TAMATO. Makes a POKéMON friendly but lowers base SPEED. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Speed stat. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base Speed stat. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its base Speed. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. Using it on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but lowers its Speed base points.
Cornn Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow CORNN. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Cornn Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Beauty, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Magost Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow MAGOST. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Magost Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cuteness, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Rabuta Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow RABUTA. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Rabuta Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cleverness, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Nomel Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow NOMEL. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Nomel Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Toughness, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Spelon Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow SPELON. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Spelon Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cuteness, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Pamtre Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow PAMTRE. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Pamtre Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Beauty, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Watmel Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow WATMEL. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Watmel Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cleverness, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Durin Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow DURIN. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Durin Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Cleverness, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Belue Berry is a Pokémon item. No effect; only useful for planting and cooking. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow BELUE. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. Bury it in soft soil to grow a Belue Plant. In the Sinnoh region, they like to make sweets known as Poffins with this Berry and feed them to their Pokémon. A Berry which is very rare in the Unova region. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A Berry to be used in cooking. This Berry is very rare and hard to obtain in the Unova region. Used to make Pokéblocks that will enhance your Beauty, this Berry is rare in other regions.
Occa Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective fire-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Fire-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Fire-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Fire-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Fire-type attack.
Passho Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective water-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Water-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Water-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Water-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Water-type attack.
Wacan Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective electric-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Electric-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Electric-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Electric-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Electric-type attack.
Rindo Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective grass-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Grass-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Grass-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Grass-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Grass-type attack.
Yache Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective ice-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Ice-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Ice-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Ice-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Ice-type attack.
Chople Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective fighting-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Fighting-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Fighting-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Fighting-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Fighting-type attack.
Kebia Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective poison-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Poison-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Poison-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Poison-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Poison-type attack.
Shuca Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective ground-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Ground-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Ground-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Ground-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Ground-type attack.
Coba Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective flying-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Flying-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Flying-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Flying-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Flying-type attack.
Payapa Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective psychic-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Psychic-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Psychic-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Psychic-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Psychic-type attack.
Tanga Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective bug-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Bug-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Bug-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Bug-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Bug-type attack.
Charti Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective rock-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Rock-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Rock-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Rock-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Rock-type attack.
Kasib Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective ghost-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Ghost-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Ghost-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Ghost-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Ghost-type attack.
Haban Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective dragon-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Dragon-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Dragon-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Dragon-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Dragon-type attack.
Colbur Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective dark-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Dark-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Dark-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Dark-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Dark-type attack.
Babiri Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take super-effective steel-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Steel-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s supereffective Steel-type attack. Weakens a supereffective Steel-type attack against the holding Pokémon. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Steel-type attack.
Chilan Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder would take normal-type damage, it consumes this item to halve the amount of damage taken. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s Normal-type attack. If held by a Pokémon, it weakens a foe’s Normal-type attack. Weakens a Normal-type attack against the Pokémon holding this berry. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one Normal-type attack.
Liechi Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise its Attack by one stage. A hold item that raises ATTACK in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it raises the ATTACK stat in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Attack stat in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Attack stat in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its Attack stat will increase when it’s in a pinch.
Ganlon Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise its Defense by one stage. A hold item that raises DEFENSE in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it raises the DEFENSE stat in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Defense stat in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Defense stat in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its Defense stat will increase when it’s in a pinch.
Salac Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise its Speed by one stage. A hold item that raises SPEED in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it raises the SPEED stat in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Speed stat in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Speed stat in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its Speed stat will increase when it’s in a pinch.
Petaya Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise its Special Attack by one stage. A hold item that raises SP. ATK in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it raises the SP. ATK stat in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Sp. Atk stat in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Sp. Atk stat in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its Sp. Atk stat will increase when it’s in a pinch.
Apicot Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise its Special Defense by one stage. A hold item that raises SP. DEF in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it raises the SP. DEF stat in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Sp. Def stat in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its Sp. Def stat in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its Sp. Def stat will increase when it’s in a pinch.
Lansat Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise its critical hit chance by one stage. A hold item that ups the critical- hit rate in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it raises the critical-hit ratio in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its critical-hit ratio in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises its critical-hit ratio in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its critical-hit ratio will increase when it’s in a pinch.
Starf Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item to raise a random stat by two stages. A hold item that sharply boosts a stat in a pinch. When held by a POKéMON, it sharply raises one stat in a pinch. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it sharply raises one of its stats in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it sharply raises one of its stats in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, one of its stats will sharply increase when it’s in a pinch.
Enigma Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder takes super-effective damage, it consumes this item to restore 1/4 its max HP. POKéBLOCK ingredient. Plant in loamy soil to grow a mystery. Can be ground up into a powder as an ingredient for medicine. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it restores its HP if it is hit by a foe’s supereffective attack. If held by a Pokémon, it restores its HP if it is hit by a foe’s supereffective attack. If held by a Pokémon, it restores its HP if it is hit by any supereffective attack. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, being hit by a supereffective attack will restore its HP.
Micle Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item, and its next used move has 1.2× its normal accuracy. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it raises the accuracy of a move just once in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it raises the accuracy of a move just once in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, its accuracy will increase just once when it’s in a pinch.
Custap Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder has 1/4 its max HP remaining or less, it consumes this item. On the following turn, the holder will act first among moves with the same priority, regardless of Speed. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, it gets to move first just once in a pinch. If held by a Pokémon, it gets to move first just once in a pinch. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a Pokémon holds one, it will be able to move first just once when it’s in a pinch.
Jaboca Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder takes physical damage, it consumes this item to damage the attacking Pokémon for 1/8 its max HP. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, and if a foe’s physical attack lands, the foe also takes damage. If held by a Pokémon and a foe’s physical attack lands, the foe also takes damage. If held by a Pokémon and a physical attack lands, the attacker also takes damage. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a physical attack hits the Pokémon holding it, the attacker will also be hurt.
Rowap Berry is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder takes special damage, it consumes this item to damage the attacking Pokémon for 1/8 its max HP. A Poffin ingredient. If held by a Pokémon, and if a foe’s special attack lands, the foe also takes damage. If held by a Pokémon and a foe’s special attack lands, the foe also takes damage. If held by a Pokémon and a special attack lands, the attacker also takes damage. A Berry to be consumed by Pokémon. If a special attack hits the Pokémon holding it, the attacker will also be hurt.
Bright Powder is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : Moves targeting the holder have 0.9× chance to hit. A hold item that casts a glare to reduce accuracy. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It casts a tricky glare that lowers the opponent’s accuracy. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It casts a tricky glare that lowers the opponent’s accuracy. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It casts a tricky glare that lowers the opposing Pokémon’s accuracy.
White Herb is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : At the end of each turn, if any of the holder’s stats have a negative stat modifier, the holder consumes this item to remove the modifiers from those stats. A hold item that restores any lowered stat. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It restores any lowered stat in battle. It can be used only once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It restores any lowered stat in battle. It can be used only once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It will restore any lowered stat in battle. It can be used only once.
Macho Brace is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder would gain effort due to battle, it gains double that effort instead. Held in battle : Holder has half its Speed. A hold item that promotes growth, but reduces SPEED. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It promotes strong growth but lowers SPEED while it is held. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stiff and heavy brace that promotes strong growth but lowers Speed. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This stiff, heavy brace helps Pokémon grow strong but cuts Speed in battle.
Exp Share is a Pokémon item. Held : Experience is split across two groups: Pokémon who participated in battle, and Pokémon holding this item. Each Pokémon earns experience as though it had battled alone, divided by the number of Pokémon in its group, then divided by the number of groups. Pokémon holding this item who also participated in battle effectively earn experience twice. Fainted Pokémon never earn experience, and empty groups are ignored; thus, if a single Pokémon is holding this item and the only Pokémon who battled faints from explosion, the holder will gain full experience. A hold item that gets EXP. points from battles. An item to be held by a POKéMON. The holder gets a share of EXP. points without having to battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder gets a share of a battle’s Exp. Points without battling. Turning on this special device will allow all the Pokémon on your team to receive Exp. Points from battles.
Quick Claw is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : Whenever the holder attempts to use a move, it has a 3/16 chance to act first among moves with the same priority. If multiple Pokémon have this effect at the same time, Speed is the tie-breaker as normal, but the effect of trick room is ignored. A hold item that occasionally allows the first strike. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A light and sharp claw. The holder may be able to strike first. An item to be held by a Pokémon. A light, sharp claw that lets the bearer move first occasionally. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This light, sharp claw lets the bearer move first occasionally.
Soothe Bell is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder would earn happiness for any reason, it earns twice that amount instead. A hold item that calms spirits and fosters friendship. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A bell with a comforting chime that makes the holder calm and friendly. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a bell with a comforting chime that calms the holder and makes it friendly. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The comforting chime of this bell calms the holder, making it friendly.
Mental Herb is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : When the holder is attracted, it consumes this item to cure the attraction. A hold item that snaps POKéMON out of infatuation. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It snaps the holder out of infatuation. It can be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It snaps the holder out of infatuation. It can be used only once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder shakes off move-binding effects to move freely. It can be used only once.
Choice Band is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : Holder has 1.5× its Attack. When the holder attempts to use a move, all its other moves are disabled until it leaves battle or loses this item. The restriction ends even if this item is swapped for another Choice item via trick or switcheroo. Raises a move’s power, but permits only that move. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It powers up one move, which becomes the only usable one. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This headband ups Attack, but allows the use of only one kind of move. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This headband ups Attack, but allows the use of only one of its moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This curious headband boosts Attack but only allows the use of one move.
Kings Rock is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : Holder’s damaging moves have a 10% chance to make their target flinch. This chance applies independently to each hit of a multi-hit move. This item’s chance is rolled independently of any other move effects; e.g., a move with a 30% chance to flinch normally will have a 37% total chance to flinch when used with this item, because 3% of the time, both effects activate. Held by poliwhirl or slowbro : Holder evolves into politoed or slowking, respectively, when traded. A hold item that may cause flinching when the foe is hit. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It may cause the foe to flinch upon taking damage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It may cause the foe to flinch when the holder inflicts damage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. When the holder inflicts damage, the target may flinch. An item to be held by a Pokémon. When the holder successfully inflicts damage, the target may also flinch.
Silver Powder is a Pokémon item. Held in battle : Holder’s bug-type moves have 1.2× their power. A hold item that raises the power of BUG-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A shiny silver powder that boosts the power of BUG-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a shiny, silver powder that ups the power of Bug-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a shiny, silver powder that will boost the power of Bug-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a shiny, silver powder that will boost the power of Bug-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a shiny silver powder that will boost the power of Bug-type moves.
Amulet Coin is a Pokémon item. Held : If the holder participated in a trainer battle, the trainer earns twice the usual prize money. This effect applies even if the holder fainted. This effect does not stack with any other similar effect. Doubles money in battle if the holder takes part. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It doubles the battle money if the holding POKéMON takes part. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It doubles a battle’s prize money if the holding Pokémon joins in. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It doubles any prize money received if the holding Pokémon joins a battle.
Cleanse Tag is a Pokémon item. Held by lead Pokémon: Prevents wild battles with Pokémon that are lower level than the holder. A hold item that helps repel wild POKéMON. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It repels wild POKéMON if the holder is first in the party. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It helps keep wild Pokémon away if the holder is the first one in the party. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It helps keep wild Pokémon away if the holder is the head of the party.
Soul Dew is a Pokémon item. Held by Latias or Latios: Increases the holder’s Special Attack and Special Defense by 50%. Hold item: Raises SP. ATK & SP. DEF of LATIOS & LATIAS. Hold item: raises SP. ATK & SP. DEF of LATIOS & LATIAS. An orb to be held by a LATIOS or LATIAS. It raises the SP. ATK and SP. DEF stats. A wondrous orb to be held by LATIOS or LATIAS. It raises both the Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats. A wondrous orb to be held by Latios or Latias. It raises both the Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats. A wondrous orb to be held by either Latios or Latias. It raises both the Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats. A wondrous orb to be held by either Latios or Latias. It raises the power of Psychic- and Dragon-type moves.
Deep Sea Tooth is a Pokémon item. Held by Clamperl: Doubles the holder’s Special Attack. Evolves the holder into Huntail when traded. A hold item that raises the SP. ATK of CLAMPERL. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A fang that gleams a sharp silver. It raises the SP. ATK stat. An item to be held by CLAMPERL. A fang that gleams a sharp silver, it raises the Sp. Atk stat. An item to be held by Clamperl. A fang that gleams a sharp silver, it raises the Sp. Atk stat. An item to be held by Clamperl. This fang gleams a sharp silver and raises the holder’s Sp. Atk stat.
Deep Sea Scale is a Pokémon item. Held by Clamperl: Doubles the holder’s Special Defense. Evolves the holder into Gorebyss when traded. A hold item that raises the SP. DEF of CLAMPERL. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A scale that shines a faint pink. It raises the SP. DEF stat. An item to be held by CLAMPERL. A scale that shines a faint pink, it raises the Sp. Def stat. An item to be held by Clamperl. A scale that shines a faint pink, it raises the Sp. Def stat. An item to be held by Clamperl. This scale shines with a faint pink and raises the holder’s Sp. Def stat.
Smoke Ball is a Pokémon item. Held: In wild battles, attempts to run away on the holder’s turn will always succeed. A hold item that can be used to flee from a wild POKéMON. A hold item that assures fleeing from wild POKéMON. An item to be held by a POKéMON. The holding POKéMON can flee from any wild POKéMON for sure. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It enables the holder to flee from any wild Pokémon without fail. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It enables the holder to flee from any wild Pokémon encounter without fail.
Everstone is a Pokémon item. Held: Prevents the holder from evolving naturally. Evolution initiated by the trainer (Stones, etc) will still work. A wondrous stone & a hold item that prevents evolution. A wondrous hold item that prevents evolution. An item to be held by a POKéMON. The holding POKéMON is prevented from evolving. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The Pokémon holding this peculiar stone is prevented from evolving. An item to be held by a Pokémon. A Pokémon holding this peculiar stone is prevented from evolving.
Focus Band is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder is attacked for regular damage that would faint it, this item has a 10% chance to prevent the holder’s HP from lowering below 1. A hold item that occasionally prevents fainting. An item to be held by a POKéMON. The holding POKéMON may endure an attack, leaving just 1 HP. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder may endure a potential KO attack, leaving it with just 1 HP.
Lucky Egg is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases any Exp the holder gains by 50%. A hold item that boosts EXP. points earned in battle. An item to be held by a POKéMON. An egg filled with happiness that earns extra EXP. points in battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an egg filled with happiness that earns extra Exp. Points in battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s an egg filled with happiness that earns extra Exp. Points in battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s an egg filled with happiness that earns the holder extra Exp. Points in battle.
Scope Lens is a Pokémon item. Held: Raises the holder’s critical hit counter by 1. A hold item that raises the critical- hit rate. A hold item that improves the critical-hit rate. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A lens that boosts the critical-hit ratio of the holding POKéMON. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a lens that boosts the holder’s critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a lens for scoping out weak points. It boosts the holder’s critical-hit ratio.
Metal Coat is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Steel moves by 20%. Held by Onix or Scyther: Evolves the holder into Steelix or Scizor when traded, respectively. A hold item that raises the power of STEEL-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A special metallic film that boosts the power of STEEL-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a special metallic film that ups the power of Steel-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a special metallic film that can boost the power of Steel-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a special metallic film that can boost the power of Steel-type moves.
Leftovers is a Pokémon item. Held: Heals the holder by 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. A hold item that gradually restores HP in battle. An item to be held by a POKéMON. The holding POKéMON gradually regains HP during battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder’s HP is gradually restored during battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder’s HP is slowly but steadily restored throughout every battle.
Dragon Scale is a Pokémon item. Held by Seadra: Evolves the holder into Kingdra when traded. A strange scale held by DRAGON- type POKéMON. A thick and tough scale. A DRAGON-type POKéMON may be holding it. A thick and tough scale. Dragon-type Pokémon may be holding this item when caught. A very tough and inflexible scale. Dragon-type Pokémon may be holding this item when caught.
Light Ball is a Pokémon item. Held by Pikachu: Doubles the holder’s initial Attack and Special Attack. A hold item that raises the SP. ATK of PIKACHU. An orb to be held by a PIKACHU that raises the SP. ATK stat. Touching it may cause a shock. An item to be held by PIKACHU. It is a puzzling orb that raises the Sp. Atk stat. An item to be held by PIKACHU. It is a puzzling orb that raises the Attack and Sp. Atk stat. An item to be held by Pikachu. It is a puzzling orb that raises the Attack and Sp. Atk stat. An item to be held by Pikachu. It’s a puzzling orb that boosts its Attack and Sp. Atk stats.
Soft Sand is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Ground moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of GROUND-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A loose, silky sand that boosts the power of GROUND-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a loose, silky sand that boosts the power of Ground-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a loose, silky sand that boosts the power of Ground-type moves.
Hard Stone is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Rock moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of ROCK-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. An unbreakable stone that boosts the power of ROCK-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an unbreakable stone that ups the power of Rock-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a durable stone that boosts the power of Rock-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a durable stone that boosts the power of Rock-type moves.
Miracle Seed is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Grass moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of GRASS-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A seed imbued with life that boosts the power of GRASS-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a seed imbued with life that ups the power of Grass-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a seed imbued with life force that boosts the power of Grass-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a seed imbued with life force that boosts the power of Grass-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a seed imbued with life-force that boosts the power of Grass-type moves.
Black Glasses is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Dark moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of DARK-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A shady-looking pair of glasses that boosts DARK-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a shady-looking pair of glasses that boosts Dark-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. A pair of shady-looking glasses that boost the power of Dark-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a pair of shady-looking glasses that boost the power of Dark-type moves.
Black Belt is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Fighting moves by 20%. A hold item that boosts FIGHTING- type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A belt that boosts determination and FIGHTING-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a belt that boosts determination and Fighting-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This belt helps the wearer to focus and boosts the power of Fighting-type moves.
Magnet is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Electric moves by 20%. A hold item that boosts ELECTRIC- type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A powerful magnet that boosts the power of ELECTRIC-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a powerful magnet that boosts the power of Electric-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a powerful magnet that boosts the power of Electric-type moves.
Mystic Water is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Water moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of WATER-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A teardrop-shaped gem that boosts the power of WATER-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a teardrop-shaped gem that ups the power of Water-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This teardrop-shaped gem boosts the power of Water-type moves.
Sharp Beak is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Flying moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of FLYING-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A long, sharp beak that boosts the power of FLYING-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a long, sharp beak that boosts the power of Flying-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a long, sharp beak that boosts the power of Flying-type moves.
Poison Barb is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Poison moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of POISON-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A small, poisonous barb that boosts the power of POISON-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a small, poisonous barb that ups the power of Poison-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This small, poisonous barb boosts the power of Poison-type moves.
Never Melt Ice is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Ice moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of ICE-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of ice that repels heat and boosts ICE-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a piece of ice that repels heat and boosts Ice-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a piece of ice that repels heat effects and boosts Ice-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a heat- repelling piece of ice that boosts the power of Ice-type moves.
Spell Tag is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Ghost moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of GHOST-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A sinister, eerie tag that boosts GHOST-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a sinister, eerie tag that boosts the power of Ghost-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a sinister, eerie tag that boosts the power of Ghost-type moves.
Twisted Spoon is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Psychic moves by 20%. A hold item that boosts PSYCHIC- type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A spoon imbued with telekinetic power boosts PSYCHIC-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a spoon imbued with telekinetic power that boosts Psychic-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This spoon is imbued with telekinetic power and boosts Psychic-type moves.
Charcoal is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Fire moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of FIRE-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A combustible fuel that boosts the power of FIRE-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a combustible fuel that boosts the power of Fire-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a combustible fuel that boosts the power of Fire-type moves.
Dragon Fang is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Dragon moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of DRAGON-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A hard and sharp fang that boosts the power of DRAGON-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a hard and sharp fang that ups the power of Dragon-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This hard and sharp fang boosts the power of Dragon-type moves.
Silk Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Normal moves by 20%. A hold item that raises the power of NORMAL-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. A sumptuous scarf that boosts the power of NORMAL-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a sumptuous scarf that boosts the power of Normal-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a sumptuous scarf that boosts the power of Normal-type moves.
Up Grade is a Pokémon item. Held by Porygon: Evolves the holder into Porygon2 when traded. A peculiar box made by SILPH CO. A transparent device filled with all sorts of data. It is made by SILPH CO. A transparent device filled with all sorts of data. It was produced by Silph Co. A transparent device somehow filled with all sorts of data. It was produced by Silph Co.
Shell Bell is a Pokémon item. Held: Heals the holder by 1/8 of any damage it inflicts. A hold item that restores HP upon striking the foe. An item to be held by a POKéMON. The holding POKéMON regains some HP upon striking the foe. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder’s HP is restored a little every time it inflicts damage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder regains a little HP every time it inflicts damage on others. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder restores a little HP every time it inflicts damage on others.
Sea Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Water moves by 20%. A hold item that slightly boosts WATER-type moves. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It slightly boosts the power of WATER-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is incense with a curious aroma that boosts the power of Water-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This incense has a curious aroma that boosts the power of Water-type moves.
Lax Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Evasion by 5%. A hold item that slightly lowers the foe’s accuracy. An item to be held by a POKéMON. Its tricky aroma slightly reduces the foe’s accuracy. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The tricky aroma of this incense lowers the foe’s accuracy. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The tricky aroma of this incense may make attacks miss the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The beguiling aroma of this incense may cause attacks to miss its holder.
Lucky Punch is a Pokémon item. Held by Chansey: Raises the holder’s critical hit counter by 2. A hold item that raises CHANSEY’s critical-hit rate. A glove to be held by a CHANSEY. It raises CHANSEY’s critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by CHANSEY. It is a pair of gloves that boosts CHANSEY’s critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by Chansey. It is a pair of gloves that boosts Chansey’s critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by Chansey. This pair of lucky boxing gloves will boost Chansey’s critical-hit ratio.
Metal Powder is a Pokémon item. Held by Ditto: Increases the holder’s initial Defense and Special Defense by 50%. A hold item that raises DEFENSE. A hold item that raises DITTO’s DEFENSE. A fine, hard powder to be held by a DITTO. It raises DITTO’s DEFENSE stat. An item to be held by DITTO. Extremely fine yet hard, this odd powder boosts the Defense stat. An item to be held by Ditto. Extremely fine yet hard, this odd powder boosts the Defense stat.
Thick Club is a Pokémon item. Held by Cubone or Marowak: Doubles the holder’s Attack. A bone of some sort. It can be sold cheaply. A hold item that raises CUBONE or MAROWAK’s ATTACK. A hard bone of some sort to be held by a CUBONE or MAROWAK. It raises the ATTACK stat. An item to be held by CUBONE or MAROWAK. It is a hard bone of some sort that boosts the Attack stat. An item to be held by Cubone or Marowak. It is a hard bone of some sort that boosts the Attack stat. An item to be held by Cubone or Marowak. It’s a hard bone of some sort that boosts the Attack stat.
Stick is a Pokémon item. Held by Farfetch’d: Raises the holder’s critical hit counter by 2. A stick of leek. It can be sold cheaply. A hold item that raises FARFETCH’D’s critical-hit ratio. A stick of leek to be held by a FARFETCH’D. It raises FARFETCH’D’s critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by FARFETCH’D. It is a very long and stiff stalk of leek that boosts the critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by Farfetch’d. It is a very long and stiff stalk of leek that boosts the critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by Farfetch’d. This very long and stiff stalk of leek boosts its critical-hit ratio.
Red Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Coolness during a Super Contest’s Visual Competition. A hold item that raises COOL in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It boosts the holding POKéMON’s COOL condition in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Cool” aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Cool” aspect of the holder in a Contest in Sinnoh. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the Cool aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a Contest, it raises the Cool aspect of the Pokémon holding it. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a contest, it raises the Cool aspect of the Pokémon holding it.
Blue Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Beauty during a Super Contest’s Visual Competition. A hold item that raises BEAUTY in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It boosts the holding POKéMON’s BEAUTY condition in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Beauty” aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Beauty” aspect of the holder in a Contest in Sinnoh. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the Beauty aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a Contest, it raises the Beauty aspect of the Pokémon holding it. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a contest, it raises the Beauty aspect of the Pokémon holding it.
Pink Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Cuteness during a Super Contest’s Visual Competition. A hold item that raises CUTE in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It boosts the holding POKéMON’s CUTE condition in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Cute” aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Cute” aspect of the holder in a Contest in Sinnoh. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the Cute aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a Contest, it raises the Cute aspect of the Pokémon holding it. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a contest, it raises the Cute aspect of the Pokémon holding it.
Green Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Smartness during a Super Contest’s Visual Competition. A hold item that raises SMART in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It boosts the holding POKéMON’s SMART condition in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Smart” aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Smart” aspect of the holder in a Contest in Sinnoh. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the Smart aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a Contest, it raises the Smart aspect of the Pokémon holding it. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a contest, it raises the Clever aspect of the Pokémon holding it.
Yellow Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Toughness during a Super Contest’s Visual Competition. A hold item that raises TOUGH in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a POKéMON. It boosts the holding POKéMON’s TOUGH condition in CONTESTS. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Tough” aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the “Tough” aspect of the holder in a Contest in Sinnoh. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the Tough aspect of the holder in a Contest. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a Contest, it raises the Tough aspect of the Pokémon holding it. An item to be held by a Pokémon. During a contest, it raises the Tough aspect of the Pokémon holding it.
Wide Lens is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the accuracy of any move the holder uses by 10% (multiplied; i.e. 70% accuracy is increased to 77%). An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a magnifying lens that slightly boosts the accuracy of moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a magnifying lens that slightly boosts the accuracy of moves.
Muscle Band is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s physical moves by 10%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a headband that slightly boosts the power of physical moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This headband exudes strength, slightly boosting the power of physical moves.
Wise Glasses is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s special moves by 10%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a thick pair of glasses that slightly boosts the power of special moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This thick pair of glasses slightly boosts the power of special moves.
Expert Belt is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder hits with a super-effective move, its power is raised by 20%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a well-worn belt that slightly boosts the power of supereffective moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a well-worn belt that slightly boosts the power of supereffective moves.
Light Clay is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder’s Reflect and Light Screen will create effects lasting for eight turns rather than five. As this item affects the move rather than the barrier itself, the effect is not lost if the holder leaves battle or drops this item. A Pokémon hold item that extends the duration of barrier moves like Light Screen and Reflect used by the holder. A Pokémon held item that extends the duration of barrier moves like Light Screen and Reflect used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. Protective moves like Light Screen and Reflect will be effective longer.
Life Orb is a Pokémon item. Held: Damage from the holder’s moves is increased by 30%. On each turn the holder uses a damage-inflicting move, it takes 10% its max HP in damage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the power of moves, but at the cost of some HP on each hit. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the power of moves but at the cost of some HP on each hit.
Power Herb is a Pokémon item. Held: Whenever the holder uses a move that requires a turn to charge first (Bounce, Dig, Dive, Fly, Razor Wind, Skull Bash, Sky Attack, or Solarbeam), this item is consumed and the charge is skipped. Skull Bash still provides a Defense boost. A single-use item to be held by a Pokémon. It allows the immediate use of a move that charges on the first turn. A single-use item to be held by a Pokémon. It allows the holder to immediately use a move that normally requires a turn to charge.
Toxic Orb is a Pokémon item. Held: Badly poisons the holder at the end of each turn. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a bizarre orb that badly poisons the holder in battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a bizarre orb that will badly poison the holder during battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a bizarre orb that will badly poison the holder during battle.
Flame Orb is a Pokémon item. Held: Burns the holder at the end of each turn. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a bizarre orb that inflicts a burn on the holder in battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a bizarre orb that will afflict the holder with a burn during battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a bizarre orb that will afflict the holder with a burn during battle.
Quick Powder is a Pokémon item. Held by Ditto: Doubles the holder’s initial Speed. An item to be held by DITTO. Extremely fine yet hard, this odd powder boosts the Speed stat. An item to be held by Ditto. Extremely fine yet hard, this odd powder boosts the Speed stat.
Focus Sash is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder has full HP and is attacked for regular damage that would faint it, this item is consumed and prevents the holder’s HP from lowering below 1. This effect works against multi-hit attacks, but does not work against the effects of Doom Desire or Future Sight. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If it has full HP, the holder will endure one potential KO attack, leaving 1 HP. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder has full HP, it will endure a potential KO attack with 1 HP. The item then disappears.
Zoom Lens is a Pokémon item. Held: Raises the holder’s Accuracy by 20% when it goes last. Ingame description is incorrect. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder moves after the foe, its critical-hit ratio will be boosted. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder moves after the foe, its accuracy will be boosted. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder moves after its target, its accuracy will be boosted. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder moves after its target moves, its accuracy will be boosted.
Metronome is a Pokémon item. Held: Each time the holder uses the same move consecutively, its power is increased by another 10% of its original, to a maximum of 100%. A Pokémon hold item that boosts a move used consecutively. Its effect is reset if another move is used. A Pokémon held item that boosts a move used consecutively. Its effect is reset if another move is used. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts moves used consecutively, but only until a different move is used. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts moves used consecutively but only until a different move is used.
Iron Ball is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. If the holder is Flying or has Levitate, it takes regular damage from Ground attacks and is suspectible to Spikes and Toxic Spikes. A Pokémon hold item that cuts Speed. It makes Flying-type and levitating holders susceptible to Ground moves. A Pokémon held item that cuts Speed. It makes Flying-type and levitating holders susceptible to Ground moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It lowers Speed and allows Ground-type moves to hit Flying-type and levitating holders. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It lowers Speed and allows Ground-type moves to hit Flying types and holders that are levitating.
Lagging Tail is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder will go last within its move’s priority bracket, regardless of Speed. If multiple Pokémon within the same priority bracket are subject to this effect, the slower Pokémon will go first. The holder will move after Pokémon with Stall. If the holder has Stall, Stall is ignored. This item ignores Trick Room. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is tremendously heavy and makes the holder move slower than usual.
Destiny Knot is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder becomes Attracted, the Pokémon it is Attracted to becomes Attracted back. A long, thin, bright red string to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder becomes infatuated, the foe does too. A long, thin, bright-red string to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder becomes infatuated, the foe does too. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder becomes infatuated, the opposing Pokémon will be, too.
Black Sludge is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder is Poison-type, restores 1/16 max HP at the end of each turn. Otherwise, damages the holder by 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. A hold item that gradually restores the HP of Poison-type Pokémon. It inflicts damage on all other types. A held item that gradually restores the HP of Poison-type Pokémon. It inflicts damage on all other types. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It gradually restores HP to Poison-type Pokémon. It damages any other type.
Icy Rock is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder’s Hail will create a hailstorm lasting for eight turns rather than five. As this item affects the move rather than the weather itself, the effect is not lost if the holder leaves battle or drops this item. A Pokémon hold item that extends the duration of the move Hail used by the holder. A Pokémon held item that extends the duration of the move Hail used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of the move Hail when it’s used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of the move Hail when used by the holder.
Smooth Rock is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder’s Sandstorm will create a sandstorm lasting for eight turns rather than five. As this item affects the move rather than the weather itself, the effect is not lost if the holder leaves battle or drops this item. A Pokémon hold item that extends the duration of the move Sandstorm used by the holder. A Pokémon held item that extends the duration of the move Sandstorm used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of the move Sandstorm when used by the holder.
Heat Rock is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder’s Sunny Day will create sunshine lasting for eight turns rather than five. As this item affects the move rather than the weather itself, the effect is not lost if the holder leaves battle or drops this item. A Pokémon hold item that extends the duration of the move Sunny Day used by the holder. A Pokémon held item that extends the duration of the move Sunny Day used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of the move Sunny Day when used by the holder.
Damp Rock is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder’s Rain Dance will create rain lasting for eight turns rather than five. As this item affects the move rather than the weather itself, the effect is not lost if the holder leaves battle or drops this item. A Pokémon hold item that extends the duration of the move Rain Dance used by the holder. A Pokémon held item that extends the duration of the move Rain Dance used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of the move Rain Dance when used by the holder.
Grip Claw is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the duration of the holder’s multiturn (2-5 turn) moves by three turns. A Pokémon hold item that extends the duration of multiturn attacks like Bind and Wrap. A Pokémon held item that extends the duration of multiturn attacks like Bind and Wrap. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of multi-turn attacks like Bind and Wrap. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of multi-turn attacks, such as Bind and Wrap.
Choice Scarf is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Speed by 50%, but restricts it to the first move it uses until it leaves battle or loses this item. If this item is swapped for another Choice item via Trick or Switcheroo, the holder’s restriction is still lifted, but it will again be restricted to the next move it uses. (Quirk: If the holder is switched in by U-Turn and it also knows U-Turn, U-Turn becomes its restricted move.) An item to be held by a Pokémon. This scarf boosts Speed, but allows the use of only one kind of move. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This scarf boosts Speed, but allows the use of only one of its moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This curious scarf boosts Speed but only allows the use of one move.
Sticky Barb is a Pokémon item. Held: Damaged the holder for 1/8 its max HP. When the holder is struck by a contact move, damages the attacker for 1/8 its max HP; if the attacker is not holding an item, it will take this item. A hold item that damages the holder on every turn. It may latch on to foes that touch the holder. A held item that damages the holder on every turn. It may latch on to foes that touch the holder. A held item that damages the holder on every turn. It may latch on to foes and allies that touch the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It damages the holder every turn and may latch on to Pokémon that touch the holder.
Power Bracer is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. Whenever the holder gains Attack effort from battle, increases that effort by 4; this applies before the PokéRUS doubling effect. A Pokémon hold item that promotes Attack gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. A Pokémon held item that promotes Attack gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s Attack stat to grow more after battling.
Power Belt is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. Whenever the holder gains Defense effort from battle, increases that effort by 4; this applies before the PokéRUS doubling effect. A Pokémon hold item that promotes Defense gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. A Pokémon held item that promotes Defense gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s Defense stat to grow more after battling.
Power Lens is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. Whenever the holder gains Special Attack effort from battle, increases that effort by 4; this applies before the PokéRUS doubling effect. A Pokémon hold item that promotes Sp. Atk gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. A Pokémon held item that promotes Sp. Atk gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s Sp. Atk stat to grow more after battling.
Power Band is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. Whenever the holder gains Special Defense effort from battle, increases that effort by 4; this applies before the PokéRUS doubling effect. A Pokémon hold item that promotes Sp. Def gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. A Pokémon held item that promotes Sp. Def gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s Sp. Def stat to grow more after battling.
Power Anklet is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. Whenever the holder gains Speed effort from battle, increases that effort by 4; this applies before the PokéRUS doubling effect. A Pokémon hold item that promotes Speed gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. A Pokémon held item that promotes Speed gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s Speed stat to grow more after battling.
Power Weight is a Pokémon item. Held: Decreases the holder’s Speed by 50%. Whenever the holder gains HP effort from battle, increases that effort by 4; this applies before the PokéRUS doubling effect. A Pokémon hold item that promotes HP gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. A Pokémon held item that promotes HP gain on leveling, but reduces the Speed stat. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s maximum HP to grow more after battling. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It reduces Speed but allows the holder’s max HP to grow more after battling.
Shed Shell is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder is unaffected by any moves or abilities that would prevent it from actively leaving battle. A tough, discarded carapace to be held by a Pokémon. It enables the holder to switch with a waiting Pokémon in battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This discarded carapace enables the holder to switch out of battle without fail.
Big Root is a Pokémon item. Held: HP restored from Absorb, Aqua Ring, Drain Punch, Dream Eater, Giga Drain, Ingrain, Leech Life, Leech Seed, and Mega Drain is increased by 30%. Damage inflicted is not affected. A Pokémon hold item that boosts the power of HP-stealing moves to let the holder recover more HP. A Pokémon held item that boosts the power of HP-stealing moves to let the holder recover more HP. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the power of HP-stealing moves so the holder recovers more HP. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the amount of HP the holder recovers from HP-stealing moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts the amount of HP the holder restores from HP-stealing moves.
Choice Specs is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the holder’s Special Attack by 50%, but restricts it to the first move it uses until it leaves battle or loses this item. If this item is swapped for another Choice item via Trick or Switcheroo, the holder’s restriction is still lifted, but it will again be restricted to the next move it uses. (Quirk: If the holder is switched in by U-Turn and it also knows U-Turn, U-Turn becomes its restricted move.) An item to be held by a Pokémon. These distinctive glasses boost Sp. Atk, but allow only one kind of move to be used. An item to be held by a Pokémon. These distinctive glasses boost Sp. Atk but allow the use of only one of its moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. These curious glasses boost Sp. Atk but only allow the use of one move.
Flame Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Fire moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Fire. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Fire-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Fire-type moves.
Splash Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Water moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Water. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Water-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Water-type moves.
Zap Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Electric moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Electric. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Electric-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Electric-type moves.
Meadow Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Grass moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Grass. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Grass-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Grass-type moves.
Icicle Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Ice moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Ice. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Ice-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Ice-type moves.
Fist Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Fighting moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Fighting. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Fighting-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Fighting-type moves.
Toxic Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Poison moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Poison. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Poison-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Poison-type moves.
Earth Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Ground moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Ground. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Ground-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Ground-type moves.
Sky Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Flying moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Flying. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Flying-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Flying-type moves.
Mind Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Psychic moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Psychic. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Psychic-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Psychic-type moves.
Insect Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Bug moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Bug. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Bug-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Bug-type moves.
Stone Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Rock moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Rock. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Rock-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Rock-type moves.
Spooky Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Ghost moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Ghost. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Ghost-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Ghost-type moves.
Draco Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Dragon moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Dragon. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Dragon-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Dragon-type moves.
Dread Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Dark moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Dark. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Dark-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Dark-type moves.
Iron Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Steel moves by 20%. Held by a Multitype Pokémon: Holder’s type becomes Steel. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Steel-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Steel-type moves.
Odd Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Psychic moves by 20%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an exotic-smelling incense that boosts the power of Psychic-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This exotic-smelling incense boosts the power of Psychic-type moves.
Rock Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Rock moves by 20%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an exotic-smelling incense that boosts the power of Rock-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This exotic-smelling incense boosts the power of Rock-type moves.
Full Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: The holder will go last within its move’s priority bracket, regardless of Speed. If multiple Pokémon within the same priority bracket are subject to this effect, the slower Pokémon will go first. The holder will move after Pokémon with Stall. If the holder has Stall, Stall is ignored. This item ignores Trick Room. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an exotic-smelling incense that makes the holder bloated and slow moving. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This exotic-smelling incense makes the holder bloated and slow moving.
Wave Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Water moves by 20%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an exotic-smelling incense that boosts the power of Water-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is incense with a curious aroma that boosts the power of Water-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This exotic-smelling incense boosts the power of Water-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This incense has a curious aroma that boosts the power of Water-type moves.
Rose Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Increases the power of the holder’s Grass moves by 20%. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is an exotic-smelling incense that boosts the power of Grass-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This exotic-smelling incense boosts the power of Grass-type moves.
Luck Incense is a Pokémon item. Held: Doubles the money the trainer receives after an in-game trainer battle. This effect cannot apply more than once to the same battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It doubles a battle’s prize money if the holding Pokémon joins in. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It doubles any prize money received if the holding Pokémon joins a battle.
Pure Incense is a Pokémon item. Held by lead Pokémon: Prevents wild battles with Pokémon that are lower level than the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It helps keep wild Pokémon away if the holder is the first one in the party. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It helps keep wild Pokémon away if the holder is the head of the party.
Protector is a Pokémon item. Held by Rhydon: Evolves the holder into Rhyperior when traded. A protective item of some sort. It is extremely stiff and heavy. It is loved by a certain Pokémon. A protective item of some sort. It is extremely stiff and heavy. It’s loved by a certain Pokémon.
Electirizer is a Pokémon item. Held by Electabuzz: Evolves the holder into Electivire when traded. A box packed with a tremendous amount of electric energy. It is loved by a certain Pokémon. A box packed with a tremendous amount of electric energy. It’s loved by a certain Pokémon.
Magmarizer is a Pokémon item. Held by Magmar: Evolves the holder into Magmortar when traded. A box packed with a tremendous amount of magma energy. It is loved by a certain Pokémon. A box packed with a tremendous amount of magma energy. It’s loved by a certain Pokémon.
Dubious Disc is a Pokémon item. Held by Porygon2: Evolves the holder into Porygon-Z when traded. A transparent device overflowing with dubious data. Its producer is unknown.
Reaper Cloth is a Pokémon item. Held by Dusclops: Evolves the holder into Dusknoir when traded. A cloth imbued with horrifyingly strong spiritual energy. It is loved by a certain Pokémon. A cloth imbued with horrifyingly strong spiritual energy. It’s loved by a certain Pokémon.
Razor Claw is a Pokémon item. Held: Raises the holder’s critical hit counter by 1. Held by Sneasel: Evolves the holder into Weavile when it levels up during the night. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a sharply hooked claw that ups the holder’s critical-hit ratio. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This sharply hooked claw increases the holder’s critical-hit ratio.
Razor Fang is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder attacks with most damaging moves, provides an extra 11.7% (30/256) chance for the target to flinch. Held by Gligar: Evolves the holder into Gliscor when it levels up. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It may cause the foe to flinch when the holder inflicts damage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It may make foes and allies flinch when the holder inflicts damage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. When the holder successfully inflicts damage, the target may also flinch.
Tm01 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Focus Punch to a compatible Pokémon. Powerful, but makes the user flinch if hit by the foe. An attack that is executed last. The user flinches if hit beforehand. The user focuses its mind before launching this attack. It will fail if the user is hit before it is used. The user sharpens its claws to boost its Attack stat and accuracy. The user is roused, and its Attack and Sp. Atk stats increase. The user sticks out its head and attacks by charging straight into the target. This may also make the target flinch. The target is attacked by a kick launched with muscle-packed power.
Tm02 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Dragon Claw to a compatible Pokémon. Hooks and slashes the foe with long, sharp claws. Sharp, huge claws hook and slash the foe quickly and with great power. The user slashes the target with huge, sharp claws. The user slashes the target with huge sharp claws. The target is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves for three turns. Numerous coins are hurled at the target to inflict damage. Money is earned after the battle.
Tm03 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Water Pulse to a compatible Pokémon. Generates an ultrasonic wave that may confuse. An attack with a pulsing blast of water. It may also confuse the foe. The foe is hit with a pulsing blast of water. It may also confuse the target. The user materializes an odd psychic wave to attack the target. This attack does physical damage. The user assists an ally by boosting the power of that ally’s attack. The target is punched with a fiery fist. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Tm04 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Calm Mind to a compatible Pokémon. Raises SP. ATK and SP. DEF by focusing the mind. The user focuses its mind to raise the SP. ATK and SP. DEF stats. The user quietly focuses its mind and calms its spirit to raise its Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats. The user switches places with a different Pokémon instantly, using telekinetic power. The target is punched with an icy fist. This may also leave the target frozen.
Tm05 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Roar to a compatible Pokémon. A savage roar that makes the foe flee to end the battle. The foe is made to switch out with an ally. In the wild, the battle ends. The foe is scared off, to be replaced by another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is scared off and replaced by another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is scared off and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon. The target is scared off, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon. The user goes to sleep for two turns. This fully restores the user’s HP and heals any status conditions. The target is punched with an electrified fist. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Tm06 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Toxic to a compatible Pokémon. Poisons the foe with a toxin that gradually worsens. A move that badly poisons the foe. Its poison damage worsens every turn. A move that leaves the foe badly poisoned. This poison damage worsens every turn. A move that leaves the target badly poisoned. Its poison damage worsens every turn. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from special attacks for five turns. The user flies up into the sky and then strikes its target on the next turn.
Tm07 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Hail to a compatible Pokémon. Summons a hailstorm that hurts all types except ICE. Creates a hailstorm that damages all types except ICE. A hailstorm lasting five turns damages all POKéMON except the ICE-type. Summons a hailstorm that lasts for five turns. The hailstorm damages all types except Ice. The user summons a hailstorm lasting five turns. It damages all Pokémon except the Ice type. Enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. Sharp spikes are shot at the target in rapid succession. They hit two to five times in a row.
Tm08 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Bulk Up to a compatible Pokémon. Bulks up the body to boost both ATTACK & DEFENSE. The user bulks up its body to boost both its ATTACK and DEFENSE stats. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, boosting both its Attack and Defense stats. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, raising both its Attack and Defense stats. The user makes a copy of itself using some of its HP. The copy serves as the user’s decoy. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user can’t move on the next turn.
Tm09 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Bullet Seed to a compatible Pokémon. Shoots 2 to 5 seeds in a row to strike the foe. The user shoots seeds at the foe. Two to five seeds are shot at once. The user forcefully shoots seeds at the foe. Two to five seeds are shot in rapid succession. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid. Its power is doubled if the target is poisoned. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid. This move’s power is doubled if the target is poisoned. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from physical attacks for five turns. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user can’t move on the next turn.
Tm10 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Hidden Power to a compatible Pokémon. The attack power varies among different POKéMON. An attack that varies in type and intensity depending on the user. A variable move that changes type and power depending on the hidden ability of the Pokémon using it. A unique attack that varies in type and intensity depending on the Pokémon using it. A unique attack that varies in type depending on the Pokémon using it. The user burrows into the ground, then attacks on the next turn. The user scatters curious leaves that chase the target. This attack never misses.
Tm11 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Sunny Day to a compatible Pokémon. Raises the power of FIRE-type moves for 5 turns. The sun blazes for five turns, powering up FIRE-type moves. The user intensifies the sun for five turns, powering up Fire-type moves. The user intensifies the sun for five turns, powering up Fire-type moves. This also weakens the power of Water-type moves. The user shoots a sinister flame at the target to inflict a burn. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn.
Tm12 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Taunt to a compatible Pokémon. Enrages the foe so it can only use attack moves. The foe is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves. The foe is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves for two to four turns. The target is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves for three turns. This attack move doubles its power if the user is poisoned, burned, or paralyzed. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light and fills a blade with the light’s energy, attacking the target on the next turn.
Tm13 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Ice Beam to a compatible Pokémon. Fires an icy cold beam that may freeze the foe. The foe is struck with an icy beam. It may freeze the foe solid. The foe is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. It may also freeze the target solid. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. It may also freeze the target solid. The target is struck with an icy- cold beam of energy. This may also leave the target frozen. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. This may also leave the target frozen. The user attacks with a swift chop. It can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect. The target becomes trapped within a fierce vortex of fire that rages for four to five turns.
Tm14 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Blizzard to a compatible Pokémon. A vicious snow-and- wind attack that may freeze the foe. A brutal snow-and- wind attack that may freeze the foe. The foe is blasted with a blizzard. It may freeze the foe solid. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike the foe. It may also freeze the target solid. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike the opposing team. It may also freeze them solid. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike opposing Pokémon. This may also leave the opposing Pokémon frozen. The user flies up into the sky and then strikes its target on the next turn. The user launches a weak jolt of electricity that paralyzes the target.
Tm15 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Hyper Beam to a compatible Pokémon. Powerful, but needs recharging the next turn. A severely damaging attack that makes the user rest on the next turn. The foe is attacked with a powerful beam. The user must rest on the next turn to regain its energy. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user must rest on the next turn to regain its energy. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user can’t move on the next turn. The target is thrown using the power of gravity. It inflicts damage equal to the user’s level. The user burrows into the ground, then attacks on the next turn.
Tm16 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Light Screen to a compatible Pokémon. Creates a wall of light that lowers SP. ATK damage. A wall of light cuts damage from SP. ATK attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to suppress damage from special attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from special attacks for five turns. The user launches a weak jolt of electricity that paralyzes the target. An earsplitting screech harshly lowers the target’s Defense stat.
Tm17 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Protect to a compatible Pokémon. Negates all damage, but may fail if used in succession. Enables the user to evade all attacks. It may fail if used in succession. It enables the user to evade all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. Enables the user to evade all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. The target is knocked away, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from special attacks for five turns.
Tm18 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rain Dance to a compatible Pokémon. Raises the power of WATER-type moves for 5 turns. A heavy rain falls for five turns, powering up WATER- type moves. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water-type moves. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water-type moves. It lowers the power of Fire-type moves. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from physical attacks for five turns.
Tm19 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Giga Drain to a compatible Pokémon. Recovers half the HP of the damage this move inflicts. A harsh attack that absorbs half the damage it inflicted to restore HP. A nutrient-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user makes the target float with its psychic power. The target is easier to hit for three turns. The user lands and rests its body. It restores the user’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The target is slammed with a steel-hard tail. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user creates a protective field that prevents status conditions for five turns.
Tm20 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Safeguard to a compatible Pokémon. Prevents status abnormality with a mystical power. It protects the user’s party from all status problems for five turns. The user creates a protective field that prevents status problems like poison, paralysis, burn, and sleep. The user creates a protective field that prevents status problems for five turns. The user creates a protective field that prevents status conditions for five turns. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with dark thoughts. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks everything around it by causing an explosion. The user faints upon using this move.
Tm21 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Frustration to a compatible Pokémon. The less the user likes you, the more powerful this move. This attack move grows more powerful the less the user likes its TRAINER. A full-power attack that grows more powerful the less the user likes its Trainer. This full-power attack grows more powerful the less the user likes its Trainer. The user turns the target’s power against it. The higher the target’s Attack stat, the greater the damage it deals. The user goes to sleep for two turns. This fully restores the user’s HP and heals any status conditions.
Tm22 is a Pokémon item. Teaches SolarBeam to a compatible Pokémon. Absorbs sunlight in the 1st turn, then attacks next turn. A 2-turn move that blasts the foe with absorbed energy in the 2nd turn. A two-turn attack. The user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the second turn. A two-turn attack. The user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn. Large boulders are hurled at the opposing Pokémon to inflict damage. This may also make the opposing Pokémon flinch. Large boulders are hurled at opposing Pokémon to inflict damage. This may also make the opposing Pokémon flinch.
Tm23 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Iron Tail to a compatible Pokémon. Slams the foe with a hard tail. It may lower DEFENSE. An attack with a steel-hard tail. It may lower the foe’s DEFENSE stat. The foe is slammed with a sturdy tail of steel. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat if it hits. The user throws a stone or projectile to attack an opponent. A flying Pokémon will fall to the ground when it’s hit. The user throws a stone or similar projectile to attack an opponent. A flying Pokémon will fall to the ground when it’s hit. The target is punched with an electrified fist. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user attacks and steals the target’s held item simultaneously. The user can’t steal anything if it already holds an item.
Tm24 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Thunderbolt to a compatible Pokémon. A powerful electric attack that may cause paralysis. A strong electrical attack that may also leave the foe paralyzed. A strong electric blast is loosed at the foe. It may also leave the foe paralyzed. A strong electric blast is loosed at the target. It may also leave the target with paralysis. A strong electric blast crashes down on the target. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user slashes at the target by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors. This attack can be used only if the user is asleep. The harsh noise may also make the target flinch.
Tm25 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Thunder to a compatible Pokémon. Strikes the foe with a thunderbolt. It may paralyze. A brutal lightning attack that may also leave the foe paralyzed. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the foe to inflict damage. It may also leave the target paralyzed. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the target to inflict damage. It may also leave the target with paralysis. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the target to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch. This move enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Tm26 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Earthquake to a compatible Pokémon. Causes a quake that has no effect on flying foes. An earthquake that strikes all POKéMON in battle excluding the user. The user sets off an earthquake that hits all the Pokémon in the battle. The user sets off an earthquake that strikes every Pokémon around it. The target is stabbed with a tentacle, arm, or the like steeped in poison. This may also poison the target. The user frightens the target with a scary face to harshly lower its Speed stat.
Tm27 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Return to a compatible Pokémon. The more the user likes you, the more powerful this move. This attack move grows more powerful the more the user likes its TRAINER. A full-power attack that grows more powerful the more the user likes its Trainer. This full-power attack grows more powerful the more the user likes its Trainer. A move that leaves the target badly poisoned. Its poison damage worsens every turn. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. This also lowers opposing Pokémon’s Speed stats.
Tm28 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Dig to a compatible Pokémon. Digs underground the 1st turn, then strikes next turn. An attack that hits on the 2nd turn. Can also be used to exit dungeons. The user burrows, then attacks on the second turn. It can also be used to exit dungeons. The user burrows, then attacks on the next turn. It can also be used to exit dungeons. The user drains the target’s blood. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user strikes with a simultaneous three-beam attack. This may also burn, freeze, or paralyze the target. A nutrient-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target.
Tm29 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Psychic to a compatible Pokémon. A powerful psychic attack that may lower SP. DEF. A strong telekinetic attack. It may also lower the foe’s SP. DEF stat. The foe is hit by a strong telekinetic force. It may also reduce the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The target is hit by a strong telekinetic force. It may also reduce the target’s Sp. Def stat. The target is hit by a strong telekinetic force. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user shoots boiling hot water at its target. This may also leave the target with a burn. The user gazes at the target rather charmingly, making it less wary. This harshly lowers the target’s Attack stat.
Tm30 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Shadow Ball to a compatible Pokémon. Hurls a dark lump at the foe. It may lower SP. DEF. A shadowy blob is hurled at the foe. May also lower the foe’s SP. DEF. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the foe. It may also lower the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, raising both its Attack and Defense stats. The target is hit with wings of steel. This may also raise the user’s Defense stat.
Tm31 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Brick Break to a compatible Pokémon. Destroys barriers like LIGHT SCREEN and causes damage. An attack that also breaks any barrier like LIGHT SCREEN and REFLECT. The user attacks with tough fists, etc. It can also break any barrier such as Light Screen and Reflect. The user attacks with a swift chop. It can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect. The target is punched with a fiery fist. This may also leave the target with a burn. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the target becomes infatuated and less likely to attack.
Tm32 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Double Team to a compatible Pokémon. Creates illusory copies to enhance elusiveness. The user creates illusory copies of itself to raise its evasiveness. The user begins moving so quickly that it creates illusory copies to raise its evasiveness. By moving rapidly, the user makes illusory copies of itself to raise its evasiveness. The user damages opposing Pokémon by emitting a powerful flash. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except Rock, Ground, and Steel types. It raises the Sp. Def stat of Rock types.
Tm33 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Reflect to a compatible Pokémon. Creates a wall of light that weakens physical attacks. A wall of light cuts damage from physical attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to suppress damage from physical attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from physical attacks for five turns. The user quietly focuses its mind and calms its spirit to raise its Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water-type moves. It lowers the power of Fire-type moves.
Tm34 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Shock Wave to a compatible Pokémon. Zaps the foe with a jolt of electricity that never misses. A rapid jolt of electricity strikes the foe. It can’t be evaded. The user strikes the foe with a quick jolt of electricity. This attack cannot be evaded. It swamps the area around the user with a giant sludge wave. It may also poison those hit. The user strikes everything around it by swamping the area with a giant sludge wave. This may also poison those hit. The target is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user’s gaping mouth. The user intensifies the sun for five turns, powering up Fire-type moves. It lowers the power of Water-type moves.
Tm35 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Flamethrower to a compatible Pokémon. Looses a stream of fire that may burn the foe. The foe is scorched with intense flames. The foe may suffer a burn. The foe is scorched with an intense blast of fire. The target may also be left with a burn. The target is scorched with an intense blast of fire. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is scorched with an intense blast of fire. This may also leave the target with a burn. The target is punched with an icy fist. This may also leave the target frozen. The user summons a hailstorm lasting five turns. It damages all Pokémon except Ice types.
Tm36 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Sludge Bomb to a compatible Pokémon. Hurls sludge at the foe. It may poison the foe. Filthy sludge is hurled at the foe. It may poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the foe. It may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. It may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. This may also poison the target. A strong electric blast crashes down on the target. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user traps the target in a violent swirling whirlpool for four to five turns.
Tm37 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Sandstorm to a compatible Pokémon. Causes a sandstorm that hits the foe over several turns. A 5-turn sandstorm that damages all types except ROCK, GROUND, and STEEL. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except the Rock, Ground, and Steel types. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except for Rock, Ground, and Steel types. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except the Rock, Ground, and Steel types. Raises the Sp. Def of Rock types. The target is scorched with an intense blast of fire. This may also leave the target with a burn. The user gets all party Pokémon to attack the target. The more party Pokémon, the greater the number of attacks.
Tm38 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Fire Blast to a compatible Pokémon. A powerful fire attack that may burn the foe. The foe is hit with an intense flame. It may leave the target with a burn. The foe is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. This may also leave the target with a burn. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the target to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user shoots a sinister flame at the target to inflict a burn.
Tm39 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rock Tomb to a compatible Pokémon. Stops the foe from moving with rocks. May lower SPEED. Boulders are hurled at the foe. It also lowers the foe’s SPEED if it hits. Large boulders are hurled at the foe to inflict damage. It may also make the target flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the foe to inflict damage. It lowers the foe’s Speed. Boulders are hurled at the target. It also lowers the target’s Speed by preventing its movement. Boulders are hurled at the target. This also lowers the target’s Speed stat by preventing its movement. The Pokémon rampages and attacks for two to three turns. It then becomes confused. This attack move doubles its power if the user is poisoned, burned, or paralyzed.
Tm40 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Aerial Ace to a compatible Pokémon. An extremely fast attack that can’t be avoided. An extremely fast attack against one target. It can’t be evaded. The user confounds the foe with speed, then strikes. The attack lands without fail. The user confounds the target with speed, then slashes. The attack lands without fail. The user confounds the target with speed, then slashes. This attack never misses. The target is hit by a strong telekinetic force. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. Star-shaped rays are shot at opposing Pokémon. This attack never misses.
Tm41 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Torment to a compatible Pokémon. Prevents the foe from using the same move in a row. It enrages the foe, making it incapable of using the same move successively. The user torments and enrages the foe, making it incapable of using the same move twice in a row. The user torments and enrages the target, making it incapable of using the same move twice in a row. The user sets off an earthquake that strikes every Pokémon around it. The user assists an ally by boosting the power of that ally’s attack.
Tm42 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Facade to a compatible Pokémon. Raises ATTACK when poisoned, burned, or paralyzed. An attack that is boosted if user is burned, poisoned, or paralyzed. An attack move that doubles its power if the user is poisoned, paralyzed, or has a burn. An attack move that doubles its power if the user is poisoned, burned, or has paralysis. This attack move doubles its power if the user is poisoned or burned, or if it has paralysis. The user attacks everything around it by causing an explosion. The user faints upon using this move. This attack move’s power is doubled if the user has been hurt by the opponent in the same turn.
Tm43 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Secret Power to a compatible Pokémon. Adds an effect to attack depending on the location. An attack that may have an additional effect that varies with the terrain. An attack move with effects that vary depending on the user’s environment. The user cloaks itself with flame and attacks. Building up more power, it raises the user’s Speed stat. Cloaking itself in flame, the user attacks. Then, building up more power, the user raises its Speed stat. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user attacks with a swift chop. It can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect.
Tm44 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rest to a compatible Pokémon. The user sleeps for 2 turns to restore health and status. The user sleeps for two turns to fully restore HP and heal any status problem. The user goes to sleep for two turns. It fully restores the user’s HP and heals any status problem. The user goes to sleep for two turns. This fully restores the user’s HP and heals any status conditions. The user plays rough with the target and attacks it. This may also lower the target’s Attack stat. If opposing Pokémon know any move also known by the user, they are prevented from using it.
Tm45 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Attract to a compatible Pokémon. Makes it tough to attack a foe of the opposite gender. If it is the other gender, the foe is made infatuated and unlikely to attack. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the foe becomes infatuated and less likely to attack. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the target becomes infatuated and less likely to attack. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the next turn.
Tm46 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Thief to a compatible Pokémon. While attacking, it may steal the foe’s held item. An attack that may take the foe’s held item if the user isn’t holding one. The user attacks and steals the foe’s held item simultaneously. It can’t steal if the user holds an item. The user attacks and steals the target’s held item simultaneously. It can’t steal if the user holds an item. The user attacks and steals the target’s held item simultaneously. The user can’t steal anything if it already holds an item. The target is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. This may also leave the target with a burn. This attack move varies in power and type depending on the weather.
Tm47 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Steel Wing to a compatible Pokémon. Spreads hard-edged wings and slams into the foe. Spreads hard- edged wings and slams into the foe. The foe is hit with wings of steel. It may also raise the user’s DEFENSE. The foe is hit with wings of steel. It may also raise the user’s Defense stat. The user attacks the target’s legs swiftly, reducing the target’s Speed stat. The user makes a swift attack on the target’s legs, which lowers the target’s Speed stat. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave. The user feigns crying to fluster the target, harshly lowering its Sp. Def stat.
Tm48 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Skill Swap to a compatible Pokémon. Switches abilities with the foe on the turn this is used. The user employs its psychic power to swap abilities with the foe. The user employs its psychic power to exchange abilities with the foe. The user attacks the target with a song. Others can join in the Round and make the attack do greater damage. The user attacks the target with a song. Others can join in the Round to increase the power of the attack. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user can’t move on the next turn. Boulders are hurled at the target. This also lowers the target’s Speed stat by preventing its movement.
Tm49 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Snatch to a compatible Pokémon. Steals the effects of the move the foe is trying to use. Steals the effects of the foe’s healing or status- changing move. The user steals the effects of any healing or status-changing move the foe attempts to use. The user attacks the target with an echoing voice. If this move is used every turn, it does greater damage. The user attacks the target with an echoing voice. If this move is used every turn, its power is increased. The user attacks the target with great power. However, this also lowers the user’s Attack and Defense stats. The user traps the target inside a harshly raging sandstorm for four to five turns.
Tm50 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Overheat to a compatible Pokémon. Enables full-power attack, but sharply lowers SP. ATK. An intense attack that also sharply reduces the user’s SP. ATK stat. The user attacks the foe at full power using fiery energy. It also sharply reduces the user’s Sp. Atk. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user lands and rests its body. This move restores the user’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The user forcefully shoots seeds at the target two to five times in a row.
Tm51 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Roost to a compatible Pokémon. The user lands and rests its body. It restores the user’s HP by up to half of its top HP. The user lands and rests its body. It restores the user’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The user teleports using a strange power and switches its place with one of its allies. The target is hit with wings of steel. This may also raise the user’s Defense stat. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike opposing Pokémon. This may also leave the opposing Pokémon frozen. The user launches sharp icicles at the target two to five times in a row.
Tm52 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Focus Blast to a compatible Pokémon. The user attacks at full power. It may also lower the foe’s Sp. Def stat if it hits. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. This may also poison the target. The user bounces up high, then drops on the target on the second turn. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Tm53 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Energy Ball to a compatible Pokémon. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the foe. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. A nutrient-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user attacks by hurling a blob of mud at the target. This also lowers the target’s Speed stat.
Tm54 is a Pokémon item. Teaches False Swipe to a compatible Pokémon. A restrained attack that prevents the foe from fainting. The target is left with at least 1 HP. A restrained attack that prevents the target from fainting. The target is left with at least 1 HP. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it all at once. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user hurls hard rocks at the target. Two to five rocks are launched in a row.
Tm55 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Brine to a compatible Pokémon. If the foe’s HP is down to under half, this attack will hit with double the power. The user shoots boiling hot water at its target. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user shoots boiling hot water at its target. This may also leave the target with a burn. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. This may also leave the target frozen. If the target’s HP is half or less, this attack will hit with double the power.
Tm56 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Fling to a compatible Pokémon. The user flings its held item at the foe to attack. Its power and effects depend on the item. The user flings its held item at the target as an attack. Its power and effects depend on the item. The user flings its held item at the target to attack. This move’s power and effects depend on the item. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the opposing team. The trap hurts opposing Pokémon that switch into battle. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Tm57 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Charge Beam to a compatible Pokémon. The user attacks with an electric charge. The user may use any remaining electricity to raise its Sp. Atk stat. Numerous coins are hurled at the target to inflict damage. Money is earned after the battle. The user stores power, then attacks. If the user moves after the target, this attack’s power will be doubled.
Tm58 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Endure to a compatible Pokémon. The user endures any attack, leaving 1 HP. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. The user hurls the target into the air, then drops it on the second turn. The target cannot attack while in the air. The user takes the target into the sky, then drops it during the next turn. The target cannot attack while in the sky. The user crashes into its target while rotating its body like a drill. Critical hits land more easily. If the target has already taken some damage in the same turn, this attack’s power is doubled.
Tm59 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Dragon Pulse to a compatible Pokémon. The foe is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user’s gaping mouth. The user attacks the target with fire. If the target is holding a Berry, the Berry becomes burnt up and unusable. The user attacks opposing Pokémon with fire. If a Pokémon is holding a certain item, such as a Berry, the item becomes burned up and unusable. The user swings its body around violently to inflict damage on everything in its vicinity. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal its own HP. The user flings its held item at the target to attack. This move’s power and effects depend on the item.
Tm60 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Drain Punch to a compatible Pokémon. An energy-draining punch. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user suppresses the target and makes its move go last. Using its tough and impressive horn, the user rams into the target with no letup. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Attack and Sp. Atk stats with the target.
Tm61 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Will-O-Wisp to a compatible Pokémon. The user shoots a sinister, bluish white flame at the foe to inflict a burn. The user shoots a sinister, bluish-white flame at the target to inflict a burn. The user shoots a sinister flame at the target to inflict a burn. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Defense and Sp. Def stats with the target.
Tm62 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Silver Wind to a compatible Pokémon. The foe is attacked with powdery scales blown by wind. It may also raise all the user’s stats. The user nimbly strikes the target. If the user is not holding an item, this attack inflicts massive damage. The user exchanges Speed stats with the target.
Tm63 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Embargo to a compatible Pokémon. It prevents the foe from using its held item. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. It prevents the target from using its held item. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. This move prevents the target from using its held item. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. This move prevents the target from using its held item for five turns. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. An energy-draining punch. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target.
Tm64 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Explosion to a compatible Pokémon. The user explodes to inflict damage on all Pokémon in battle. The user faints upon using this move. The user explodes to inflict damage on those around it. The user faints upon using this move. The user attacks everything around it by causing a tremendous explosion. The user faints upon using this move. The power of this attack move is doubled if the user has been hurt by the target in the same turn.
Tm65 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Shadow Claw to a compatible Pokémon. The user slashes with a sharp claw made from shadows. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user slashes with a sharp claw made from shadows. Critical hits land more easily.
Tm66 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Payback to a compatible Pokémon. The user stores power, then attacks. If the user can use this attack after the foe, its power is doubled. The user stores power, then attacks. If the user can use this attack after the target, its power is doubled. The user stores power, then attacks. If the user moves after the target, this attack’s power will be doubled. The user bites with electrified fangs. This may also make the target flinch or leave it with paralysis.
Tm67 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Recycle to a compatible Pokémon. The user recycles a single-use item that has been used in battle so it can be used again. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this attack’s damage increases. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this move becomes more powerful. The user stabs the target with a sharp horn. The attack never misses. The user bites with cold-infused fangs. This may also make the target flinch or leave it frozen.
Tm68 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Giga Impact to a compatible Pokémon. The user charges the foe using every bit of its power. It must rest on the next turn to recover. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user must rest on the next turn. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user bites with flame-cloaked fangs. This may also make the target flinch or leave it with a burn.
Tm69 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rock Polish to a compatible Pokémon. The user polishes its body to reduce drag. It sharply raises the Speed stat. The user polishes its body to reduce drag. This can sharply raise the Speed stat. The user tears at the target with blades formed by psychic power. Critical hits land more easily.
Tm70 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Flash to a compatible Pokémon. The user flashes a light that cuts the foe’s accuracy. It can also be used to illuminate caves. The user flashes a bright light that cuts the target’s accuracy. It can also be used to illuminate caves. The user flashes a bright light that cuts the target’s accuracy. This move reduces damage from physical and special moves for five turns. This can be used only in a hailstorm. The user creates a bizarre area in which slower Pokémon get to move first for five turns.
Tm71 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Stone Edge to a compatible Pokémon. The user stabs the foe with a sharpened stone from below. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user stabs the foe with sharpened stones from below. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user stabs the target with sharpened stones from below. Critical hits land more easily. The user stabs the target from below with sharpened stones. Critical hits land more easily. The user creates a bizarre area in which Pokémon’s Defense and Sp. Def stats are swapped for five turns.
Tm72 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Avalanche to a compatible Pokémon. An attack move that inflicts double the damage if the user has been hurt by the foe in the same turn. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting. The user creates a bizarre area in which Pokémon’s held items lose their effects for five turns.
Tm73 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Thunder Wave to a compatible Pokémon. A weak electric charge is launched at the foe. It causes paralysis if it hits. A weak electric charge is launched at the target. It causes paralysis if it hits. The user launches a weak jolt of electricity that paralyzes the target. A slashing attack with a poisonous blade that may also poison the target. Critical hits land more easily.
Tm74 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Gyro Ball to a compatible Pokémon. The user tackles the foe from a high-speed spin. The slower the user, the greater the damage. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user, the greater the damage. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user compared to the target, the greater the move’s power. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid. This move’s power is doubled if the target is poisoned.
Tm75 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Swords Dance to a compatible Pokémon. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. It sharply raises the user’s Attack stat. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. This sharply raises the user’s Attack stat. The user makes a swift attack on the target’s legs, which lowers the target’s Speed stat.
Tm76 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Stealth Rock to a compatible Pokémon. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the foe. The trap hurts foes that switch into battle. Resisting, the user attacks the opposing Pokémon. The targets’ Sp. Atk stat is reduced. While resisting, the user attacks the opposing Pokémon. This lowers the Sp. Atk stat of those hit. The user soars and then strikes its target on the next turn. The user flies up into the sky and then strikes its target on the next turn. The user attacks the target with a song. Others can join in the Round to increase the power of the attack.
Tm77 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Psych Up to a compatible Pokémon. The user hypnotizes itself into copying any stat change made by the foe. The user hypnotizes itself into copying any stat change made by the target. This relentless attack does massive damage to a target affected by status conditions.
Tm78 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Captivate to a compatible Pokémon. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the foe is charmed into sharply lowering its Sp. Atk stat. The user stomps down on the ground and attacks everything in the area. The targets’ Speed stat is reduced. The user strikes everything around it by stomping down on the ground. This lowers the Speed stat of those hit. The user nimbly strikes the target. If the user is not holding an item, this attack inflicts massive damage.
Tm79 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Dark Pulse to a compatible Pokémon. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with dark thoughts. It may also make the target flinch. The user blows a cold breath on the target. This attack always results in a critical hit. The user blows its cold breath on the target. This attack always results in a critical hit. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this move’s power is increased.
Tm80 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rock Slide to a compatible Pokémon. Large boulders are hurled at the foe to inflict damage. It may also make the target flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the opposing team to inflict damage. They may also make the targets flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the opposing Pokémon to inflict damage. This may also make the opposing Pokémon flinch. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Tm81 is a Pokémon item. Teaches X-Scissor to a compatible Pokémon. The user slashes at the foe by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors. The user slashes at the target by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors. The user strikes everything around it by stomping down on the ground. This lowers the Speed stats of those hit.
Tm82 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Sleep Talk to a compatible Pokémon. While it is asleep, the user randomly uses one of the moves it knows. The user knocks away the target and drags out another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is knocked away, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon. The user attacks and captures opposing Pokémon using an electric net. This lowers their Speed stats.
Tm83 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Natural Gift to a compatible Pokémon. The user draws power from the Berry it is holding to attack. The Berry determines its type and power. The user is roused, and its Attack and Sp. Atk stats increase. The target is infested and attacked for four to five turns. The target can’t flee during this time. The user cuts its target with sharp shells. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat.
Tm84 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Poison Jab to a compatible Pokémon. The foe is stabbed with a tentacle or arm seeped with poison. It may also poison the foe. The foe is stabbed with a tentacle or arm steeped with poison. It may also poison the foe. The target is stabbed with a tentacle or arm steeped in poison. It may also poison the target. The target is stabbed with a tentacle or arm steeped in poison. This may also poison the target. The target is stabbed with a tentacle, arm, or the like steeped in poison. This may also poison the target. The user attacks by striking the target with its hard tail. It hits the target two to five times in a row.
Tm85 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Dream Eater to a compatible Pokémon. An attack that works only on a sleeping foe. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal the user’s HP. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal the user’s HP. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal its own HP. The user yells as if it’s ranting about something, which lowers the Sp. Atk stats of opposing Pokémon.
Tm86 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Grass Knot to a compatible Pokémon. The user snares the foe with grass and trips it. The heavier the foe, the greater the damage. The user snares the target with grass and trips it. The heavier the target, the greater the damage. The user snares the target with grass and trips it. The heavier the target, the greater the move’s power. The user vanishes somewhere, then strikes the target on the next turn. This move hits even if the target protects itself.
Tm87 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Swagger to a compatible Pokémon. The user enrages the foe into confusion. However, it also sharply raises the foe’s Attack stat. The user enrages and confuses the target. However, it also sharply raises the target’s Attack stat. The user enrages and confuses the target. However, this also sharply raises the target’s Attack stat. The user steals the target’s HP with a kiss. The user’s HP is restored by over half of the damage taken by the target.
Tm88 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Pluck to a compatible Pokémon. The user pecks the foe. If the foe is holding a Berry, the user plucks it and gains its effect. The user pecks the target. If the target is holding a Berry, the user plucks it and gains its effect. While it is asleep, the user randomly uses one of the moves it knows. The user turns the ground to grass for five turns. This restores the HP of Pokémon on the ground a little every turn and powers up Grass-type moves.
Tm89 is a Pokémon item. Teaches U-Turn to a compatible Pokémon. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting. This protects Pokémon on the ground from status conditions and halves damage from Dragon-type moves for five turns.
Tm90 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Substitute to a compatible Pokémon. The user makes a copy of itself using some of its HP. The copy serves as the user’s decoy. The user electrifies the ground for five turns, powering up Electric-type moves. Pokémon on the ground no longer fall asleep.
Tm91 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Flash Cannon to a compatible Pokémon. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it in one shot. It may also lower the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it all at once. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. This protects Pokémon on the ground from priority moves and powers up Psychic-type moves for five turns.
Tm92 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Trick Room to a compatible Pokémon. The user creates a bizarre space in which slower Pokémon get to move first for five turns. The user creates a bizarre area in which slower Pokémon get to move first for five turns. The user attacks by breathing a special, hot fire. This also lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat.
Hm01 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Cut to a compatible Pokémon. Attacks the foe with sharp blades or claws. A basic attack. It can be used to cut down thin trees and grass. The foe is cut with a scythe or a claw. It can also be used to cut down thin trees. The target is cut with a scythe or claw. It can also be used to cut down thin trees. The target is cut with a scythe or claw. This can also be used to cut down thin trees. - - -
Hm02 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Fly to a compatible Pokémon. Flies up on the first turn, then attacks next turn. A 2-turn move that hits on the 2nd turn. Use it to fly to any known town. The user soars, then strikes on the second turn. It can also be used to fly to any familiar town. The user soars and then strikes its target on the next turn. This can also be used to fly to any familiar town. - - -
Hm03 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Surf to a compatible Pokémon. Creates a huge wave, then crashes it down on the foe. A big wave crashes down on the foe. Can also be used for crossing water. It swamps the entire battlefield with a giant wave. It can also be used to cross water. It swamps the area around the user with a giant wave. It can also be used for crossing water. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave. This can also be used for crossing water. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave. - - -
Hm04 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Strength to a compatible Pokémon. Builds enormous power, then slams the foe. The foe is slugged at maximum power. Can also be used to move boulders. The foe is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power. It can also be used to move boulders. The target is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power. This move can also be used to move boulders. The target is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power. This can also be used to move heavy boulders. - - -
Hm05 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Defog to a compatible Pokémon. Looses a powerful blast of light that reduces accuracy. A blast of light that cuts the foe’s accuracy. It also illuminates caves. Obstacles are moved, reducing the foe’s evasion stat. It can also be used to clear deep fog. Traps foes in a violent swirling whirlpool. It can also be used to traverse whirlpools. The user charges the target at an awesome speed. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch. This can also be used to climb a waterfall. - - -
Hm06 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rock Smash to a compatible Pokémon. A rock-crushingly tough attack that may lower DEFENSE. An attack that may also cut DEFENSE. It can also smash cracked boulders. The user slugs the foe with a shattering punch. It can also smash cracked boulders. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the second. It can be used for diving in the ocean. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the next turn. The user attacks with a punch. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. This move can also shatter rocks in the field. - - -
Hm07 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Waterfall to a compatible Pokémon. Attacks the foe with enough power to climb waterfalls. A powerful charge attack. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges the foe at an awesome speed. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the next turn.
Hm08 is a Pokémon item. Teaches Rock Climb to a compatible Pokémon. Dives underwater the 1st turn, then attacks next turn. The user dives underwater on the first turn and strikes next turn. A charging attack that may also leave the foe confused. It can also be used to scale rocky walls.
Explorer Kit is a Pokémon item. Sends the trainer to the Underground. Only usable outside. A bag filled with convenient tools for exploring. It provides access to the Underground. A bag filled with convenient tools for exploring. It provides access to the Underground in the Sinnoh region.
Loot Sack is a Pokémon item. Unused. A sturdy, spacious bag that is used to carry loot obtained in the coal mine. A sturdy, spacious bag that is used to carry any treasures or loot obtained in the coal mine.
Rule Book is a Pokémon item. Unused. It lists the rules for holding battles. For linked battles, you may choose which set of rules you wish to use. It lists the rules for holding battles. For Link Battles, you may choose which set of rules you wish to use.
Poke Radar is a Pokémon item. Designates several nearby patches of grass as containing Pokémon, some of which may be special radar-only Pokémon. Successive uses in a certain way create chains of encounters with the same species; longer chains increase the chance that a shiny Pokémon of that species will appear. A tool that can search out Pokémon that are hiding in grass. Its battery is recharged as you walk. A tool that can search out Pokémon that are hiding in the tall grass. Its battery is recharged as you walk.
Point Card is a Pokémon item. Tracks Battle Points. A card that lists the Battle Points you have earned. A card that lists how many Battle Points you have earned.
Journal is a Pokémon item. Records some of the trainer’s activities for the day. A notebook that keeps a day-to-day record of your adventure so far.
Seal Case is a Pokémon item. Contains Seals used for decorating Pokéballs. A case for storing Seals that can be applied to the capsule cases of Poké Balls. A case for storing Seals that can be applied to the Capsule cases of Poké Balls. A case for storing Seals that can be applied to the exteriors of Poké Balls.
Fashion Case is a Pokémon item. Contains Pokémon Accessories. A fancy case for the tidy and organized storage of colorful Pokémon Accessories. A fancy case for the tidy arrangement and storage of whimsical Pokémon Accessories. A lovely case to store colorful Props for your Pokémon to wear in a musical.
Seal Bag is a Pokémon item. Unused. A tiny bag that can hold ten Seals for decorating Poké Balls. A tiny bag that can hold 10 Seals for decorating Poké Balls.
Pal Pad is a Pokémon item. Contains friend codes for up to 32 other players, as well as their sprite, gender, and basic statistics for those that have been seen on WFC. A convenient notepad that is used for registering your friends and keeping a record of game play. A convenient notepad that is used for registering your friends, Friend Codes, and keeping a record of game play. A convenient notepad that is used to register your Friends and friend codes and keep a record of your gameplay. A convenient notepad that is used to register your friends and friend codes and keep a record of your gameplay.
Works Key is a Pokémon item. Opens the front door of the Valley Windworks. Reusable. A large key for operating the doors of the Valley Windworks in the canyon. It was held by a Team Galactic Grunt.
Old Charm is a Pokémon item. Given to Cynthia’s grandmother to get the Surf HM. An ancient good-luck charm made of Pokémon bones to be taken to the elder of Celestic Town.
Galactic Key is a Pokémon item. Grants access to Galactic HQ in Veilstone City. A card key for disengaging security systems in the Galactic HQ. Losing it can result in punishment, apparently. A card key for disengaging the security systems in the Galactic HQ. Losing it can result in punishment, apparently.
Red Chain is a Pokémon item. Unused. A mythical chain that is said to link the legendary Pokémon that created the Sinnoh region. A mythical chain that is said to link the Legendary Pokémon that created the Sinnoh region.
Town Map is a Pokémon item. Displays a map of the region including the trainer’s position, location names, visited towns, gym locations, and where the trainer has been walking recently. Can be viewed anytime. Shows your present location. A very convenient map that can be viewed anytime. It even shows your present location. A very convenient map that can be viewed anytime. It even shows you your present location in the region.
Vs Seeker is a Pokémon item. Reveals trainers who want a rematch, by showing !! over their heads. Each use drains the battery; requires 100 steps to charge. A rechargeable unit that flags battle- ready TRAINERS. A device that indicates TRAINERS who want to battle. The battery charges while traveling. A device that indicates Trainers who want to battle. Its battery charges while you walk.
Coin Case is a Pokémon item. Contains the Coins used by the Game Corner, to a maximum of 50,000. A case that holds up to 9,999 COINS. A case for holding COINS obtained at the GAME CORNER. It holds up to 9,999 COINS. A case for holding Coins obtained at the Game Corner. It holds up to 50,000 Coins. A case for holding coins obtained at the Game Corner. It holds up to 50,000 coins. A case for holding coins obtained at the Game Corner. It can hold up to 50,000 coins.
Old Rod is a Pokémon item. Used to find Pokémon on the Old Rod list for an area, which are generally Magikarp or similar. Use by any body of water to fish for wild POKéMON. An old and beat-up fishing rod. Use it by any body of water to fish for wild POKéMON. An old and beat-up fishing rod. Use it by any body of water to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon. An old and beat-up fishing rod. Use it at any body of water to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon.
Good Rod is a Pokémon item. Used to find Pokémon on the Good Rod list for an area, which are generally mediocre. A decent fishing rod for catching wild POKéMON. A new, good-quality fishing rod. Use it by any body of water to fish for wild POKéMON. A new, good-quality fishing rod. Use it by any body of water to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon. A new, good-quality fishing rod. Use it at any body of water to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon.
Super Rod is a Pokémon item. Used to find Pokémon on the Super Rod list for an area, which are generally the best available there. The best fishing rod for catching wild POKéMON. An awesome, high-tech fishing rod. Use it by any body of water to fish for wild POKéMON. An awesome, high-tech fishing rod. Use it by any body of water to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon. An awesome, high-tech fishing rod. Use it at any body of water to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon.
Sprayduck is a Pokémon item. Waters Berry plants. A watering can shaped like a PSYDUCK. It helps promote healthy growth of Berries planted in soft soil. A watering can shaped like a Psyduck. It helps promote healthy growth of Berries planted in soft soil. A watering can shaped like a Psyduck. It helps promote the healthy growth of any Berries planted in good, soft soil.
Poffin Case is a Pokémon item. Contains up to 100 Poffins. A case for storing Poffin cooked from Berries. A case for storing Poffins cooked from Berries.
Bicycle is a Pokémon item. Increases movement speed outside or in caves. In high gear, allows the trainer to hop over some rocks and ascend muddy slopes. A folding bicycle that is faster than the RUNNING SHOES. A folding bicycle that allows faster movement than the RUNNING SHOES. A folding Bicycle that enables much faster movement than the Running Shoes. A folding Bicycle that enables a rider to get around much faster than a pair of Running Shoes will allow.
Suite Key is a Pokémon item. Opens the locked building in the lakeside resort. A key to one of the suites at the luxury hotel by a lake. For some odd reason, it often disappears. A key to one of the suites at a certain luxury hotel by a lake. For some odd reason, it often disappears.
Oaks Letter is a Pokémon item. Grants access to Flower Paradise and Shaymin. A letter from Prof. Oak. Written in it is a request for you to go to Rt. 224. A letter from Professor Oak. Written in it is a request for you to go to Route 224.
Lunar Wing is a Pokémon item. Cures the sailor’s son of his nightmares; no reward, only a side effect of seeing Cresselia. A feather that glows like the moon. It is said to possess the power to dispel nightmares. A feather that glows like the moon. It’s said to possess the power to dispel nightmares.
Member Card is a Pokémon item. Provides access to Newmoon Island and Darkrai. A card needed for entering the inn in Canalave City. Oddly, the last date marked on it was 50 years ago.
Azure Flute is a Pokémon item. A flute that puts out echoing sounds that do not seem to be of this world. It is unknown who made it. A flute that puts out echoing sounds that do not seem to be of this world. No one knows who made it.
Ss Ticket is a Pokémon item. Allows passage on a ferry. The same item is used for different ferries between different games. The ticket required for sailing on a ferry. The ticket required for sailing on the ferry S.S. ANNE. It has a drawing of a ship on it. The ticket required for sailing on the ferry S.S. Anne. It has a drawing of a ship on it. The ticket required for sailing on the ferry S.S. Aqua. It has a drawing of a ship on it. A ticket required for sailing on the ferry S.S. Aqua. It has a drawing of a ship on its front.
Contest Pass is a Pokémon item. Allows the trainer to enter Contests. The pass required for entering POKéMON CONTESTS. The pass required for entering POKéMON CONTESTS. It has a drawing of an award ribbon on it. The pass required for entering Pokémon Contests. It has a drawing of an award ribbon on it. A pass required for entering Pokémon Contests. It has a drawing of an award ribbon on its front.
Magma Stone is a Pokémon item. Causes Heatran to appear at Reversal Mountain. Unused prior to Black and White 2. A stone formed when boulders melted in intensely hot magma, then hardened. Magma remains sealed inside. A stone formed by boulders melting in intensely hot magma, then hardening. Magma remains sealed inside it.
Parcel is a Pokémon item. Given to the trainer’s rival in Jubilife City. Contains two Town Maps, one of which is given to the trainer upon delivery. A parcel entrusted into your care. You’re supposed to deliver it to your childhood friend who left Twinleaf Town. A parcel entrusted in your care. You are supposed to deliver it to your childhood friend who left Twinleaf Town. A parcel entrusted into your care. You are supposed to deliver it to your childhood friend who left Twinleaf Town.
Coupon 1 is a Pokémon item. One of three coupons needed to receive a Pokétch. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch (Pokétch for short). Three coupons are needed. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch--Pokétch for short. Three coupons are needed. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch— Pokétch for short. Three coupons are needed.
Coupon 2 is a Pokémon item. One of three coupons needed to receive a Pokétch. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch (Pokétch for short). Three coupons are needed. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch--Pokétch for short. Three coupons are needed. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch— Pokétch for short. Three coupons are needed.
Coupon 3 is a Pokémon item. One of three coupons needed to receive a Pokétch. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch (Pokétch for short). Three coupons are needed. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch--Pokétch for short. Three coupons are needed. A coupon to be exchanged for a Pokémon Watch— Pokétch for short. Three coupons are needed.
Storage Key is a Pokémon item. Grants access to the Team Galactic warehouse in Veilstone City. The key to the storage inside the ABANDONED SHIP. A key that opens the storage hold inside the ABANDONED SHIP. It is old and looks easily broken. The key to Team Galactic’s sinister warehouse located at the edge of Veilstone City.
Secret Potion is a Pokémon item. Required to cure the Psyducks blocking Route 210 of their chronic headaches. A fantastic medicine dispensed by the pharmacy in Cianwood City. It fully heals a Pokémon of any ailment.
Griseous Orb is a Pokémon item. Held by giratina : Holder’s dragon and ghost moves have 1.2× their base power. Holder is in Origin Forme. This item cannot be held by any Pokémon but Giratina. When you enter the Union Room or connect to Wi-Fi, this item returns to your bag. A glowing orb to be held by GIRATINA. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Ghost-type moves. A glowing orb to be held by Giratina. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Ghost-type moves. A glowing orb to be held by Giratina. It boosts the power of Dragon- and Ghost-type moves when it is held.
Vs Recorder is a Pokémon item. Optionally records wireless, Wi-Fi, and Battle Frontier battles. Tracks Battle Points earned in the Battle Frontier, and stores commemorative prints. An amazing device that can record a battle either between friends or at a special battle facility. An amazing device that can record a battle between friends or the battles at certain special battle facilities.
Gracidea is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer on a shaymin : Changes the target Shaymin from Land Forme to Sky Forme. This item cannot be used on a frozen Shaymin or at night. Sky Forme Shaymin will revert to Land Forme overnight, when frozen, and upon entering a link battle. This item must be used again to change it back. A flower sometimes bundled in bouquets to convey gratitude on special occasions like birthdays. A flower sometimes bundled in bouquets to convey gratitude on special occasions, such as birthdays.
Secret Key is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer in the Galactic Eterna Building, on the ground floor, to the left of the TV : Unlocks the secret rotom room, in which there are five appliances which can change Rotom’s form. The key to the CINNABAR ISLAND GYM’s entrance. The key to CINNABAR ISLAND GYM’s front door. It is colored red and decorated. A high-tech key that has to be used at a specific location. It emits a special electric signal to open a door. A high-tech key that has to be used at a specific location. It emits a special electronic signal to open a door.
Apricorn Box is a Pokémon item. Stores Apricorns. A handy box where you can store up to 99 Apricorns of each kind. A handy box where you can store up to 99 of each kind of Apricorn.
Berry Pots is a Pokémon item. Contains four portable pots of soil suitable for growing berries. Handy containers for cultivating Berries wherever you go.
Squirt Bottle is a Pokémon item. Required to water berries within the berry pots. Required to battle the sudowoodo on johto route 36. This item cannot be directly used from the bag. A bottle used for watering plants in the Berry Pots.
Lure Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. If the wild Pokémon was encountered by fishing, the wild Pokémon’s catch rate is 3× normal. A Poké Ball for catching Pokémon hooked by a Rod when fishing. A Poké Ball that is good for catching Pokémon that you reel in with a Rod while out fishing. A Poké Ball that is good for catching Pokémon that you reel in with a rod while out fishing.
Level Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. If the trainer’s Pokémon’s level is higher than: * four times the wild Pokémon’s, the wild Pokémon’s catch rate is 8× normal. * than twice the wild Pokémon’s, the wild Pokémon’s catch rate is 4× normal. * the wild Pokémon’s, the wild Pokémon’s catch rate is 2× normal. A Poké Ball for catching Pokémon that are a lower level than your own. A Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch Pokémon that are at a lower level than your own Pokémon.
Moon Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. If the wild Pokémon is a clefairy, nidoran m, nidoran f, jigglypuff, skitty, or any evolution thereof, the wild Pokémon has 4× its catch rate. A Poké Ball for catching Pokémon that evolve using the Moon Stone. A Poké Ball that will make it easier to catch Pokémon that can evolve using a Moon Stone.
Heavy Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by a trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. If the wild Pokémon weighs: * 409.6 kg (903.0 lb) or more, its catch rate is 40 more than normal. * 307.2 kg (677.3 lb) or more, its catch rate is 30 more than normal. * 204.8 kg (451.5 lb) or more, its catch rate is 20 more than normal. * less than 204.8 kg (451.5 lb), its catch rate is 20 less than normal. A Poké Ball for catching very heavy Pokémon. A Poké Ball that is better than usual at catching very heavy Pokémon.
Fast Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by a trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. : If the wild Pokémon’s base speed is 100 or more, its catch rate is 4× normal. A Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch fast Pokémon. A Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch Pokémon which are quick to run away. A Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch Pokémon that are usually very quick to run away.
Friend Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by a trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. If caught, the wild Pokémon’s happiness starts at 200. A Poké Ball that makes caught Pokémon more friendly. A strange Poké Ball that will make the wild Pokémon caught with it more friendly toward you immediately.
Love Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by a trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. If the trainer’s Pokémon and wild Pokémon are of the same species but opposite genders, the wild Pokémon’s catch rate is 8× normal. Poké Ball for catching Pokémon that are the opposite gender of your Pokémon. A Poké Ball that works best when catching a Pokémon that is of the opposite gender of your Pokémon.
Park Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by a trainer in battle : Catches a wild Pokémon. This item can only be used in pal park. A special Poké Ball for the Pal Park.
Sport Ball is a Pokémon item. Used by a trainer in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. The wild Pokémon’s catch rate is 1.5× normal. A special Poké Ball for the Bug-Catching Contest. A special Poké Ball that is used during the Bug-Catching Contest. A special Poké Ball that was used during the Bug-Catching Contest in the Johto region.
Red Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a level ball. A red Apricorn. It assails your nostrils.
Blue Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a lure ball. A blue Apricorn. It smells a bit like grass.
Yellow Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a moon ball. A yellow Apricorn. It has an invigorating scent.
Green Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a friend ball. A green Apricorn. It has a mysterious, aromatic scent.
Pink Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a love ball. A pink Apricorn. It has a nice, sweet scent.
White Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a fast ball. A white Apricorn. It doesn’t smell like anything.
Black Apricorn is a Pokémon item. May be given to Kurt in azalea town to produce a heavy ball. A black Apricorn It has an indescribable scent. A black Apricorn. It has a scent beyond one’s experience.
Dowsing Machine is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer outside of battle : Searches for hidden items. A device that signals an invisible item by sound. A device used for finding items. If there is a hidden item nearby when it is used, it emits a signal. It checks for unseen items in the area and makes noise and lights when it finds something. It searches for hidden items in the area and emits different lights and sounds when it detects something. This high-tech machine shows the location of invisible items. It’s attached to the head when in use. A high-tech machine that shows the location of invisible items. It’s attached to the head when in use.
Rage Candy Bar is a Pokémon item. May be traded for a tm64 in the vertical Underground Path. A famous candy in Mahogany Town. Many tourists like to buy them to take home. A famous Mahogany Town candy tourists like to buy and take home. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by 20 points. Mahogany Town’s famous candy. When consumed, it restores 20 HP to an injured Pokémon. Mahogany Town’s famous candy. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Red Orb is a Pokémon item. Causes groudon to appear in the embedded tower. A red, glowing orb said to contain an ancient power. An orb that glows red. It is said to contain an incredible power from ancient times. A shiny red orb that is said to have a legend and has a deep connection with the Hoenn region. A shiny red orb that is said to have a legend tied to it. It’s known to have a deep connection with the Hoenn region.
Blue Orb is a Pokémon item. Causes kyogre to appear in the embedded tower. A blue, glowing orb said to contain an ancient power. An orb that glows blue. It is said to contain an incredible power from ancient times. A shiny blue orb that is said to have a legend and has a deep connection with the Hoenn region. A shiny blue orb that is said to have a legend tied to it. It’s known to have a deep connection with the Hoenn region.
Jade Orb is a Pokémon item. Causes rayquaza to appear in the embedded tower. A shiny green orb that is said to have a legend and has a deep connection with the Hoenn region. A shiny green orb that is said to have a legend tied to it. It’s known to have a deep connection with the Hoenn region.
Enigma Stone is a Pokémon item. When taken to the pewter city museum, causes latias or latios to attack the trainer. The Pokémon to appear will be whicher can’t be encountered roaming in the wild. A crystal ball that was excavated from the ground. A very beautiful stone that is covered with bits of rock and earth. A crystal ball that was excavated from the ground. It’s a very beautiful stone that is covered with bits of rock and earth.
Unown Report is a Pokémon item. Lists which unown forms the trainer has caught. A report of all the discovered kinds of UNOWN. A report of all the discovered kinds of Unown.
Blue Card is a Pokémon item. Allows the trainer to answer the daily question on Buena’s radio show. Records the points earned for correct answers. A card to save points for the Buena’s Password show.
Slowpoke Tail is a Pokémon item. Does nothing. A very tasty tail of something. It sells for a high price. A very tasty tail of something. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Clear Bell is a Pokémon item. May be given to the Kimono Girls to summon ho oh to the top of the bell tower. A very old-fashioned bell that makes a gentle ringing. A very old-fashioned bell that makes a gentle ringing sound.
Card Key is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer outside of battle : Opens doors in the goldenrod city Radio Tower. A card-type door key used in SILPH CO’s office. A card-type key that unlocks doors in SILPH CO.’s HEAD OFFICE in SAFFRON CITY. A card key that opens a shutter in the Radio Tower.
Basement Key is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer outside of battle : Opens the door to the basement tunnel under goldenrod city. The key for NEW MAUVILLE beneath MAUVILLE CITY. The key to NEW MAUVILLE, which was constructed beneath MAUVILLE CITY. A key that opens a door in the Goldenrod Tunnel.
Red Scale is a Pokémon item. May be traded to Mr. Pokémon for an exp share. A scale from the red GYARADOS. It glows red like a flame. A scale from the red Gyarados. It glows red like a flame. A scale from a red Gyarados. It glows red like a flame.
Lost Item is a Pokémon item. May be traded to the Copycat for a pass. The Mime Jr. doll that was lost by the Copycat. The Poké Doll lost by the Copycat.
Pass is a Pokémon item. Allows the trainer to ride the Magnet Train between goldenrod city and saffron city. A ticket required for riding the Magnet Train. It allows you to ride whenever and however much you’d like. A pass required for riding the Magnet Train. It allows you to ride whenever and however much you’d like.
Machine Part is a Pokémon item. Must be replaced in the power plant to power the Magnet Train. An important machine part for the Power Plant that was stolen. An important part of a machine that was stolen from the Power Plant.
Silver Wing is a Pokémon item. Causes lugia to appear in the whirl islands. A strange, silvery feather that sparkles.
Rainbow Wing is a Pokémon item. Causes ho oh to appear at the top of bell tower. A mystical, rainbow feather that sparkles. A mystical rainbow feather that sparkles.
Mystery Egg is a Pokémon item. Must be obtained to trigger the break-in at Professor Elm’s lab, the first rival battle, and access to johto route 31. A mysterious Egg obtained from Mr. Pokémon. What’s in the Egg is unknown. A mysterious Egg obtained from Mr. Pokémon. What is in the Egg is unknown.
Gb Sounds is a Pokémon item. Used by trainer outside of battle : Changes the background music to the equivalent 8-bit music. A music player that allows you to listen to nostalgic songs. It’s operated with a single switch. A music player that allows you to listen to nostalgic songs. It’s operated with the flip of a single switch.
Tidal Bell is a Pokémon item. May be given to the Kimono Girls to summon lugia to the top of the bell tower. An old-fashioned bell with a gentle, soothing sound. A very old-fashioned bell that makes a gentle ringing. A very old-fashioned bell that makes a gentle ringing sound.
Data Card 01 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first place overall in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many victories you’ve had. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many victories you have had in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 02 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in last place overall in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many losses you’ve had. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many losses you have had in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 03 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon have dashed in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon have dashed. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon dashed in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 04 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon have jumped in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon have jumped. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon jumped in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 05 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Hurdle Dash. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won the Hurdle Dash. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Hurdle Dash.
Data Card 06 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Relay Run. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won the Relay Run. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Relay Run.
Data Card 07 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Pennant Capture. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Pennant Capture. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Pennant Capture.
Data Card 08 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Block Smash. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Block Smash. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Block Smash.
Data Card 09 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Disc Catch. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Disc Catch. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Disc Catch.
Data Card 10 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Snow Throw. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Snow Throw. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Snow Throw.
Data Card 11 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of points the trainer has earned in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many points your Pokémon scored. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many points your Pokémon scored in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 12 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon have messed up in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon have failed. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon failed in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 13 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon have defeated themselves in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon impeded themselves. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon impeded themselves.
Data Card 14 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon have tackled in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon have tackled. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon tackled in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 15 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon have fallen in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon have fallen down. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon fell down in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 16 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Ring Drop. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Ring Drop. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Ring Drop.
Data Card 17 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Lamp Jump. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Lamp Jump. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Lamp Jump.
Data Card 18 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Circle Push. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Circle Push. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Circle Push.
Data Card 19 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first place overall in the Pokéathlon over wirelss. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many Link Pokéathlon wins you’ve had. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many Link Pokéathlon wins you have had.
Data Card 20 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in last place overall in the Pokéathlon over wireless. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many Link Pokéathlon losses you’ve had. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many Link Pokéathlon losses you have had.
Data Card 21 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first across all Pokéathlon events. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won an event. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you have won a Pokéathlon event.
Data Card 22 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in last across all Pokéathlon events. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve lost an event. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you have lost a Pokéathlon event.
Data Card 23 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has switched Pokémon in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve switched Pokémon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you switched Pokémon in the Pokéathlon.
Data Card 24 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has come in first in the Pokéathlon Goal Roll. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve won Goal Roll. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you won the Pokéathlon’s Goal Roll.
Data Card 25 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer’s Pokémon received prizes in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times your Pokémon won individual prizes. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times your Pokémon won individual prizes.
Data Card 26 is a Pokémon item. Records the number of times the trainer has instructed Pokémon in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how many times you’ve instructed your Pokémon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how many times you instructed your Pokémon.
Data Card 27 is a Pokémon item. Records the total time spent in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It’s a card that shows how much time you’ve spent in the Pokéathlon. It holds Pokéathlon records. It is a card that shows how much time you spent participating in the Pokéathlon.
Lock Capsule is a Pokémon item. Does nothing. A sturdy Capsule that can only be opened with a special key.
Photo Album is a Pokémon item. Does nothing. A nice photo album for storing all the photos taken along your adventure.
Orange Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A ZIGZAGOON-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute ZIGZAGOON print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Harbor Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A WINGULL-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute WINGULL print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Glitter Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A PIKACHU-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute PIKACHU print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Mech Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A MAGNEMITE-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute MAGNEMITE print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Wood Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A SLAKOTH-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute SLAKOTH print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Wave Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A WAILMER-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute WAILMER print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Bead Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. MAIL featuring a sketch of the holding POKéMON. A piece of MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. It will bear the print of the POKéMON holding it.
Shadow Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A DUSKULL-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute DUSKULL print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Tropic Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A BELLOSSOM-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a cute BELLOSSOM print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Dream Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. MAIL featuring a sketch of the holding POKéMON. A piece of MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. It will bear the print of the POKéMON holding it.
Fab Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. A gorgeous-print MAIL to be held by a POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a gorgeous, extravagant print. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Retro Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. MAIL featuring the drawings of three POKéMON. A piece of MAIL featuring a print of three cute POKéMON. It is to be held by a POKéMON.
Mach Bike is a Pokémon item. Increases movement speed outside or in caves. Faster than the acro bike. Allows the trainer to ascend muddy slopes. A folding bicycle that more than doubles foot speed. A folding bicycle that doubles your speed or better. A folding bicycle that is at least twice as fast as walking. This folding Bike more than doubles your movement speed. This folding bike more than doubles your movement speed.
Acro Bike is a Pokémon item. Increases movement speed outside or in caves. Slower than the mach bike. Can perform various tricks, allowing the trainer to reach certain special areas. A folding bicycle capable of jumps and wheelies. A folding bicycle that is capable of stunts like jumps and wheelies. This folding Bike allows you to perform actions such as wheelies and bunny hops. This folding bike allows you to perform actions such as wheelies and bunny hops.
Wailmer Pail is a Pokémon item. Waters Berry plants. A tool used for watering BERRIES and plants. A nifty watering pail. Use it to promote strong growth in BERRIES planted in soft soil. This is a tool for watering Berries you planted to make them grow more quickly.
Devon Goods is a Pokémon item. Contains a machine part to be delivered to Captain Stern. A package that contains DEVON’s machine parts. A package that contains mechanical parts of some sort made by the DEVON CORPORATION.
Soot Sack is a Pokémon item. Collects soot when walking through tall grass on hoenn route 113. A sack used to gather and hold volcanic ash. A sack used to collect volcanic ash automatically during walks over deep ash.
Pokeblock Case is a Pokémon item. Stores Pokéblocks. A case for holding POKéBLOCKS made with a BERRY BLENDER. A case for holding POKéBLOCKS made with a BERRY BLENDER. It releases one POKéBLOCK when shaken.
Letter is a Pokémon item. Contains a letter to be delivered to Steven. A letter to STEVEN from the PRESIDENT of the DEVON CORP. An extremely important letter to STEVEN from the PRESIDENT of the DEVON CORPORATION. An extremely important letter to Steven from the President of Devon Corporation. An extremely important letter to Steven from the president of Devon Corporation.
Eon Ticket is a Pokémon item. Provides access to southern island and either latias or latios, whichever is not available roaming around Hoenn. The ticket for a ferry to a distant southern island. The ticket required for sailing on a ferry to a distant southern island. It features a drawing of an island. The ticket required for sailing on a ferry to the Southern Island. Does Norman, the Petalburg Gym Leader, know a secret?!
Scanner is a Pokémon item. May be traded to Captain Stern for a deep sea tooth or a deep sea scale. A device found inside the ABANDONED SHIP. A device used to search for life-forms in water. It looks too difficult to use. A device found inside Sea Mauville.
Go Goggles is a Pokémon item. Allows the trainer to enter the desert on hoenn route 111. Nifty goggles that protect eyes from desert sandstorms. A pair of protective goggles. They enable a TRAINER to travel through even desert sandstorms. Nifty goggles to protect eyes from desert sandstorms.
Meteorite is a Pokémon item. RSE: May be traded to Professor Cozmo for tm27. FRLG: A meteorite to be delivered to Lostelle’s father. A meteorite found at METEOR FALLS. A meteorite that fell from space onto MT. MOON long ago. It is very lumpy and hard. A Meteorite originally found at Meteor Falls. You got it at Mt. Chimney.
Rm 1 Key is a Pokémon item. Unlocks room 1 on the abandoned ship. A key that opens a door inside the ABANDONED SHIP. A key that opens the door to Room 1 inside the ABANDONED SHIP. It is old and looks easily broken.
Rm 2 Key is a Pokémon item. Unlocks room 2 on the abandoned ship. A key that opens a door inside the ABANDONED SHIP. A key that opens the door to Room 2 inside the ABANDONED SHIP. It is old and looks easily broken.
Rm 4 Key is a Pokémon item. Unlocks room 4 on the abandoned ship. A key that opens a door inside the ABANDONED SHIP. A key that opens the door to Room 4 inside the ABANDONED SHIP. It is old and looks easily broken.
Rm 6 Key is a Pokémon item. Unlocks room 6 on the abandoned ship. A key that opens a door inside the ABANDONED SHIP. A key that opens the door to Room 6 inside the ABANDONED SHIP. It is old and looks easily broken.
Devon Scope is a Pokémon item. Reveals invisble kecleon on the overworld. A device by DEVON that signals any unseeable POKéMON. A scope that signals the presence of any unseeable POKéMON. It is made by the DEVON CORP. A special device made by Devon Corporation that signals the presence of any unseen Pokémon.
Oaks Parcel is a Pokémon item. A parcel to be delivered to Professor Oak for a Pokédex. A parcel for PROF. OAK from a POKéMON MART’s clerk. A parcel to be delivered to PROF. OAK from VIRIDIAN CITY’s POKéMON MART.
Poke Flute is a Pokémon item. Wakes up sleeping Pokémon. Required to wake up sleeping snorlax on the overworld. A sweet-sounding flute that awakens POKéMON. A flute that is said to instantly awaken any POKéMON. It has a lovely tone. A flute which can play with such a beautiful tone that even sleeping Pokémon find themselves roused. A flute that can play with such a beautiful tone that even sleeping Pokémon find themselves roused. A flute that can play with such a beautiful tone that even sleeping Pokémon find themselves woken up.
Bike Voucher is a Pokémon item. May be traded for a bicycle. A voucher for obtaining a bicycle from the BIKE SHOP. Take this voucher to the BIKE SHOP in CERULEAN CITY and exchange it for a bicycle.
Gold Teeth is a Pokémon item. The Safari Zone warden’s teeth, to be returned to him for hm04. Gold dentures lost by the SAFARI ZONE’s WARDEN. A set of false teeth lost by the SAFARI ZONE’S WARDEN. It makes his smile sparkle. A set of golden false teeth lost by the Safari Zone’s warden. They make his smile sparkle.
Lift Key is a Pokémon item. Operates the elevator in the Celadon Rocket Hideout. An elevator key used in TEAM ROCKET’s HIDEOUT. A key that operates the elevator in TEAM ROCKET’s HIDEOUT. It bears the TEAM ROCKET logo. A key that operates the elevator in the Team Rocket Hideout. It bears the Team Rocket logo.
Silph Scope is a Pokémon item. Identifies ghosts in pokemon tower. SILPH CO’s scope makes unseeable POKéMON visible. A scope that makes unseeable POKéMON visible. It is made by SILPH CO. A scope that lets you see what cannot usually be seen. It is made by Silph Co.
Fame Checker is a Pokémon item. Records information on various famous people. Stores information on famous people for instant recall. A device that enables you to recall what you’ve heard and seen about famous people.
Tm Case is a Pokémon item. Stores TMs and HMs. A convenient case that holds TMs and HMs. A case that holds TMs and HMs. It is attached to the BAG’s compartment for important items. - - -
Berry Pouch is a Pokémon item. Stores Berries. A convenient container that holds BERRIES. A pouch for carrying BERRIES. It is attached to the BAG’s compartment for important items.
Teachy Tv is a Pokémon item. Teaches beginning trainers basic information. A TV set tuned to an advice program for TRAINERS. A television set that is tuned to a program with useful tips for novice TRAINERS.
Tri Pass is a Pokémon item. Provides access to the first three Sevii Islands. A pass for ferries between ONE, TWO, and THREE ISLAND. A pass for ferries between ONE, TWO, and THREE ISLAND. It has a drawing of three islands.
Rainbow Pass is a Pokémon item. Provides access to the Sevii Islands. For ferries serving VERMILION and the SEVII ISLANDS. A pass for ferries between VERMILION and the SEVII ISLANDS. It features a drawing of a rainbow.
Tea is a Pokémon item. Used to bribe the saffron city guards for entry to the city. A thirst-quenching tea prepared by an old lady. An aromatic tea prepared by an old lady. It will slake even the worst thirst. Aromatic tea that has a slightly bitter taste. It soothes a dry throat.
Mysticticket is a Pokémon item. Provides access to Navel Rock, ho oh, and lugia. A ticket required to board the ship to NAVEL ROCK. A ticket required to board the ship to NAVEL ROCK. It glows with a mystic light.
Auroraticket is a Pokémon item. Provides access to Birth Island and deoxys. A ticket required to board the ship to BIRTH ISLAND. A ticket required to board the ship to BIRTH ISLAND. It glows beautifully.
Powder Jar is a Pokémon item. Holds Berry Powder from Berry Crushing. Stores BERRY POWDER made using a BERRY CRUSHER. A jar for storing BERRY POWDER made using a BERRY CRUSHER.
Ruby is a Pokémon item. Deliver to Celio for use in the Network Machine. An exquisite, red- glowing gem that symbolizes passion. An exquisitely beautiful gem that has a red glow. It symbolizes passion.
Sapphire is a Pokémon item. Deliver to Celio for use in the Network Machine. A brilliant blue gem that symbolizes honesty. An exquisitely beautiful gem that has a blue glow. It symbolizes honesty.
Magma Emblem is a Pokémon item. Provides access to the magma hideout in the jagged pass. A medal-like item in the same shape as TEAM MAGMA’s mark.
Old Sea Map is a Pokémon item. Provides access to Faraway Island and mew. A faded sea chart that shows the way to a certain island.
Douse Drive is a Pokémon item. Held by genesect : Holder’s buster is blue, and its techno blast is water-type. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Techno Blast to a Water-type move. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Genesect’s Techno Blast move so it becomes Water type.
Shock Drive is a Pokémon item. Held by genesect : Holder’s buster is yellow, and its techno blast is electric-type. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Techno Blast to an Electric-type move. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Genesect’s Techno Blast move so it becomes Electric type.
Burn Drive is a Pokémon item. Held by genesect : Holder’s buster is red, and its techno blast is fire-type. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Techno Blast to a Fire-type move. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Genesect’s Techno Blast move so it becomes Fire type.
Chill Drive is a Pokémon item. Held by genesect : Holder’s buster is white, and its techno blast becomes ice-type. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Techno Blast to an Ice-type move. A cassette to be held by Genesect. It changes Genesect’s Techno Blast move so it becomes Ice type.
Sweet Heart is a Pokémon item. Used on a friendly Pokémon : Restores 20 HP. Very sweet chocolate. It restores the HP of one Pokémon by only 20 points. A piece of cloyingly sweet chocolate. When consumed, it restores 20 HP to an injured Pokémon. A piece of cloyingly sweet chocolate. It can be used to restore 20 HP to a single Pokémon.
Greet Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for introductory greetings. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to be easy to use when writing someone for the first time. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Favored Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for writing about your favorite things. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to make it easier to write about your favorite things. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Rsvp Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for invitations. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to allow you to extend an invitation to the recipient. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Thanks Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for a thank-you note. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to make it easy for you to express thanks. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Inquiry Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for writing questions. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to make it easier to pose a question about something. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Like Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for writing recommendations. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to allow you to recommend something to the reader. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Reply Mail is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery designed for writing a reply. Let a Pokémon hold it for delivery. Stationery designed to make it easy to respond to a letter you received. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bridge Mail S is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a sky-piercing bridge. Let a Pokémon hold it for use. Stationery featuring an illustration of a bridge that seems to pierce the sky. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bridge Mail D is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a red drawbridge. Let a Pokémon hold it for use. Stationery featuring an illustration of a bright-red drawbridge. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bridge Mail T is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a steel suspension bridge. Let a Pokémon hold it for use. Stationery featuring an illustration of a high-tension steel suspension bridge. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bridge Mail V is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of a brick bridge. Let a Pokémon hold it for use. Stationery featuring an illustration of a vintage-looking brick bridge. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Bridge Mail M is a Pokémon item. Used to send short messages to other players via Pokémon trading. Trainer may compose a message from a finite list of words when giving this item to a Pokémon. Once taken and read, a message may be erased and this item can be reused, or the message may be stored in the trainer’s PC. Held : Holder cannot be placed in the PC. Any move attempting to remove this item from the holder will fail. Stationery featuring a print of an arched bridge. Let a Pokémon hold it for use. Stationery featuring an illustration of a majestically arched bridge. Have a Pokémon hold it for delivery.
Prism Scale is a Pokémon item. Held by feebas : Holder evolves into milotic when traded. A mysterious scale that evolves certain Pokémon. It shines in rainbow colors. A mysterious scale that causes a certain Pokémon to evolve. It shines in rainbow colors.
Eviolite is a Pokémon item. Held by a Pokémon that is not fully evolved : Holder has 1.5× Defense and Special Defense. A mysterious evolutionary lump. When held, it raises the Defense and Sp. Def of a Pokémon that can still evolve. A mysterious Evolutionary lump. When held by a Pokémon that can still evolve, it raises both Defense and Sp. Def. A mysterious evolutionary lump. When held by a Pokémon that can still evolve, it raises both Defense and Sp. Def.
Float Stone is a Pokémon item. Held : Holder has 0.5× weight. A very light stone. It reduces the weight of a Pokémon when held. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This very light stone reduces the weight of a Pokémon when held.
Rocky Helmet is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder is hit by a contact move, the attacking Pokémon takes 1/6 its max HP in damage. If the holder of this item takes damage, the attacker will also be damaged upon contact. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder is hit, the attacker will also be damaged upon contact.
Air Balloon is a Pokémon item. Held : Holder is immune to ground-type moves, spikes, toxic spikes, and arena trap. This effect does not apply during gravity or ingrain. When the holder takes damage from a move, this item is consumed. When held by a Pokémon, the Pokémon will float into the air. When the holder is attacked, this item will burst. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder will float in the air until hit. Once hit, this item will burst. An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder will float in the air until hit. Once the holder is hit, this item will burst.
Red Card is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder takes damage directly from a move and does not faint, it switches out for another random, non-fainted Pokémon in its party. This effect does not activate if another effect prevents the holder from switching out. A card with a mysterious power. When the holder is struck by a foe, the attacker is removed from battle. An item to be held by a Pokémon. When the holder is hit by an attack, the attacker is removed from battle.
Ring Target is a Pokémon item. Held : When one of the user’s types would render it immune to damage, that type is ignored for damage calculation. Moves that would otherwise have no effect will land on the Pokémon that holds it. An item to be held by a Pokémon. Moves that normally have no effect will land on a Pokémon holding it.
Binding Band is a Pokémon item. Held : Moves used by the holder that trap and damage a target for multiple turns (e.g. bind, fire spin) inflict twice their usual per-turn damage. A band that increases the power of binding moves when held. An item to be held by a Pokémon. A band that increases the power of binding moves used by the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a band that increases the power of binding moves used by the holder.
Absorb Bulb is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder takes water-type damage from a move, its Special Attack rises by one stage and this item is consumed. A consumable bulb. If the holder is hit by a Water-type move, its Sp. Atk will rise. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Atk if hit with a Water- type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Atk if hit with a Water-type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Atk if the holder is hit with a Water-type attack. It can only be used once.
Cell Battery is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder takes electric-type damage from a move, its Attack rises by one stage and this item is consumed. A consumable battery. If the holder is hit by an Electric-type move, its Attack will rise. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Attack if hit with an Electric- type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Attack if hit with an Electric-type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Attack if the holder is hit with an Electric-type attack. It can only be used once.
Eject Button is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder takes damage directly from a move and does not faint, it switches out for another non-fainted Pokémon in its party, as chosen by the Trainer. This effect does not activate if another effect prevents the holder from switching out. If the holder is hit by an attack, it will switch with another Pokémon in your party. An item to be held by a Pokémon. If the holder is hit by an attack, it will be switched out of battle.
Fire Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging fire-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of fire. When held, it strengthens the power of a Fire-type move only once. A gem with an essence of fire. When held, it strengthens the power of a Fire-type move one time.
Water Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging water-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of water. When held, it strengthens the power of a Water-type move only once. A gem with an essence of water. When held, it strengthens the power of a Water-type move one time.
Electric Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging electric-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of electricity. When held, it strengthens the power of an Electric-type move only once. A gem with an essence of electricity. When held, it strengthens the power of an Electric-type move one time.
Grass Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging grass-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of nature. When held, it strengthens the power of a Grass-type move only once. A gem with an essence of nature. When held, it strengthens the power of a Grass-type move one time.
Ice Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging ice-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of ice. When held, it strengthens the power of an Ice-type move only once. A gem with an essence of ice. When held, it strengthens the power of an Ice-type move one time.
Fighting Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging fighting-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of combat. When held, it strengthens the power of a Fighting-type move only once. A gem with an essence of combat. When held, it strengthens the power of a Fighting-type move one time.
Poison Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging poison-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of poison. When held, it strengthens the power of a Poison-type move only once. A gem with an essence of poison. When held, it strengthens the power of a Poison-type move one time.
Ground Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging ground-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of land. When held, it strengthens the power of a Ground-type move only once. A gem with an essence of land. When held, it strengthens the power of a Ground-type move one time.
Flying Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging flying-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of air. When held, it strengthens the power of a Flying-type move only once. A gem with an essence of air. When held, it strengthens the power of a Flying-type move one time.
Psychic Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging psychic-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of the mind. When held, it strengthens the power of a Psychic-type move only once. A gem with an essence of the mind. When held, it strengthens the power of a Psychic-type move one time.
Bug Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging bug-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an insect-like essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Bug-type move only once. A gem with an insect-like essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Bug-type move one time.
Rock Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging rock-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of rock. When held, it strengthens the power of a Rock-type move only once. A gem with an essence of rock. When held, it strengthens the power of a Rock-type move one time.
Ghost Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging ghost-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with a spectral essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Ghost-type move only once. A gem with a spectral essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Ghost-type move one time.
Dark Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging dark-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of darkness. When held, it strengthens the power of a Dark-type move only once. A gem with an essence of darkness. When held, it strengthens the power of a Dark-type move one time.
Steel Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging steel-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of steel. When held, it strengthens the power of a Steel-type move only once. A gem with an essence of steel. When held, it strengthens the power of a Steel-type move one time.
Health Wing is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases the target’s HP effort by 1. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the base HP of a single Pokémon. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the HP base points of a single Pokémon.
Muscle Wing is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases the target’s Attack effort by 1. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the base Attack stat of a single Pokémon. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the Attack base points of a single Pokémon.
Resist Wing is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases the target’s Defense effort by 1. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the base Defense stat of a single Pokémon. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the Defense base points of a single Pokémon.
Genius Wing is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases the target’s Special Attack effort by 1. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the base Sp. Atk stat of a single Pokémon. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the Sp. Atk base points of a single Pokémon.
Clever Wing is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases the target’s Special Defense effort by 1. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the base Sp. Def stat of a single Pokémon. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the Sp. Def base points of a single Pokémon.
Swift Wing is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Increases the target’s Speed effort by 1. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the base Speed stat of a single Pokémon. An item for use on a Pokémon. It slightly increases the Speed base points of a single Pokémon.
Pretty Wing is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. Though this feather is beautiful, it’s just a regular feather and has no effect on Pokémon. Though this feather is beautiful, it’s just a regular feather and has no effect.
Cover Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in a museum to receive a tirtouga. A fossil of an ancient Pokémon that lived in the sea in ancient times. It appears to be part of its back. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived in the sea. It appears as though it could be part of its back.
Plume Fossil is a Pokémon item. Give to a scientist in a museum to receive an archen. A fossil of an ancient Pokémon that flew in the sky in ancient times. It appears to be part of its wing. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived in the sky. It looks as if it could come from part of its wing.
Liberty Pass is a Pokémon item. Allows passage on the castelia city ship, which leads to liberty garden and victini. A special pass to go to Liberty Garden. Board the ship in Castelia City.
Pass Orb is a Pokémon item. Acts as currency to activate Pass Powers in the Entralink. A mysterious orb containing the power of the Unova region, to be used when generating Pass Power.
Dream Ball is a Pokémon item. Can only be used in Entree Forest, to catch Pokémon encountered in the Dream World. Used in battle : Catches a wild Pokémon without fail. A special Poké Ball that appears out of nowhere in a bag at the Entree Forest. It can catch any Pokémon. A special Poké Ball that appears in your Bag out of nowhere in the Entree Forest. It can catch any Pokémon. A somewhat different Poké Ball that makes it easier to catch wild Pokémon while they’re asleep.
Poke Toy is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Ends a wild battle. Cannot be used in trainer battles. An item that attracts Pokémon. Use it to flee from any battle with a wild Pokémon. A toy that attracts the attention of a Pokémon. It guarantees escape from any battle with a wild Pokémon. A toy that attracts the attention of a Pokémon. It guarantees escape from any battle with wild Pokémon.
Prop Case is a Pokémon item. Stores props for the Pokémon Musical. A lovely case to store colorful Props for your Pokémon to wear in a musical.
Dragon Skull is a Pokémon item. Only used as a plot point; this item is given to the player and taken away in the same cutscene. A skull of a Pokémon which was said to have braved the angry waters to fly around the world. A skull of a Pokémon that was said to have braved the angry waters to fly around the world.
Balm Mushroom is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A rare mushroom which gives off a nice fragrance. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A rare mushroom that gives off a nice fragrance. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Big Nugget is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A big nugget of pure gold that gives off a lustrous gleam. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A big nugget of pure gold that gives off a lustrous gleam. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Pearl String is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. Very large pearls that sparkle in a pretty silver color. A maniac will buy them for a high price. Very large pearls that sparkle in a pretty silver color. They can be sold at a high price to shops.
Comet Shard is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A shard which fell to the ground when a comet approached. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A shard that fell to the ground when a comet approached. It can be sold at a high price to shops.
Relic Copper is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A copper coin used in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A copper coin used by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A copper coin used by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Relic Silver is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A silver coin used in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A silver coin used by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A silver coin used by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Relic Gold is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A gold coin used in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A gold coin used by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A gold coin used by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Relic Vase is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A vase made in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A fragile vase made by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A fragile vase made by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Relic Band is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A bracelet made in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A heavy bracelet made by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A heavy bracelet made by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Relic Statue is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A stone figure made in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A stone figurine made by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A stone figurine made by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Relic Crown is a Pokémon item. Cult vendor trash. A crown made in a civilization about 3,000 years ago. A maniac will buy it for a high price. A heavy crown made by an ancient civilization about 3,000 years ago. A heavy crown made by an ancient civilization about three thousand years ago.
Casteliacone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Cures any status ailment and confusion. Castelia City’s specialty, soft-serve ice cream. It heals all the status problems of a single Pokémon. Castelia City’s specialty, soft-serve ice cream. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Dire Hit 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s critical hit rate by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It can be used many times to raise the critical-hit ratio of one Pokémon. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Speed 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Speed by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It sharply raises the Speed stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Atk 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Attack by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It sharply raises the Sp. Atk stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Def 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Defense by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It sharply raises the Sp. Def stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Defense 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Defense by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It sharply raises the Defense stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Attack 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Attack by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It sharply raises the Attack stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Accuracy 2 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s accuracy by two stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It sharply raises the accuracy of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Speed 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Speed by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It drastically raises the Speed stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Atk 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Attack by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It drastically raises the Sp. Atk stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Def 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Defense by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It drastically raises the Sp. Def stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Defense 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Defense by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It drastically raises the Defense stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Attack 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Attack by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It drastically raises the Attack stat of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Accuracy 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s accuracy by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It drastically raises the accuracy of a Pokémon in battle. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Speed 6 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Speed by six stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It raises the Speed stat of a Pokémon in battle immensely. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Atk 6 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Attack by six stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It raises the Sp. Atk stat of a Pokémon in battle immensely. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Sp Def 6 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Special Defense by six stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It raises the Sp. Def stat of a Pokémon in battle immensely. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Defense 6 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Defense by six stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It raises the Defense stat of a Pokémon in battle immensely. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Attack 6 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s Attack by six stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It raises the Attack stat of a Pokémon in battle immensely. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
X Accuracy 6 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s accuracy by six stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It raises the accuracy of a Pokémon in battle immensely. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
Ability Urge is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Selects another friendly Pokémon at random. If that Pokémon’s ability is normally activated by some condition—i.e., is not continuous and passive—its effect is forcibly activated. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. When used, it activates the Ability of an ally Pokémon.
Item Drop is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Selects another friendly Pokémon at random. If that Pokémon is holding an item, that item is removed for the duration of the battle. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. When used, it causes an ally Pokémon to drop a held item.
Item Urge is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Selects another friendly Pokémon at random. If that Pokémon is holding an item normally activated by some condition—i.e., not continuous and passive—its effect is forcibly activated. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. When used, it causes an ally Pokémon to use its held item.
Reset Urge is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Selects another friendly Pokémon at random. Removes all of that Pokémon’s stat changes. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. When used, it restores any stat changes of an ally Pokémon.
Dire Hit 3 is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon in battle : Raises the target’s critical hit rate by three stages. This item can only be obtained or used via the Wonder Launcher. It can be used many times to greatly raise a Pokémon’s critical-hit ratio. It wears off if the Pokémon is withdrawn.
Light Stone is a Pokémon item. Summons reshiram for the final battle against N. Reshiram’s body was destroyed and changed into this stone. It is said to be waiting for the emergence of a hero.
Dark Stone is a Pokémon item. Summons zekrom for the final battle against N. Zekrom’s body was destroyed and changed into this stone. It is said to be waiting for the emergence of a hero.
Tm93 is a Pokémon item. Teaches wild charge to a compatible Pokémon. The user shrouds itself in electricity and smashes into its target. It also damages the user a little. The user shrouds itself in electricity and smashes into its target. This also damages the user a little. The user’s body generates an eerie impulse. Exposing the target to it harshly lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat.
Tm94 is a Pokémon item. Teaches rock smash to a compatible Pokémon. The user attacks with a punch that can shatter a rock. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user attacks with a punch. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. This move can also shatter rocks in the field. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave. A restrained attack that prevents the target from fainting. The target is left with at least 1 HP.
Tm95 is a Pokémon item. Teaches snarl to a compatible Pokémon. The user yells as if it is ranting about something, making the target’s Sp. Atk stat decrease. The user yells as if it’s ranting about something, which lowers the Sp. Atk stat of opposing Pokémon. The user attacks with a blade of air that slices even the sky. This may also make the target flinch.
Xtransceiver is a Pokémon item. Makes four-way video calls. Used for plot advancement in-game, but also works with other players via the C-Gear. A high-tech transceiver with a camera function. It allows up to four-way calls.
God Stone is a Pokémon item. Unknown. Currently unused. A rare stone.
Gram 1 is a Pokémon item. Give to the wingull on unova route 13, along with gram 2 and gram 3, to receive tm89. An important letter which Wingull delivers. An important letter that Wingull delivers.
Gram 2 is a Pokémon item. Give to the wingull on unova route 13, along with gram 1 and gram 3, to receive tm89. An important letter that Wingull delivers. An important letter which Wingull delivers.
Gram 3 is a Pokémon item. Give to the wingull on unova route 13, along with gram 1 and gram 2, to receive tm89. An important letter which Wingull delivers. An important letter that Wingull delivers.
Dragon Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging dragon-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with a draconic essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Dragon-type move only once. A gem with a draconic essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Dragon-type move one time.
Normal Gem is a Pokémon item. Held : When the holder uses a damaging normal-type move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an ordinary essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Normal-type move only once. A gem with an ordinary essence. When held, it strengthens the power of a Normal-type move one time.
Medal Box is a Pokémon item. A box-shaped machine that stores Medals and Medal information.
Dna Splicers is a Pokémon item. A splicer that fuses Kyurem and a certain Pokémon. They are said to have been one in the beginning.
Permit is a Pokémon item. A permit needed to enter the Nature Preserve. Only a few know about this place. A permit that is needed to enter the Nature Preserve. Not many know about it.
Oval Charm is a Pokémon item. An oval charm said to increase the chance of Eggs being found at the Day Care. An oval charm said to increase the chance of Pokémon Eggs being found at the Day Care. An oval charm said to increase the chance of Pokémon Eggs being found at the Nursery.
Shiny Charm is a Pokémon item. A shiny charm said to increase the chance of finding a Shiny Pokémon. A shiny charm said to increase the chance of finding a Shiny Pokémon in the wild.
Plasma Card is a Pokémon item. A card key needed to enter the password inside the Plasma Frigate.
Grubby Hanky is a Pokémon item. A handkerchief dropped by a regular at Café Warehouse. It smells faintly like a Pokémon.
Colress Machine is a Pokémon item. A special device that wrings out the potential of Pokémon. It is an imperfect prototype. A special device that wrings out the potential of Pokémon. It’s an imperfect prototype.
Dropped Item is a Pokémon item. The Xtransceiver found at the Nimbasa City amusement park. It seems it belongs to a boy.
Reveal Glass is a Pokémon item. A glass that reveals the truth. It is a mysterious glass that returns a Pokémon back to its original shape. A looking glass that reveals the truth. It’s a mysterious glass that returns a Pokémon to its original shape.
Weakness Policy is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder is hit by a super effective move, its Attack and Special Attack raise by two stages. An item to be held by a Pokémon. Attack and Sp. Atk sharply increase if the holder is hit with a move it’s weak to.
Assault Vest is a Pokémon item. Raises the holder’s Special Defense to 1.5×. Prevents the holder from selecting a status move. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This offensive vest raises Sp. Def but prevents the use of status moves.
Pixie Plate is a Pokémon item. Held: Fairy-Type moves from holder do 20% more damage. Changes Arceus’s and Judgment’s type to Fairy. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It is a stone tablet that boosts the power of Fairy-type moves. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It’s a stone tablet that boosts the power of Fairy-type moves.
Ability Capsule is a Pokémon item. Switches a Pokémon between its two possible (non-Hidden) Abilities. A capsule that allows a Pokémon with two Abilities to switch between these Abilities when it is used.
Whipped Dream is a Pokémon item. Traded on a Swirlix: Holder evolves into Slurpuff. A soft and sweet treat made of fluffy, puffy, whipped and whirled cream. It’s loved by a certain Pokémon. A soft and sweet treat made of fluffy, puffy, whipped, and whirled cream. It’s loved by a certain Pokémon.
Sachet is a Pokémon item. Traded on a Spritzee: Holder evolves into Aromatisse. A sachet filled with fragrant perfumes that are just slightly too overwhelming. Yet it’s loved by a certain Pokémon.
Luminous Moss is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder is hit by a damaging Water move, it consumes this item and raises its Special Defense by one stage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Def if hit with a Water- type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Def if hit with a Water-type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Def if the holder is hit with a Water-type attack. It can only be used once.
Snowball is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder is hit by a damaging Ice move, raises its Attack by one stage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Attack if hit with an Ice-type attack. It can only be used once. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Attack if the holder is hit with an Ice-type attack. It can only be used once.
Safety Goggles is a Pokémon item. Held: Prevents damage from powder moves and the damage from Hail and Sandstorm. An item to be held by a Pokémon. These goggles protect the holder from both weather-related damage and powder.
Rich Mulch is a Pokémon item. Increases the total number of Berries by 2. Mulch to be used in a Berry field. It increases the Berry harvest without the need for particularly diligent care. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Surprise Mulch is a Pokémon item. Increases the chance of Berry mutation. Mulch to be used in a Berry field. It causes strange, sudden mutations based on the combination of Berries. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Boost Mulch is a Pokémon item. Causes soil to dry out in 4 hours. Mulch to be used in a Berry field. It increases the Berry harvest that can be grown by diligent watering. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Amaze Mulch is a Pokémon item. Increases the total number of Berries by 2, increases the chance of Berry mutation, and causes soil to dry out in 4 hours. Mulch to be used in a Berry field. An amazing Mulch with the effects of Rich, Surprise, and Boost Mulch. A fertilizer for growing Berries. However, it appears to be unsuitable for the soil in the Hoenn region and has no effect.
Gengarite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Gengar to Mega Evolve into Mega Gengar. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gengar hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gengar hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Gengar to Mega Evolve during battle.
Gardevoirite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Gardevoir to Mega Evolve into Mega Gardevoir. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gardevoir hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gardevoir hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Ampharosite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Ampharos to Mega Evolve into Mega Ampharos. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Ampharos hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Ampharos hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Venusaurite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Venusaur to Mega Evolve into Mega Venusaur. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Venusaur hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Venusaur hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Venusaur to Mega Evolve during battle.
Charizardite X is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Charizard to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Charizard hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Charizard hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Charizard to Mega Evolve during battle.
Blastoisinite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Blastoise to Mega Evolve into Mega Blastoise. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Blastoise hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Blastoise hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Blastoise to Mega Evolve during battle.
Mewtwonite X is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Mewtwo to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo X. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Mewtwo hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Mewtwo hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Mewtwo to Mega Evolve during battle.
Mewtwonite Y is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Mewtwo to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo Y. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Mewtwo hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Mewtwo hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Mewtwo to Mega Evolve during battle.
Blazikenite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Blaziken to Mega Evolve into Mega Blaziken. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Blaziken hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Blaziken hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Medichamite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Medicham to Mega Evolve into Mega Medicham. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Medicham hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Medicham hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Houndoominite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Houndoom to Mega Evolve into Mega Houndoom. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Houndoom hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Houndoom hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Aggronite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Aggron to Mega Evolve into Mega Aggron. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Aggron hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Aggron hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Banettite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Banette to Mega Evolve into Mega Banette. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Banette hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Banette hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Tyranitarite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Tyranitar to Mega Evolve into Mega Tyranitar. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Tyranitar hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Tyranitar hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Scizorite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Scizor to Mega Evolve into Mega Scizor. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Scizor hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Scizor hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Pinsirite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Pinsir to Mega Evolve into Mega Pinsir. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Pinsir hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Pinsir hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Pinsir to Mega Evolve during battle.
Aerodactylite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Aerodactyl to Mega Evolve into Mega Aerodactyl. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Aerodactyl hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Aerodactyl hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Aerodactyl to Mega Evolve during battle.
Lucarionite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Lucario to Mega Evolve into Mega Lucario. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Lucario hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Lucario hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Abomasite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Abomasnow to Mega Evolve into Mega Abomasnow. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Abomasnow hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Abomasnow hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Kangaskhanite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Kangaskhan to Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Kangaskhan hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Kangaskhan hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Kangaskhan to Mega Evolve during battle.
Gyaradosite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Gyarados to Mega Evolve into Mega Gyarados. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gyarados hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gyarados hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Gyarados to Mega Evolve during battle.
Absolite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Absol to Mega Evolve into Mega Absol. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Absol hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Absol hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Charizardite Y is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Charizard to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard Y. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Charizard hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Charizard hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Charizard to Mega Evolve during battle.
Alakazite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Alakazam to Mega Evolve into Mega Alakazam. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Alakazam hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Alakazam hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Alakazam to Mega Evolve during battle.
Heracronite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Heracross to Mega Evolve into Mega Heracross. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Heracross hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Heracross hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Mawilite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Mawile to Mega Evolve into Mega Mawile. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Mawile hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Mawile hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Manectite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Manectric to Mega Evolve into Mega Manectric. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Manectric hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Manectric hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Garchompite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Garchomp to Mega Evolve into Mega Garchomp. One variety of the mysterious Mega Stones. Have Garchomp hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Garchomp hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Roseli Berry is a Pokémon item. Held: Consumed when struck by a super-effective Fairy-type attack to halve the damage. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will lessen the damage taken from one supereffective Fairy-type attack.
Kee Berry is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder is hit by a physical move, increases its Defense by one stage. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will increase the holder’s Defense if it’s hit with a physical move.
Maranga Berry is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder is hit by a special move, increases its Special Defense by one stage. If held by a Pokémon, this Berry will increase the holder’s Sp. Def if it’s hit with a special move.
Discount Coupon is a Pokémon item. Can be used at a boutique for a 50% discount. Consumed once used. This special coupon allows you to buy items at a discount when you are shopping at a boutique.
Strange Souvenir is a Pokémon item. Vendor trash. An ornament depicting a Pokémon that is venerated as a protector in some region far from Kalos. An ornament depicting a mysterious Pokémon that has been venerated as a guardian deity for an extremely long time in the Alola region.
Lumiose Galette is a Pokémon item. Cures all major status ailments and confusion. A popular treat in Lumiose City. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Jaw Fossil is a Pokémon item. Can be revived into a Tyrunt. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived on the land. It looks as if it could be a piece of a large jaw.
Sail Fossil is a Pokémon item. Can be revived into an Amaura. A fossil from a prehistoric Pokémon that once lived on the land. It looks like the impression from a skin sail.
Fairy Gem is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder uses a damaging Fairy move, the move has 1.5× power and this item is consumed. A gem with an essence of the fey. When held, it strengthens the power of a Fairy-type move one time.
Adventure Rules is a Pokémon item. Contains basic gameplay information. This book contains all the points a new Trainer needs to know on a journey. It was handmade by a kind friend. A compact device that automatically collects and records advice when a Trainer is out on an adventure.
Elevator Key is a Pokémon item. Unlocks the elevator in Lysandre Labs. A card key that activates the elevator in Lysandre Labs. It is emblazoned with Team Flare’s logo.
Holo Caster is a Pokémon item. Displays cutscene conversations as the plot advances. A device that allows users to receive and view hologram clips at any time. It is also used to chat with others. A device that allows users to receive and view hologram clips at any time. It’s also used to chat with others.
Honor Of Kalos is a Pokémon item. Does nothing, but signifies becoming Champion. A precious symbol that is awarded only to an individual who has done great things for the Kalos region.
Intriguing Stone is a Pokémon item. Trade for a Sun Stone in X and Y, or Pidgeotite in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. A rather curious stone that might appear to be valuable to some. It’s all in the eye of the beholder. A rather curious stone that might appear valuable to some. It’s all in the eye of the beholder.
Lens Case is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to change their eye color. A rather chic-looking case for carrying contact lenses.
Looker Ticket is a Pokémon item. Advances the Looker postgame plot. A ticket that was handmade by Looker. It’s decorated with a liberal amount of glittery paint.
Mega Ring is a Pokémon item. Allows the player’s Pokémon to Mega Evolve. This ring contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying Mega Stones to Mega Evolve in battle.
Power Plant Pass is a Pokémon item. Permits entry to the Kalos Power Plant. This pass serves as an ID card for gaining access to the power plant that lies along Route 13. This pass serves as an ID card for gaining access to the Power Plant that lies along Route 13.
Profs Letter is a Pokémon item. Traded to the player’s mom for the Town Map and a Potion. A letter that Professor Sycamore wrote to your mother. A faint but pleasant perfume seems to cling to the paper.
Roller Skates is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to move quickly and off the grid. Attaches roller skates to the bottom of your shoes, allowing you to glide quickly around and perform tricks.
Sprinklotad is a Pokémon item. Waters Berry plants. A watering can shaped like a Lotad. It helps promote the healthy growth of any Berries planted in good, soft soil.
Tmv Pass is a Pokémon item. Permits access to Kiloude City. A commuter pass that allows the holder to ride the TMV between Lumiose City and Kiloude City at any time.
Tm96 is a Pokémon item. Teaches a Pokémon TM96. An attack that makes use of nature’s power. Its effects vary depending on the user’s environment. This attack makes use of nature’s power. Its effects vary depending on the user’s environment. The user stabs the target with a sharp horn. This attack never misses.
Tm97 is a Pokémon item. Teaches a Pokémon TM97. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with dark thoughts. This may also make the target flinch. The user swings its body around violently to inflict damage on everything in its vicinity.
Tm98 is a Pokémon item. Teaches a Pokémon TM98. Striking opponents over and over makes the user’s fists harder. Hitting a target raises the Attack stat. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch. Driven by frustration, the user attacks the target. If the user’s previous move has failed, the power of this move doubles.
Tm99 is a Pokémon item. Teaches a Pokémon TM99. The user damages opposing Pokémon by emitting a powerful flash. The user swings its tough tail wildly and attacks opposing Pokémon. This also lowers their Attack stats.
Tm100 is a Pokémon item. Teaches a Pokémon TM100. The user tells the target a secret, and the target loses its ability to concentrate. This lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat.
Latiasite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Latias to Mega Evolve into Mega Latias. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Latias hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Latiosite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Latios to Mega Evolve into Mega Latios. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Latios hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Common Stone is a Pokémon item. Unknown. A perfectly normal stone that might appear to be valuable to some. It’s all in the eye of the beholder.
Makeup Bag is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to change their lipstick color. A rather chic-looking case for carrying lipsticks.
Travel Trunk is a Pokémon item. Unobtainable, but allows the player to change clothes anywhere. A light and yet incredibly effective trunk, which can contain every last piece of clothing that can be bought.
Shalour Sable is a Pokémon item. Cures any major status ailment and confusion. Shalour City’s famous shortbread. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon. The Kalos region’s famous shortbread. It can be used to heal all the status conditions of a single Pokémon.
Mega Charm is a Pokémon item. Unused. This appears as the girlplayer’s Mega Bracelet in Pokémon Contests, but it cannot actually be obtained. This charm contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying Mega Stones to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Glove is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Korrina’s Key Stone in X and Y, but it cannot be obtained by the player. This glove contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying Mega Stones to Mega Evolve in battle.
Devon Parts is a Pokémon item. Allows Captain Stern to set out on his expedition. A case that contains mechanical parts of some sort made by the Devon Corporation.
Pokeblock Kit is a Pokémon item. Creates and stores Pokéblocks. A set containing a Berry Blender for making Pokéblocks and a Pokéblock Case for storing Pokéblocks.
Key To Room 1 is a Pokémon item. Unlocks the door to Room 1 in Sea Mauville. A key that opens a door inside Sea Mauville.
Key To Room 2 is a Pokémon item. Unlocks the door to Room 2 in Sea Mauville. A key that opens a door inside Sea Mauville.
Key To Room 4 is a Pokémon item. Unlocks the door to Room 4 in Sea Mauville. A key that opens a door inside Sea Mauville.
Key To Room 6 is a Pokémon item. Unlocks the door to Room 6 in Sea Mauville. A key that opens a door inside Sea Mauville.
Devon Scuba Gear is a Pokémon item. Worn by the player while underwater via Dive in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. A device made by Devon Corporation that provides oxygen to users during the use of Dive.
Contest Costume  Jacket is a Pokémon item. Worn during Pokémon Contests. A very cool suit to be worn during the Contest Spectacular.
Magma Suit is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to ride Groudon in the Cave of Origin. A suit made with the collective technological know-how of Team Magma. It can withstand any impact.
Aqua Suit is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to ride Kyogre in the Cave of Origin. A suit made with the collective technological know-how of Team Aqua. It can withstand any impact.
Pair Of Tickets is a Pokémon item. Allows the player and their mother to see the star show in the Mossdeep Space Center. Tickets for two to the astronomical show being held at the Mossdeep Space Center.
Mega Bracelet is a Pokémon item. Allows the player’s Pokémon to Mega Evolve. This cuff contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Pendant is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Wally’s Key Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but it cannot be obtained by the player. This necklace contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Glasses is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Maxie’s Key Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but it cannot be obtained by the player. These glasses contain an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Anchor is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Archie’s Key Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but it cannot be obtained by the player. This anchor contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Stickpin is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Steven’s Key Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but it cannot be obtained by the player. This stickpin contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Tiara is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Lisia’s Key Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but it cannot be obtained by the player. This tiara contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Mega Anklet is a Pokémon item. Unused. This is Zinnia’s Key Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but it cannot be obtained by the player. This anklet contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Swampertite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Swampert to Mega Evolve into Mega Swampert. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Swampert hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Sceptilite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Sceptile to Mega Evolve into Mega Sceptile. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Sceptile hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Sablenite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Sableye to Mega Evolve into Mega Sableye. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Sableye hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Altarianite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Altaria to Mega Evolve into Mega Altaria. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Altaria hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Galladite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Gallade to Mega Evolve into Mega Gallade. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Gallade hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Audinite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Audino to Mega Evolve into Mega Audino. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Audino hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Metagrossite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Metagross to Mega Evolve into Mega Metagross. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Metagross hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Sharpedonite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Sharpedo to Mega Evolve into Mega Sharpedo. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Sharpedo hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Slowbronite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Slowbro to Mega Evolve into Mega Slowbro. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Slowbro hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Slowbro to Mega Evolve during battle.
Steelixite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Steelix to Mega Evolve into Mega Steelix. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Steelix hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Pidgeotite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Pidgeot to Mega Evolve into Mega Pidgeot. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Pidgeot hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Pidgeot to Mega Evolve during battle.
Glalitite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Glalie to Mega Evolve into Mega Glalie. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Glalie hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Diancite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Diancie to Mega Evolve into Mega Diancie. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Diancie hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Prison Bottle is a Pokémon item. Transforms Hoopa into its Unbound form for up to three days. A bottle believed to have been used to seal away the power of a certain Pokémon long, long ago.
Mega Cuff is a Pokémon item. Unused. This appears as the boy player’s Mega Bracelet in Pokémon Contests, but it cannot actually be obtained. This bracelet contains an untold power that somehow enables Pokémon carrying a Mega Stone to Mega Evolve in battle.
Cameruptite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Camerupt to Mega Evolve into Mega Camerupt. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Camerupt hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Lopunnite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Lopunny to Mega Evolve into Mega Lopunny. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Lopunny hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Salamencite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Salamence to Mega Evolve into Mega Salamence. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Salamence hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle.
Beedrillite is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Beedrill to Mega Evolve into Mega Beedrill. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. Have Beedrill hold it, and this stone will enable it to Mega Evolve during battle. One of a variety of mysterious Mega Stones. This stone will enable Beedrill to Mega Evolve during battle.
Key Stone is a Pokémon item. Allows the player’s Pokémon to Mega Evolve. A stone filled with an unexplained power. It makes Pokémon that battle with a Mega Stone Mega Evolve. A stone filled with an unexplained power. It reacts to Mega Stones and makes Pokémon Mega Evolve.
Meteorite Shard is a Pokémon item. Causes the Meteorite to transform to its final form, allowing Rayquaza to Mega Evolve. One of the fragments of a Meteorite from Granite Cave. It’s faintly warm to the touch.
Eon Flute is a Pokémon item. Summons Latias or Latios for a ride. A flute that can be used to summon Latios or Latias no matter where you are.
Normalium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Normal moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Normal-type moves to Z-Moves.
Firium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Fire moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Fire-type moves to Z-Moves.
Waterium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Water moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Water-type moves to Z-Moves.
Electrium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Electric moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Electric-type moves to Z-Moves.
Grassium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Grass moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Grass-type moves to Z-Moves.
Icium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Ice moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Ice-type moves to Z-Moves.
Fightinium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Fighting moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Fighting-type moves to Z-Moves.
Poisonium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Poison moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Poison-type moves to Z-Moves.
Groundium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Ground moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Ground-type moves to Z-Moves.
Flyinium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Flying moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Flying-type moves to Z-Moves.
Psychium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Psychic moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Psychic-type moves to Z-Moves.
Buginium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Bug moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Bug-type moves to Z-Moves.
Rockium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Rock moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Rock-type moves to Z-Moves.
Ghostium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Ghost moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Ghost-type moves to Z-Moves.
Dragonium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Dragon moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Dragon-type moves to Z-Moves.
Darkinium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Dark moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Dark-type moves to Z-Moves.
Steelium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Steel moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Steel-type moves to Z-Moves.
Fairium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows a Pokémon to use the Z-move equivalents of its Fairy moves. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Fairy-type moves to Z-Moves.
Pikanium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows pikachu to upgrade volt tackle into catastropika. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Pikachu’s Volt Tackle to a Z-Move.
Bottle Cap is a Pokémon item. Trade to Mr. Hyper to set one of a Pokémon’s genes to 31. A beautiful bottle cap that gives off a silver gleam. Some people are happy to receive one.
Gold Bottle Cap is a Pokémon item. Trade to Mr. Hyper to set all of a Pokémon’s genes to 31. A beautiful bottle cap that gives off a golden gleam. Some people are happy to receive one.
Z Ring is a Pokémon item. Allows the player’s Pokémon to use Z-moves. A mysterious ring that enables Pokémon to use Z-Power. It requires both the willpower and the physical power of the Trainer wearing it.
Decidium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows decidueye to upgrade spirit shackle into sinister arrow raid. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Decidueye’s Spirit Shackle to a Z-Move.
Incinium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows incineroar to upgrade darkest lariat into malicious moonsault. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Incineroar’s Darkest Lariat to a Z-Move.
Primarium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows primarina to upgrade sparkling aria into oceanic operetta. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Primarina’s Sparkling Aria to a Z-Move.
Tapunium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows tapu koko, tapu lele, tapu bulu, and tapu fini to upgrade natures madness into guardian of alola. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades the tapu’s Nature’s Madness to a Z-Move.
Marshadium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows marshadow to upgrade spectral thief into soul stealing 7 star strike. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Marshadow’s Spectral Thief to a Z-Move.
Aloraichium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows Alola raichu to upgrade thunderbolt into stoked sparksurfer. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Alolan Raichu’s Thunderbolt to a Z-Move.
Snorlium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows snorlax to upgrade giga impact into pulverizing pancake. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Snorlax’s Giga Impact to a Z-Move.
Eevium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows eevee to upgrade last resort into extreme evoboost. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Eevee’s Last Resort to a Z-Move.
Mewnium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows mew to upgrade psychic into genesis supernova. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Mew’s Psychic to a Z-Move.
Pikashunium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. Held: Allows cap-wearing pikachu to upgrade thunderbolt into 10 000 000 volt thunderbolt. This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades a Thunderbolt by Pikachu in a cap to a Z-Move.
Forage Bag is a Pokémon item. Holds ingredients during Mallow’s trial. A bag to carry ingredients gathered during Mallow’s trial in the jungle.
Fishing Rod is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to fish for Pokémon. A Fishing Rod made by Captain Lana. Cast a line over piles of underwater rocks to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon. A fishing rod made by Captain Lana. Cast a line over piles of underwater rocks to fish for wild aquatic Pokémon.
Professors Mask is a Pokémon item. Lost by Professor Kukui. The mask that belongs to The Masked Royal. This pro wrestler apparently sews his mask on a machine himself.
Festival Ticket is a Pokémon item. Hosts a mission in Festival Plaza. A ticket that allows you to host a mission in Festival Plaza.
Sparkling Stone is a Pokémon item. Required to obtain a Z-Ring. A stone entrusted by a Pokémon that has been venerated as a guardian deity in the Alola region. There is said to be some secret in how it sparkles.
Adrenaline Orb is a Pokémon item. Makes wild Pokémon more likely to summon allies. Held: increases the holder’s Speed by one stage when affected by Intimidate. Using it makes wild Pokémon more likely to call for help. If held by a Pokémon, it boosts Speed when intimidated. It can be used only once. Using it makes wild Pokémon call for help a number of times. If held by a Pokémon, it boosts Speed when intimidated. It can be used only once. If held by a Pokémon, it boosts Speed when intimidated.
Zygarde Cube is a Pokémon item. Contains collected Zygarde cells/cores. Can teach Zygarde moves. An item to store Zygarde Cores and Cells. You can also use it to teach Zygarde moves. An item in which Zygarde Cores and Cells are gathered. You can also use it to change Zygarde’s forms.
Ice Stone is a Pokémon item. Used on a party Pokémon : Evolves an Alola sandshrew into Alola sandslash or an Alola vulpix into Alola ninetales. A peculiar stone that can make certain species of Pokémon evolve. It has an unmistakable snowflake pattern.
Ride Pager is a Pokémon item. Allows the player to summon a Ride Pokémon. Unused, as this can be done simply by pressing Y. By entering certain numbers on this pager, you can summon Ride Pokémon in an instant.
Beast Ball is a Pokémon item. Used in battle : Attempts to catch a wild Pokémon. If the wild Pokémon is an Ultra Beast, this ball has a catch rate of 5×. Otherwise, it has a catch rate of 0.1×. If used in a trainer battle, nothing happens and the ball is lost. A special Poké Ball designed to catch Ultra Beasts. It has a low success rate for catching others. A somewhat different Poké Ball that has a low success rate for catching a Pokémon.
Big Malasada is a Pokémon item. Cures major status ailments and confusion. The Alola region’s local specialty—fried bread. It can be used once to heal all the status conditions of a Pokémon.
Red Nectar is a Pokémon item. Changes Oricorio to Baile Style. Single-use and cannot be used in battle. A flower nectar obtained at Ula’ula Meadow. It changes the form of certain species of Pokémon.
Yellow Nectar is a Pokémon item. Changes Oricorio to Pom-Pom Style. Single-use and cannot be used in battle. A flower nectar obtained at Melemele Meadow. It changes the form of certain species of Pokémon.
Pink Nectar is a Pokémon item. Changes Oricorio to Pa’u Style. Single-use and cannot be used in battle. The flower nectar obtained at the flowering shrubs on Royal Avenue. It changes the form of certain species of Pokémon. A flower nectar obtained from the flowering shrubs on Royal Avenue. It changes the form of certain species of Pokémon.
Purple Nectar is a Pokémon item. Changes Oricorio to Sensu Style. Single-use and cannot be used in battle. A flower nectar obtained at Poni Meadow. It changes the form of certain species of Pokémon.
Sun Flute is a Pokémon item. Evolves Nebby into Solgaleo when used at the Altar of the Sunne. It is said that the tones it produces were offered up as an expression of gratitude to the Legendary Pokémon of the sun.
Moon Flute is a Pokémon item. Evolves Nebby into Lunala when used at the Altar of the Moone. It is said that the tones it produces were offered up as an expression of gratitude to the Legendary Pokémon of the moon.
Enigmatic Card is a Pokémon item. Unlocks Looker’s motel room on Route 8. A mysterious card. Written on it is a request for you to go to a guest room in an Akala motel on Route 8.
Terrain Extender is a Pokémon item. Held: When the holder changes the Terrain (whether by move or ability), it will last 8 turns instead of 5. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It extends the duration of the terrain caused by the holder’s move or Ability.
Protective Pads is a Pokémon item. Held: Prevents side effects of contact moves used on the holder. An item to be held by a Pokémon. These pads protect the holder from effects caused by making direct contact with the target.
Electric Seed is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder enters battle during Electric Terrain, or if Electric Terrain is activated while the holder is in battle, this item is consumed and the holder’s Defense raises by one stage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Defense on Electric Terrain. It can only be used once.
Psychic Seed is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder enters battle during Psychic Terrain, or if Psychic Terrain is activated while the holder is in battle, this item is consumed and the holder’s Special Defense raises by one stage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Def on Psychic Terrain. It can only be used once.
Misty Seed is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder enters battle during Misty Terrain, or if Misty Terrain is activated while the holder is in battle, this item is consumed and the holder’s Special Defense raises by one stage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Sp. Def on Misty Terrain. It can only be used once.
Grassy Seed is a Pokémon item. Held: If the holder enters battle during Grassy Terrain, or if Grassy Terrain is activated while the holder is in battle, this item is consumed and the holder’s Defense raises by one stage. An item to be held by a Pokémon. It boosts Defense on Grassy Terrain. It can only be used once.
Fighting Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Fighting form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Fighting. A memory disc that contains Fighting-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Flying Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Flying form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Flying. A memory disc that contains Flying-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Poison Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Poison form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Poison. A memory disc that contains Poison-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Ground Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Ground form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Ground. A memory disc that contains Ground-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Rock Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Rock form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Rock. A memory disc that contains Rock-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Bug Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Bug form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Bug. A memory disc that contains Bug-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Ghost Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Ghost form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Ghost. A memory disc that contains Ghost-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Steel Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Steel form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Steel. A memory disc that contains Steel-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Fire Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Fire form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Fire. A memory disc that contains Fire-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Water Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Water form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Water. A memory disc that contains Water-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Grass Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Grass form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Grass. A memory disc that contains Grass-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Electric Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Electric form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Electric. A memory disc that contains Electric-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Psychic Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Psychic form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Psychic. A memory disc that contains Psychic-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Ice Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Ice form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Ice. A memory disc that contains Ice-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Dragon Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Dragon form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Dragon. A memory disc that contains Dragon-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Dark Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Dark form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Dark. A memory disc that contains Dark-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Fairy Memory is a Pokémon item. Held: Changes Silvally to its Fairy form. Changes Multi-Attack’s type to Fairy. A memory disc that contains Fairy-type data. It changes the type of the holder if held by a certain species of Pokémon.
Bike  Green is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for bike--green A folding Bike that enables a rider to get around much faster than with Running Shoes. A folding bike that enables a rider to get around much faster than with Running Shoes.
Storage Key  Galactic Warehouse is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for storage-key--galactic-warehouse The key to Team Galactic’s sinister warehouse located at the edge of Veilstone City.
Basement Key  Goldenrod is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for basement-key--goldenrod A key that opens a door in the Goldenrod Tunnel.
Xtransceiver  Red is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for xtranceiver--red A high-tech transceiver with a camera function. It allows up to four-way calls.
Xtransceiver  Yellow is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for xtranceiver--yellow A high-tech transceiver with a camera function. It allows up to four-way calls.
Dna Splicers  Merge is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for dna-splicers--merge A splicer that fuses Kyurem and a certain Pokémon. They are said to have been one in the beginning.
Dna Splicers  Split is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for dna-splicers--split A splicer that separates Kyurem and a certain Pokémon when they have been fused.
Dropped Item  Red is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for dropped-item--red The Xtransceiver found at the Nimbasa City amusement park. It seems it belongs to a boy.
Dropped Item  Yellow is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for dropped-item--yellow The Xtransceiver found at the Nimbasa City amusement park. It seems it belongs to a girl.
Holo Caster  Green is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for holo-caster--green A device that allows users to receive and view hologram clips at any time. It’s also used to chat with others.
Bike  Yellow is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for bike--yellow A folding bike that enables a rider to get around much faster than with Running Shoes. A folding Bike that enables a rider to get around much faster than with Running Shoes.
Holo Caster  Red is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for holo-caster--red A device that allows users to receive and view hologram clips at any time. It’s also used to chat with others.
Basement Key  New Mauville is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for basement-key--new-mauville The key to New Mauville, which was constructed beneath Mauville City.
Storage Key  Sea Mauville is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for storage-key--sea-mauville A key that opens the storage hold inside Sea Mauville.
Ss Ticket  Hoenn is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for ss-ticket--hoenn Ticket required for sailing on a ferry.
Contest Costume  Dress is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for contest-costume--dress A very cute dress to be worn during the Contest Spectacular.
Meteorite  2 is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for meteorite--2 A Meteorite that you got at Mt. Chimney. It gives off a faint glow.
Meteorite  3 is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for meteorite--3 A Meteorite that you got at Mt. Chimney. It continues to give off a faint glow and is slightly warm to the touch.
Meteorite  4 is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for meteorite--4 A Meteorite that you got at Mt. Chimney. Some sort of pattern has risen to the surface, and it’s shining with seven colors of light.
Normalium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for normalium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Normal-type moves to Normal-type Z-Moves.
Firium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for firium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Fire-type moves to Fire-type Z-Moves.
Waterium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for waterium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Water-type moves to Water-type Z-Moves.
Electrium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for electrium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Electric-type moves to Electric-type Z-Moves.
Grassium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for grassium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Grass-type moves to Grass-type Z-Moves.
Icium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for icium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Ice-type moves to Ice-type Z-Moves.
Fightinium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for fightinium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Fighting-type moves to Fighting-type Z-Moves.
Poisonium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for poisonium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Poison-type moves to Poison-type Z-Moves.
Groundium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for groundium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Ground-type moves to Ground-type Z-Moves.
Flyinium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for flyinium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Flying-type moves to Flying-type Z-Moves.
Psychium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for psychium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Psychic-type moves to Psychic-type Z-Moves.
Buginium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for buginium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Bug-type moves to Bug-type Z-Moves.
Rockium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for rockium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Rock-type moves to Rock-type Z-Moves.
Ghostium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for ghostium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Ghost-type moves to Ghost-type Z-Moves.
Dragonium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for dragonium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Dragon-type moves to Dragon-type Z-Moves.
Darkinium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for darkinium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Dark-type moves to Dark-type Z-Moves.
Steelium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for steelium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Steel-type moves to Steel-type Z-Moves.
Fairium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for fairium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Fairy-type moves to Fairy-type Z-Moves.
Pikanium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for pikanium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Pikachu’s Volt Tackle to an exclusive Z-Move.
Decidium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for decidium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Decidueye’s Spirit Shackle to an exclusive Z-Move.
Incinium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for incinium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Incineroar’s Darkest Lariat to an exclusive Z-Move.
Primarium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for primarium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Primarina’s Sparkling Aria to an exclusive Z-Move.
Tapunium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for tapunium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade the tapu’s Nature’s Madness to an exclusive Z-Move.
Marshadium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for marshadium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Marshadow’s Spectral Thief to an exclusive Z-Move.
Aloraichium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for aloraichium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Alolan Raichu’s Thunderbolt to an exclusive Z-Move.
Snorlium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for snorlium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Snorlax’s Giga Impact to an exclusive Z-Move.
Eevium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for eevium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Eevee’s Last Resort to an exclusive Z-Move.
Mewnium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for mewnium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Mew’s Psychic to an exclusive Z-Move.
Pikashunium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for pikashunium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade a Thunderbolt by Pikachu in a cap to an exclusive Z-Move.
Solganium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for solganium-z--held This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Solgaleo’s Sunsteel Strike to a Z-Move.
Lunalium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for lunalium-z--held This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Lunala’s Moongeist Beam to a Z-Move.
Ultranecrozium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for ultranecrozium-z--held This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Necrozma’s Photon Geyser to a Z-Move.
Mimikium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for mimikium-z--held This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Mimikyu’s Play Rough to a Z-Move.
Lycanium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for lycanium-z--held This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Lycanroc’s Stone Edge to a Z-Move.
Kommonium Z  Held is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for kommonium-z--held This is a crystallized form of Z-Power. It upgrades Kommo-o’s Clanging Scales to a Z-Move.
Solganium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for solganium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Solgaleo’s Sunsteel Strike to an exclusive Z-Move.
Lunalium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for lunalium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Lunala’s Moongeist Beam to an exclusive Z-Move.
Ultranecrozium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for ultranecrozium-z--bag It’s a crystal that turns Necrozma fused with Solgaleo or Lunala into a new form.
Mimikium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for mimikium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Mimikyu’s Play Rough to an exclusive Z-Move.
Lycanium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for lycanium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Lycanroc’s Stone Edge to an exclusive Z-Move.
Kommonium Z  Bag is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for kommonium-z--bag It converts Z-Power into crystals that upgrade Kommo-o’s Clanging Scales to an exclusive Z-Move.
Z Power Ring is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for z-power-ring A mysterious ring that enables Pokémon to use Z-Power. It requires both the willpower and the physical power of the Trainer wearing it.
Pink Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for pink-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Mina during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Orange Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for orange-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Ilima during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Blue Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for blue-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Lana during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Red Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for red-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Kiawe during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Green Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for green-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Mallow during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Yellow Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for yellow-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Sophocles during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Purple Petal is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for purple-petal A pressed flower petal you receive from Nanu during Mina’s trial. The goal is to collect seven different kinds of petals.
Rainbow Flower is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for rainbow-flower A flower made of the petals you received from captains. It’s proof that your growth has been recognized by them.
Surge Badge is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for surge-badge A novelty badge that you can receive at the Kantonian Gym. Rumor has it that it imitates the Badge of a Gym somewhere.
N Solarizer  Merge is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for n-solarizer--merge A machine to fuse Necrozma, which needs light, and Solgaleo.
N Lunarizer  Merge is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for n-lunarizer--merge A machine to fuse Necrozma, which needs light, and Lunala.
N Solarizer  Split is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for n-solarizer--split A machine to separate Necrozma, which needed light, from Solgaleo.
N Lunarizer  Split is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for n-lunarizer--split A machine to separate Necrozma, which needed light, from Lunala.
Ilimas Normalium Z is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for ilimas-normalium-z The Normalium Z you were entrusted with by Ilima. You were asked to place it on the pedestal at the back of Verdant Cavern.
Left Poke Ball is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for left-poke-ball A Poké Ball with a Pokémon that lost its Trainer inside. It seems to be from Ula’ula Island.
Roto Hatch is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-hatch One of the Rotom Powers. It helps Eggs hatch faster.
Roto Bargain is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-bargain One of the Rotom Powers. It reduces the prices of products at Poké Marts by half.
Roto Prize Money is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-prize-money One of the Rotom Powers. It triples the prize money you receive after battle.
Roto Exp Points is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-exp-points One of the Rotom Powers. It increases the Exp. Points your Pokémon receive after battle a little.
Roto Friendship is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-friendship One of the Rotom Powers. It helps Pokémon in your party grow friendly faster.
Roto Encounter is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-encounter One of the Rotom Powers. It increases the chance of encountering high-level wild Pokémon a lot for a certain period of time.
Roto Stealth is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-stealth One of the Rotom Powers. It prevents you from encountering wild Pokémon for a certain period of time.
Roto Hp Restore is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-hp-restore One of the Rotom Powers. It fully restores the HP of your battling Pokémon.
Roto Pp Restore is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-pp-restore One of the Rotom Powers. It fully restores the PP of your battling Pokémon.
Roto Boost is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-boost One of the Rotom Powers. It raises all stats of your battling Pokémon.
Roto Catch is a Pokémon item. XXX new effect for roto-catch One of the Rotom Powers. It increases the chance to catch Pokémon a lot.
Autograph is a Pokémon item. The autograph you got from the Vermilion City Gym Leader, Lt. Surge. He wrote, “Good luck!”
Pokemon Box is a Pokémon item. - - -
Medicine Pocket is a Pokémon item. - - -
Candy Jar is a Pokémon item. - - -
Power Up Pocket is a Pokémon item. - - -
Clothing Trunk is a Pokémon item. A very light trunk that can carry clothing for you and your Pokémon.
Catching Pocket is a Pokémon item. - - -
Battle Pocket is a Pokémon item. - - -
Silver Razz Berry is a Pokémon item. A Berry that makes it easier to catch Pokémon when given to them.
Golden Razz Berry is a Pokémon item. A Berry that makes it drastically easier to catch Pokémon when given to them.
Silver Nanab Berry is a Pokémon item. A Berry that calms wild Pokémon you’re trying to catch when given to them.
Golden Nanab Berry is a Pokémon item. A Berry that calms wild Pokémon you’re trying to catch drastically when given to them.
Silver Pinap Berry is a Pokémon item. A Berry that makes you more likely to get an item when given to Pokémon you’re trying to catch.
Golden Pinap Berry is a Pokémon item. A Berry that makes you drastically more likely to get an item when given to Pokémon you’re trying to catch.
Secret Key  Letsgo is a Pokémon item. The key that unlocks the front door of the Pokémon Gym on Cinnabar Island. It has a red decoration.
Ss Ticket  Letsgo is a Pokémon item. The ticket required to board the S.S. Anne. It has a drawing of a ship on it.
Parcel  Letsgo is a Pokémon item. A parcel to be delivered to Professor Oak from Viridian City’s Poké Mart.
Card Key  Letsgo is a Pokémon item. A card key that unlocks doors in Silph Co.’s head office in Saffron City.
Stretchy Spring is a Pokémon item. A thin small spring. It’s totally stretched out, and what it’s used for is unknown.
Chalky Stone is a Pokémon item. A small whitish stone picked up at the edge of the road.
Marble is a Pokémon item. A round glass marble. You can see colored glass inside the transparent marble.
Lone Earring is a Pokémon item. A single earring that somebody dropped.
Beach Glass is a Pokémon item. A piece of colored glass. Waves have rounded its edges. It’s slightly rough to the touch.
Gold Leaf is a Pokémon item. A mysterious gold leaf. No trees with this leaf have been found yet.
Silver Leaf is a Pokémon item. A mysterious silver leaf. No trees with this leaf have been found yet.
Polished Mud Ball is a Pokémon item. A ball made of mud. It had been polished for such a long time that the surface is very shiny.
Tropical Shell is a Pokémon item. A beautiful white shell that may have drifted from a sea in a warm region.
Leaf Letter  Pikachu is a Pokémon item. A letter written on a leaf. Something is written using Pikachu’s footprints.
Leaf Letter  Eevee is a Pokémon item. A letter written on a leaf. Something is written using Eevee’s footprints.
Small Bouquet is a Pokémon item. A small bouquet that was made with heart and soul for a single Trainer.
Lure is a Pokémon item. A glass bottle of perfume that makes rare Pokémon more likely to appear.
Super Lure is a Pokémon item. A glass bottle of perfume that makes rare Pokémon more likely to appear. It lasts longer than a Lure.
Max Lure is a Pokémon item. A glass bottle of perfume that makes rare Pokémon more likely to appear. It lasts longer than a Super Lure.
Pewter Crunchies is a Pokémon item. Pewter City’s famous crunchy snack. They can be used to heal all status conditions of a single Pokémon.
Health Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon, it will increase that Pokémon’s HP.
Mighty Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon, it will increase that Pokémon’s Attack stat.
Tough Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon, it will increase that Pokémon’s Defense stat.
Smart Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon, it will increase that Pokémon’s Sp. Atk stat.
Courage Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon, it will increase that Pokémon’s Sp. Def stat.
Quick Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon, it will increase that Pokémon’s Speed stat.
Health Candy L is a Pokémon item. A big candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 30 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s HP.
Mighty Candy L is a Pokémon item. A big candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 30 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Attack stat.
Tough Candy L is a Pokémon item. A big candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 30 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Defense stat.
Smart Candy L is a Pokémon item. A big candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 30 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Sp. Atk stat.
Courage Candy L is a Pokémon item. A big candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 30 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Sp. Def stat.
Quick Candy L is a Pokémon item. A big candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 30 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Speed stat.
Health Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A huge candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 60 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s HP.
Mighty Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A huge candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 60 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Attack stat.
Tough Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A huge candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 60 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Defense stat.
Smart Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A huge candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 60 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Sp. Atk stat.
Courage Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A huge candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 60 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Sp. Def stat.
Quick Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A huge candy that is packed with energy. When given to a Pokémon at Lv. 60 or higher, it will increase that Pokémon’s Speed stat.
Bulbasaur Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Charmander Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Squirtle Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Caterpie Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Weedle Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Pidgey Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Rattata Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Spearow Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Ekans Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Pikachu Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Sandshrew Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Nidoran F Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Nidoran M Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Clefairy Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Vulpix Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Jigglypuff Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Zubat Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Oddish Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Paras Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Venonat Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Diglett Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Meowth Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Psyduck Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Mankey Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Growlithe Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Poliwag Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Abra Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Machop Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Bellsprout Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Tentacool Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Geodude Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Ponyta Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Slowpoke Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Magnemite Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Farfetchd Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Doduo Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Seel Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Grimer Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Shellder Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Gastly Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Onix Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Drowzee Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Krabby Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Voltorb Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Exeggcute Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Cubone Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Hitmonlee Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Hitmonchan Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Lickitung Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Koffing Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Rhyhorn Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Chansey Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Tangela Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Kangaskhan Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Horsea Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Goldeen Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Staryu Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Mr Mime Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Scyther Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Jynx Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Electabuzz Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Pinsir Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Tauros Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Magikarp Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Lapras Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Ditto Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Eevee Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Porygon Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Omanyte Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Kabuto Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Aerodactyl Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Snorlax Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Articuno Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Zapdos Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Moltres Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Dratini Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Mewtwo Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Mew Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Meltan Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Magmar Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When given to certain Pokémon, it will increase all their stats at once.
Endorsement is a Pokémon item. A letter of recommendation that you’ll need in order to participate in the Gym Challenge.
Pokemon Box Link is a Pokémon item. A device that allows you to access the Pokémon storage system. There are some places where it won’t work.
Wishing Star is a Pokémon item. A stone found in the Galar region with a mysterious power. It’s said that your dreams come true if you find one.
Dynamax Band is a Pokémon item. A Wishing Star has been affixed to it. It lets out a light that allows Pokémon to Dynamax when at a Power Spot.
Fishing Rod  Galar is a Pokémon item. Use it by the water to fish up various kinds of Pokémon.
Rotom Bike is a Pokémon item. This bike can be combined with the Pokémon Rotom to use a turbo boost.
Sausages is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. These sausages should be boiled before eating.
Bobs Food Tin is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The tinned food that Bob sells is curiously popular in Galar.
Bachs Food Tin is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The tinned food that Bach sells is curiously popular in Galar.
Tin Of Beans is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. When simmered, the beans suffuse a dish with their mild flavor.
Bread is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. An indispensable tool for mopping up that extra curry left on your plate.
Pasta is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. These flour noodles make for a surprisingly good match with curry.
Mixed Mushrooms is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The chewy texture of the mushrooms transforms any dish they’re added to.
Smoke Poke Tail is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. When a Slowpoke’s tail falls off, it grows back quickly.
Large Leek is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Whether this is the kind of vegetable stalk that Farfetch’d like is unknown.
Fancy Apple is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. An apple chosen above others. It has spectacular form and a brilliant sheen.
Brittle Bones is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The taste boiled off from the bones is sure to give a dish a light umami taste.
Pack Of Potatoes is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Potatoes help mellow out a spicy taste, to make a dish more mild.
Pungent Root is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Though carelessly picked, these herbs can add a fragrant accent to a dish.
Salad Mix is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The assortment of vegetables looks quite appealing and healthy.
Fried Food is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. It’s been a while since it was fried, so it’s gotten greasy.
Boiled Egg is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Even just one boiled egg can really enhance a dish.
Camping Gear is a Pokémon item. Everything you need to set up a tent and get cooking in a Wild Area or at a camping spot.
Rusted Sword is a Pokémon item. It is said that a hero used this sword to halt a terrible disaster in ancient times. But it’s grown rusty and worn.
Rusted Shield is a Pokémon item. It is said that a hero used this shield to halt a terrible disaster in ancient times. But it’s grown rusty and worn.
Fossilized Bird is a Pokémon item. The fossil of an ancient Pokémon that once soared through the sky. What it looked like is a mystery.
Fossilized Fish is a Pokémon item. The fossil of an ancient Pokémon that once lived in the sea. What it looked like is a mystery.
Fossilized Drake is a Pokémon item. The fossil of an ancient Pokémon that once roamed the land. What it looked like is a mystery.
Fossilized Dino is a Pokémon item. The fossil of an ancient Pokémon that once lived in the sea. What it looked like is a mystery.
Strawberry Sweet is a Pokémon item. A strawberry-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it will spin around happily.
Love Sweet is a Pokémon item. A heart-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it spins around happily.
Berry Sweet is a Pokémon item. A berry-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it spins around happily.
Clover Sweet is a Pokémon item. A clover-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it spins around happily.
Flower Sweet is a Pokémon item. A flower-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it spins around happily.
Star Sweet is a Pokémon item. A star-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it spins around happily.
Ribbon Sweet is a Pokémon item. A ribbon-shaped sweet. When a Milcery holds this, it spins around happily.
Sweet Apple is a Pokémon item. A peculiar apple that can make a certain species of Pokémon evolve. It’s exceptionally sweet.
Tart Apple is a Pokémon item. A peculiar apple that can make a certain species of Pokémon evolve. It’s exceptionally tart.
Throat Spray is a Pokémon item. Raises Sp. Atk when a Pokémon uses a sound-based move.
Eject Pack is a Pokémon item. An item to be held by a Pokémon. When the holder’s stats are lowered, it will be switched out of battle.
Heavy Duty Boots is a Pokémon item. These boots prevent the effects of traps set on the battlefield.
Blunder Policy is a Pokémon item. Raises Speed sharply when a Pokémon misses with a move because of accuracy.
Room Service is a Pokémon item. An item to be held by a Pokémon. Lowers Speed when Trick Room takes effect.
Utility Umbrella is a Pokémon item. An item to be held by a Pokémon. This sturdy umbrella protects the holder from the effects of rain and harsh sunlight.
Exp Candy Xs is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will grant a single Pokémon a very small amount of Exp. Points.
Exp Candy S is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will grant a single Pokémon a small amount of Exp. Points.
Exp Candy M is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will grant a single Pokémon a moderate amount of Exp. Points.
Exp Candy L is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will grant a single Pokémon a large amount of Exp. Points.
Exp Candy Xl is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will grant a single Pokémon a very large amount of Exp. Points.
Dynamax Candy is a Pokémon item. A candy that is packed with energy. When consumed, it will raise the Dynamax Level of a single Pokémon by one. A higher level means higher HP when Dynamaxed.
Tr00 is a Pokémon item. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. This sharply raises the user’s Attack stat.
Tr01 is a Pokémon item. The user drops onto the target with its full body weight. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Tr02 is a Pokémon item. The target is scorched with an intense blast of fire. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Tr03 is a Pokémon item. The target is blasted by a huge volume of water launched under great pressure.
Tr04 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave.
Tr05 is a Pokémon item. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. This may also leave the target frozen.
Tr06 is a Pokémon item. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike opposing Pokémon. This may also leave the opposing Pokémon frozen.
Tr07 is a Pokémon item. A powerful low kick that makes the target fall over. The heavier the target, the greater the move’s power.
Tr08 is a Pokémon item. A strong electric blast crashes down on the target. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Tr09 is a Pokémon item. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the target to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Tr10 is a Pokémon item. The user sets off an earthquake that strikes every Pokémon around it.
Tr11 is a Pokémon item. The target is hit by a strong telekinetic force. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr12 is a Pokémon item. The user relaxes and lightens its body to move faster. This sharply raises the Speed stat.
Tr13 is a Pokémon item. The user takes a deep breath and focuses so that critical hits land more easily.
Tr14 is a Pokémon item. The user waggles a finger and stimulates its brain into randomly using nearly any move.
Tr15 is a Pokémon item. The target is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Tr16 is a Pokémon item. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch.
Tr17 is a Pokémon item. The user temporarily empties its mind to forget its concerns. This sharply raises the user’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr18 is a Pokémon item. The user drains the target’s blood. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target.
Tr19 is a Pokémon item. The user strikes with a simultaneous three-beam attack. This may also burn, freeze, or paralyze the target.
Tr20 is a Pokémon item. The user creates a substitute for itself using some of its HP. The substitute serves as the user’s decoy.
Tr21 is a Pokémon item. An all-out attack that becomes more powerful the less HP the user has.
Tr22 is a Pokémon item. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. This may also poison the target.
Tr23 is a Pokémon item. The user lays a trap of spikes at the opposing team’s feet. The trap hurts Pokémon that switch into battle.
Tr24 is a Pokémon item. The user rampages and attacks for two to three turns. The user then becomes confused.
Tr25 is a Pokémon item. The user materializes an odd psychic wave to attack the target. This attack does physical damage.
Tr26 is a Pokémon item. The user endures any attack with at least 1 HP. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Tr27 is a Pokémon item. While it is asleep, the user randomly uses one of the moves it knows.
Tr28 is a Pokémon item. Using its tough and impressive horn, the user rams into the target with no letup.
Tr29 is a Pokémon item. The user switches places with a party Pokémon in waiting and passes along any stat changes.
Tr30 is a Pokémon item. The user compels the target to keep using the move it encored for three turns.
Tr31 is a Pokémon item. The target is slammed with a steel-hard tail. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat.
Tr32 is a Pokémon item. The user crunches up the target with sharp fangs. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat.
Tr33 is a Pokémon item. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr34 is a Pokémon item. Two turns after this move is used, a hunk of psychic energy attacks the target.
Tr35 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks in an uproar for three turns. During that time, no Pokémon can fall asleep.
Tr36 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks by exhaling hot breath on opposing Pokémon. This may also leave those Pokémon with a burn.
Tr37 is a Pokémon item. The target is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves for three turns.
Tr38 is a Pokémon item. The user catches the target off guard and swaps its held item with its own.
Tr39 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks the target with great power. However, this also lowers the user’s Attack and Defense stats.
Tr40 is a Pokémon item. The user employs its psychic power to exchange Abilities with the target.
Tr41 is a Pokémon item. The user launches a kick that lands a critical hit more easily. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Tr42 is a Pokémon item. The user lets loose a horribly echoing shout with the power to inflict damage.
Tr43 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat.
Tr44 is a Pokémon item. The user absorbs a mystical power from space to raise its Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Tr45 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks by shooting muddy water at opposing Pokémon. This may also lower their accuracy.
Tr46 is a Pokémon item. The user hardens its body’s surface like iron, sharply raising its Defense stat.
Tr47 is a Pokémon item. The user slashes the target with huge sharp claws.
Tr48 is a Pokémon item. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, raising both its Attack and Defense stats.
Tr49 is a Pokémon item. The user quietly focuses its mind and calms its spirit to raise its Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats.
Tr50 is a Pokémon item. The user handles a sharp leaf like a sword and attacks by cutting its target. Critical hits land more easily.
Tr51 is a Pokémon item. The user vigorously performs a mystic, powerful dance that raises its Attack and Speed stats.
Tr52 is a Pokémon item. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user compared to the target, the greater the move’s power.
Tr53 is a Pokémon item. The user fights the target up close without guarding itself. This also lowers the user’s Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Tr54 is a Pokémon item. The user lays a trap of poison spikes at the feet of the opposing team. The spikes will poison opposing Pokémon that switch into battle.
Tr55 is a Pokémon item. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges the target. This also damages the user quite a lot. This attack may leave the target with a burn.
Tr56 is a Pokémon item. The user lets loose a blast of aura power from deep within its body at the target. This attack never misses.
Tr57 is a Pokémon item. The target is stabbed with a tentacle, arm, or the like steeped in poison. This may also poison the target.
Tr58 is a Pokémon item. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with dark thoughts. This may also make the target flinch.
Tr59 is a Pokémon item. The user slams a barrage of hard-shelled seeds down on the target from above.
Tr60 is a Pokémon item. The user slashes at the target by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors.
Tr61 is a Pokémon item. The user generates a damaging sound wave by vibration. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr62 is a Pokémon item. The target is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user’s gaping mouth.
Tr63 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks with a ray of light that sparkles as if it were made of gemstones.
Tr64 is a Pokémon item. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr65 is a Pokémon item. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr66 is a Pokémon item. The user tucks in its wings and charges from a low altitude. This also damages the user quite a lot.
Tr67 is a Pokémon item. The user makes the ground under the target erupt with power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr68 is a Pokémon item. The user stimulates its brain by thinking bad thoughts. This sharply raises the user’s Sp. Atk stat.
Tr69 is a Pokémon item. The user focuses its willpower to its head and attacks the target. This may also make the target flinch.
Tr70 is a Pokémon item. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it all at once. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Tr71 is a Pokémon item. The user whips up a storm of leaves around the target. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat.
Tr72 is a Pokémon item. The user violently whirls its vines, tentacles, or the like to harshly lash the target.
Tr73 is a Pokémon item. The user shoots filthy garbage at the target to attack. This may also poison the target.
Tr74 is a Pokémon item. The user slams the target with its steel-hard head. This may also make the target flinch.
Tr75 is a Pokémon item. The user stabs the target from below with sharpened stones. Critical hits land more easily.
Tr76 is a Pokémon item. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the opposing team. The trap hurts opposing Pokémon that switch into battle.
Tr77 is a Pokémon item. The user snares the target with grass and trips it. The heavier the target, the greater the move’s power.
Tr78 is a Pokémon item. The user strikes everything around it by swamping the area with a giant sludge wave. This may also poison those hit.
Tr79 is a Pokémon item. The user slams into the target with its heavy body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move’s power.
Tr80 is a Pokémon item. The user hurls an electric orb at the target. The faster the user is than the target, the greater the move’s power.
Tr81 is a Pokémon item. The user turns the target’s power against it. The higher the target’s Attack stat, the greater the damage it deals.
Tr82 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks the target with stored power. The more the user’s stats are raised, the greater the move’s power.
Tr83 is a Pokémon item. The user teleports using a strange power and switches places with one of its allies.
Tr84 is a Pokémon item. The user shoots boiling hot water at its target. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Tr85 is a Pokémon item. The user is roused, and its Attack and Sp. Atk stats increase.
Tr86 is a Pokémon item. The user shrouds itself in electricity and smashes into its target. This also damages the user a little.
Tr87 is a Pokémon item. The user crashes into its target while rotating its body like a drill. Critical hits land more easily.
Tr88 is a Pokémon item. The user slams its target with its flame-covered body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move’s power.
Tr89 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks by wrapping its opponent in a fierce wind that flies up into the sky. This may also confuse the target.
Tr90 is a Pokémon item. The user plays rough with the target and attacks it. This may also lower the target’s Attack stat.
Tr91 is a Pokémon item. Opposing Pokémon are drenched in an odd poisonous liquid. This lowers the Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats of a poisoned target.
Tr92 is a Pokémon item. The user damages opposing Pokémon by emitting a powerful flash.
Tr93 is a Pokémon item. The user swings both arms and hits the target. The target’s stat changes don’t affect this attack’s damage.
Tr94 is a Pokémon item. The user fiercely attacks the target using its entire body.
Tr95 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks the target’s throat, and the resultant suffering prevents the target from using moves that emit sound for two turns.
Tr96 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks the enemy with a pollen puff that explodes. If the target is an ally, it gives the ally a pollen puff that restores its HP instead.
Tr97 is a Pokémon item. The user bites the target with its psychic capabilities. This can also destroy Light Screen and Reflect.
Tr98 is a Pokémon item. The user slams into the target using a full-force blast of water. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat.
Tr99 is a Pokémon item. The user attacks by slamming its body into the target. The higher the user’s Defense, the more damage it can inflict on the target.
Tm00 is a Pokémon item. The target is slugged by a punch thrown with muscle-packed power.
Lonely Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Attack will grow more easily, but its Defense will grow more slowly.
Adamant Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Attack will grow more easily, but its Sp. Atk will grow more slowly.
Naughty Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Attack will grow more easily, but its Sp. Def will grow more slowly.
Brave Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Attack will grow more easily, but its Speed will grow more slowly.
Bold Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Defense will grow more easily, but its Attack will grow more slowly.
Impish Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Defense will grow more easily, but its Sp. Atk will grow more slowly.
Lax Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Defense will grow more easily, but its Sp. Def will grow more slowly.
Relaxed Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Defense will grow more easily, but its Speed will grow more slowly.
Modest Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Atk will grow more easily, but its Attack will grow more slowly.
Mild Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Atk will grow more easily, but its Defense will grow more slowly.
Rash Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Atk will grow more easily, but its Sp. Def will grow more slowly.
Quiet Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Atk will grow more easily, but its Speed will grow more slowly.
Calm Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Def will grow more easily, but its Attack will grow more slowly.
Gentle Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Def will grow more easily, but its Defense will grow more slowly.
Careful Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Def will grow more easily, but its Sp. Atk will grow more slowly.
Sassy Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Sp. Def will grow more easily, but its Speed will grow more slowly.
Timid Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Speed will grow more easily, but its Attack will grow more slowly.
Hasty Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Speed will grow more easily, but its Defense will grow more slowly.
Jolly Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Speed will grow more easily, but its Sp. Atk will grow more slowly.
Naive Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, its Speed will grow more easily, but its Sp. Def will grow more slowly.
Serious Mint is a Pokémon item. When a Pokémon smells this mint, all of its stats will grow at an equal rate.
Wishing Piece is a Pokémon item. Throw one into a Pokémon Den to attract a wild Dynamax Pokémon.
Cracked Pot is a Pokémon item. A peculiar teapot that can make a certain species of Pokémon evolve. It may be cracked, but tea poured from it is delicious.
Chipped Pot is a Pokémon item. A peculiar teapot that can make a certain species of Pokémon evolve. It may be chipped, but tea poured from it is delicious.
Hi Tech Earbuds is a Pokémon item. Strange earbuds that allow you to freely control the volume of various sounds.
Fruit Bunch is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The syrupy fruits give off a strong tropical feel.
Moomoo Cheese is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Melted cheese can really give a curry some richness.
Spice Mix is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. There are over fifty spices contained within this ingredient’s hot flavor.
Fresh Cream is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Add some whipped cream to a spicy curry to give it some sweetness.
Packaged Curry is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. Using packaged curry helps make sure there are no slipups when cooking.
Coconut Milk is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. The refined sweetness of this coconut milk makes it quite popular.
Instant Noodles is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. It has a junk-food sort of taste, but it goes well with curry.
Precooked Burger is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. If you’re unsure about what to cook, you can’t go wrong with some burger.
Gigantamix is a Pokémon item. One of the many ingredients that can be used for cooking at your camp. A mysterious spice. Even a tiny sprinkle is sure to make a curry gigantic.
Wishing Chip is a Pokémon item. Toss a number of them into a Pokémon Den for the chance to attract a wild Dynamax Pokémon.
Rotom Bike  Water Mode is a Pokémon item. This bike can be combined with the Pokémon Rotom to not only do a turbo boost but also run on the water.
Catching Charm is a Pokémon item. Holding it is said to increase the chance of getting a critical catch. Curiously, the charm doesn’t shake much.
Old Letter is a Pokémon item. A letter entrusted to you by a girl, to be delivered to a boy. Strangely, it looks old to you.
Band Autograph is a Pokémon item. It’s signed by all members of the Galar region’s most charismatic band, the Maximizers.
Sonias Book is a Pokémon item. Professor Sonia’s published writings. Her new discoveries about the Galar region’s legends are recorded in this enjoyable read.
Rotom Catalog is a Pokémon item. A catalog of devices that Rotom like. Use the catalog to have Rotom hop in and out of the various devices listed within.
Dynamax Crystal And458 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal And15 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal And337 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal And603 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal And390 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr6879 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr6859 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr6913 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7348 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7121 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr6746 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7194 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7337 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7343 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr6812 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7116 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7264 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sgr7597 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Del7882 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Del7906 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Del7852 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Psc596 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Psc361 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Psc510 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Psc437 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Psc8773 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lep1865 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lep1829 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5340 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5506 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5435 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5602 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5733 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5235 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Boo5351 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Hya3748 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Hya3903 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Hya3418 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Hya3482 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Hya3845 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1084 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri472 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1666 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri897 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1231 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri874 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1298 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1325 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri984 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1464 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri1393 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Eri850 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1409 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1457 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1165 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1791 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1910 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1346 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1373 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tau1412 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2491 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2693 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2294 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2827 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2282 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2618 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2657 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cma2646 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4905 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4301 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma5191 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma5054 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4295 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4660 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4554 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4069 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma3569 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma3323 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4033 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4377 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4375 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma4518 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Uma3594 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir5056 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir4825 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir4932 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir4540 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir4689 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir5338 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir4910 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir5315 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir5359 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir5409 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vir5107 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ari617 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ari553 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ari546 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ari951 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1713 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori2061 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1790 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1903 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1948 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori2004 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1852 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1879 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1899 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ori1543 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas21 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas168 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas403 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas153 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas542 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas219 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cas265 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3572 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3208 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3461 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3449 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3429 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3627 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3268 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cnc3249 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Com4968 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Crv4757 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Crv4623 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Crv4662 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Crv4786 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur1708 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur2088 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur1605 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur2095 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur1577 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur1641 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aur1612 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Pav7790 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cet911 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cet681 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cet188 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cet539 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cet804 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cep8974 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cep8162 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cep8238 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cep8417 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cen5267 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cen5288 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cen551 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cen5459 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cen5460 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cmi2943 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cmi2845 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Equ8131 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vul7405 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Umi424 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Umi5563 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Umi5735 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Umi6789 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Crt4287 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lyr7001 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lyr7178 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lyr7106 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lyr7298 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ara6585 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6134 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6527 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6553 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco5953 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco5984 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6508 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6084 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco5944 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6630 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6027 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6247 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6252 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco5928 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6241 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sco6165 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tri544 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo3982 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo4534 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo4357 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo4057 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo4359 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo4031 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo3852 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo3905 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Leo3773 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gru8425 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gru8636 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gru8353 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lib5685 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lib5531 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lib5787 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Lib5603 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Pup3165 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Pup3185 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Pup3045 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cyg7924 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cyg7417 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cyg7796 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cyg8301 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cyg7949 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cyg7528 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oct7228 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Col1956 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Col2040 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Col2177 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2990 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2891 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2421 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2473 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2216 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2777 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2650 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2286 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2484 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Gem2930 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8775 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8781 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg39 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8308 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8650 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8634 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8684 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8450 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8880 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Peg8905 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oph6556 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oph6378 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oph6603 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oph6149 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oph6056 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Oph6075 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ser5854 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ser7141 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Ser5879 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Her6406 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Her6148 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Her6410 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Her6526 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Her6117 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Her6008 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Per936 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Per1017 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Per1131 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Per1228 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Per834 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Per941 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Phe99 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Phe338 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vel3634 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vel3485 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Vel3734 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8232 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8414 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8709 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8518 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr7950 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8499 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8610 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aqr8264 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cru4853 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cru4730 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cru4763 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cru4700 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cru4656 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Psa8728 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Tra6217 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cap7776 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cap7754 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cap8278 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cap8322 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cap7773 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Sge7479 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Car2326 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Car3685 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Car3307 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Car3699 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra5744 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra5291 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6705 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6536 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra7310 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6688 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra4434 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6370 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra7462 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6396 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6132 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Dra6636 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cvn4915 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cvn4785 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Cvn4846 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aql7595 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aql7557 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aql7525 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aql7602 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Dynamax Crystal Aql7235 is a Pokémon item. An item that causes [VAR (0000)] to appear from the Watchtower Lair in the Wild Area until the end of the day.
Max Honey is a Pokémon item. Honey that Dynamax Vespiquen produces. Adding this honey to Max Soup makes the taste very smooth. It also has the same effect as a Max Revive.
Max Mushrooms is a Pokémon item. Mushrooms that have the power of changing Dynamax forms. They boost all stats of a Pokémon during battle.
Galarica Twig is a Pokémon item. A twig from a species of tree called Galarica that grows in certain areas around the Galar region. It’s a material for an accessory for a certain Pokémon.
Galarica Cuff is a Pokémon item. A cuff made from woven-together Galarica Twigs. Giving it to Galarian Slowpoke makes the Pokémon very happy.
Style Card is a Pokémon item. A card that increases the selection in boutiques and hair salons.
Armor Pass is a Pokémon item. A pass to go to the Isle of Armor. Show it to the rail staff at Wedgehurst Station.
Rotom Bike  Sparkling White is a Pokémon item. This bike can do a turbo boost and run on the water using Rotom’s power. It’s a sparkling white that shines brilliantly.
Rotom Bike  Glistening Black is a Pokémon item. This bike can do a turbo boost and run on the water using Rotom’s power. It’s a glistening black that shines reddish-black.
Exp Charm is a Pokémon item. A charm that increases the Exp. Points that Pokémon can get. A machine-like object is inside the charm.
Armorite Ore is a Pokémon item. Rare ore that can be obtained on the Isle of Armor. Something good will happen if you give it to a collector on the Isle of Armor.
Mark Charm is a Pokémon item. A mysterious and unique charm that increases the chance of finding a Pokémon with a mark.
Reins Of Unity  Merge is a Pokémon item. Reins that people presented to the king. They enhance Calyrex’s power over bountiful harvests and unite Calyrex with its beloved steed.
Reins Of Unity  Split is a Pokémon item. Reins that people presented to the king. They enable those who are connected to communicate with each other. The reins separate Calyrex and its beloved steed.
Galarica Wreath is a Pokémon item. A wreath made from woven-together Galarica Twigs. Placing it on the head of a Galarian Slowpoke makes the Pokémon very happy.
Legendary Clue 1 is a Pokémon item. A clue about the King of Bountiful Harvests. It’s written by Peony, and an old photo is attached to it.
Legendary Clue 2 is a Pokémon item. A clue about the legend of giants. It’s written by Peony and has unique drawings.
Legendary Clue 3 is a Pokémon item. A clue about the legend of bird Pokémon. It’s written by Peony and has a unique drawing.
Legendary Clue Question is a Pokémon item. A mysterious clue that Peony seems to have dropped. There’s a photo attached to it showing a shining hole opening above the Max Lair.
Crown Pass is a Pokémon item. A pass to go to the Crown Tundra. Show it to the rail staff at Wedgehurst Station.
Wooden Crown is a Pokémon item. A mysterious object made of wood. Part of it seems to be chipped. Maybe it’s meant to be part of something.
Radiant Petal is a Pokémon item. A single petal that the King of Bountiful Harvests gave you. It radiates faint light.
White Mane Hair is a Pokémon item. Mane hair that belonged to the King of Bountiful Harvests’ beloved steed, Glastrier. The hair is strong and very flexible.
Black Mane Hair is a Pokémon item. Mane hair that belonged to the King of Bountiful Harvests’ beloved steed, Spectrier. The hair is very smooth to the touch.
Iceroot Carrot is a Pokémon item. Produce that the King of Bountiful Harvests’ beloved steed likes to eat. It grew in a field covered in snow.
Shaderoot Carrot is a Pokémon item. Produce that the King of Bountiful Harvests’ beloved steed likes to eat. It grew in a gloomy field.
Dynite Ore is a Pokémon item. Mysterious ore that can be obtained in the Max Lair. Something good will happen if you give it to a collector in the Crown Tundra.
Carrot Seeds is a Pokémon item. Seeds to plant in a field. The kind of carrot you’ll get is determined by which field you plant the seeds in.
Ability Patch is a Pokémon item. A patch that allows a Pokémon with a regular Ability to have a rare Ability.
Reins Of Unity is a Pokémon item. Cords that shine when you hold them up to the light. The people of old times presented these to the King of Bountiful Harvests to express their gratitude.
Linking Cord is a Pokémon item. The Linking Cord triggers the evolution of certain Pokémon (all of which can alternatively evolve when traded) upon use. This consumes the Linking Cord.
Laheavy Ball is a Pokémon item. Doesn't fly far, but is more effective if the Pokémon hasn't noticed the player.
Laleaden Ball is a Pokémon item. Upgraded version of the Heavy Ball. Doesn't fly far, but is more effective if the Pokémon hasn't noticed the player.
Lagigaton Ball is a Pokémon item. Upgraded version of the Leaden Ball. Doesn't fly far, but is more effective if the Pokémon hasn't noticed the player.
Lafeather Ball is a Pokémon item. Can be thrown further than a regular Poké Ball. Is more effective for catching Pokémon that fly high in the air.
Lawing Ball is a Pokémon item. Can be thrown further than a Feather Ball. Is more effective for catching Pokémon that fly high in the air.
Lajet Ball is a Pokémon item. Can be thrown further than a Wing Ball. Is more effective for catching Pokémon that fly high in the air.
