Pound is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Pounds with fore­ legs or tail. Pounds the foe with forelegs or tail. A physical attack delivered with a long tail or a foreleg, etc. The foe is physically pounded with a long tail or a foreleg, etc. The target is physically pounded with a long tail or a foreleg, etc. The target is physically pounded with a long tail, a foreleg, or the like.
Karate Chop is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a high criti­ cal hit ratio. A chopping attack with a high critical-hit ratio. The foe is attacked with a sharp chop. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The target is attacked with a sharp chop. Critical hits land more easily. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Double Slap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Repeatedly slaps 2-5 times. Repeatedly slaps the foe 2 to 5 times. The foe is slapped repeatedly, back and forth, two to five times. The foe is slapped repeatedly, back and forth, two to five times in a row. The target is slapped repeatedly, back and forth, two to five times in a row. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Comet Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Repeatedly punches 2-5 times. Repeatedly punches the foe 2 to 5 times. The foe is hit with a flurry of punches that strike two to five times. The foe is hit with a flurry of punches that strike two to five times in a row. The target is hit with a flurry of punches that strike two to five times in a row. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Mega Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A powerful punch thrown very hard. A strong punch thrown with incredible power. The foe is slugged by a punch thrown with muscle-packed power. The target is slugged by a punch thrown with muscle-packed power.
Pay Day is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. After the battle ends, the winner receives five times the user’s level in extra money for each time this move was used. Throws coins. Gets them back later. Throws coins at the foe. Money is recovered after. Numerous coins are hurled at the foe. Money is earned after battle. Numerous coins are hurled at the foe to inflict damage. Money is earned after battle. Numerous coins are hurled at the target to inflict damage. Money is earned after the battle. Coins are hurled at the target to inflict damage. Money is earned after the battle.
Fire Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. A fiery punch. May cause a burn. A fiery punch that may burn the foe. The foe is punched with a fiery fist. It may leave the foe with a burn. The foe is punched with a fiery fist. It may leave the target with a burn. The target is punched with a fiery fist. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is punched with a fiery fist. This may also leave the target with a burn. The target is attacked with a fiery punch. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Ice Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to freeze the target. An icy punch. May cause freezing. An icy punch that may freeze the foe. The foe is punched with an icy fist. It may leave the foe frozen. The foe is punched with an icy fist. It may leave the target frozen. The target is punched with an icy fist. It may also leave the target frozen. The target is punched with an icy fist. This may also leave the target frozen. The target is punched with an icy fist. This may also leave the target with frostbite. The target is attacked with an icy punch. This may also leave the target frozen.
Thunder Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An electric punch. It may paralyze. An electrified punch that may paralyze the foe. The foe is punched with an electrified fist. It may leave the foe paralyzed. The foe is punched with an electrified fist. It may leave the target with paralysis. The target is punched with an electrified fist. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The target is punched with an electrified fist. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The target is attacked with an electrified punch. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Scratch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Scratches with sharp claws. Scratches the foe with sharp claws. Hard, pointed, and sharp claws rake the foe. Hard, pointed, and sharp claws rake the foe to inflict damage. Hard, pointed, and sharp claws rake the target to inflict damage. Hard, pointed, sharp claws rake the target to inflict damage.
Vice Grip is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Grips with power­ ful pincers. Grips the foe with large and powerful pincers. Huge, impressive pincers grip and squeeze the foe. The target is gripped and squeezed from both sides to inflict damage.
Guillotine is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the target’s max HP. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This move’s accuracy is 30% plus 1% for each level the user is higher than the target. If the user is a lower level than the target, this move will fail. Because this move inflicts a specific and finite amount of damage, endure still prevents the target from fainting. The effects of lock on, mind reader, and no guard still apply, as long as the user is equal or higher level than the target. However, they will not give this move a chance to break through detect or protect. A one-hit KO, pincer attack. A powerful pincer attack that may cause fainting. A vicious tearing attack with pincers. The foe will faint if it hits. A vicious, tearing attack with pincers. The foe will faint instantly if this attack hits. A vicious, tearing attack with big pincers. The target will faint instantly if this attack hits. A vicious, tearing attack with big pincers. The target faints instantly if this attack hits. A vicious tearing attack with big pincers. The target faints instantly if this attack hits.
Razor Wind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. User charges for one turn before attacking. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. 1st turn: Prepare 2nd turn: Attack A 2-turn move that strikes the foe on the 2nd turn. Blades of wind hit the foe on the 2nd turn. It has a high critical-hit ratio. A two-turn attack. Blades of wind hit the foe on the second turn. It has a high critical-hit ratio. A two-turn attack. Blades of wind hit opposing Pokémon on the second turn. Critical hits land more easily. In this two-turn attack, blades of wind hit opposing Pokémon on the second turn. Critical hits land more easily. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Swords Dance is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack by two stages. A dance that in­ creases ATTACK. A fighting dance that sharply raises ATTACK. A frenetic dance of fighting. It sharply raises the ATTACK stat. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. It sharply raises the user’s Attack stat. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. This sharply raises the user’s Attack stat. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. This raises the user’s offensive stats. A frenetic dance to uplift the fighting spirit. This sharply boosts the user's Attack stat.
Cut is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Cuts using claws, scythes, etc. Cuts the foe with sharp scythes, claws, etc. A basic attack. It can be used to cut down thin trees and grass. The foe is cut with a scythe or a claw. It can also be used to cut down thin trees. The target is cut with a scythe or a claw. It can also be used to cut down thin trees. The target is cut with a scythe or claw. This can also be used to cut down thin trees. The target is cut with a scythe or claw.
Gust is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is under the effect of bounce, fly, or sky drop, this move will hit with double power. Whips up a strong gust of wind. Strikes the foe with a gust of wind whipped up by wings. A gust of wind is whipped up by wings and launched at the foe to inflict damage. A gust of wind is whipped up by wings and launched at the target to inflict damage.
Wing Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Strikes the target with wings. Strikes the foe with wings spread wide. The foe is struck with large, imposing wings spread wide. The foe is struck with large, imposing wings spread wide to inflict damage. The target is struck with large, imposing wings spread wide to inflict damage.
Whirlwind is a Pokémon move. Switches the target out for another of its trainer’s Pokémon selected at random. Wild battles end immediately. Doesn’t affect Pokémon with suction cups or under the effect of ingrain. Blows away the foe & ends battle. Blows away the foe with wind and ends the battle. The foe is made to switch out with an ally. In the wild, the battle ends. The foe is blown away, to be replaced by another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is blown away, to be replaced by another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is blown away and switched. In the wild, a battle against a single Pokémon ends. The target is blown away, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon. The target is blown away, and a different Pokémon is dragged out.
Fly is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User flies high into the air for one turn, becoming immune to attack, and hits on the second turn. During the immune turn, gust, hurricane, sky uppercut, smack down, thunder, twister, and whirlwind still hit the user normally. gust and twister also have double power against the user. The damage from hail and sandstorm still applies during the immune turn. The user may be hit during its immune turn if under the effect of lock on, mind reader, or no guard. This move cannot be used while gravity is in effect. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. 1st turn: Fly 2nd turn: Attack Flies up on the first turn, then strikes the next turn. A 2-turn move that hits on the 2nd turn. Use it to fly to any known town. The user soars, then strikes on the second turn. It can also be used for flying to any familiar town. The user soars, then strikes its target on the second turn. It can also be used for flying to any familiar town. The user soars and then strikes its target on the next turn. This can also be used to fly to any familiar town. The user soars and then strikes its target on the next turn. The user flies up into the sky and then strikes its target on the next turn. The user flies up into the sky on the first turn, then attacks on the next turn.
Bind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. Binds the target for 2-5 turns. Binds and squeezes the foe for 2 to 5 turns. A long body or tentacles are used to bind the foe for two to five turns. A long body or tentacles are used to bind and squeeze the foe for two to five turns. Things such as long bodies or tentacles are used to bind and squeeze the target for four to five turns. A long body, tentacles, or the like are used to bind and squeeze the target for four to five turns.
Slam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Slams the foe with a tail, vine, etc. Slams the foe with a long tail, vine, etc. The foe is struck with a long tail, vines, etc. The foe is slammed with a long tail, vines, etc., to inflict damage. The target is slammed with a long tail, vines, etc., to inflict damage. The target is slammed with a long tail, vines, or the like to inflict damage.
Vine Whip is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Whips the foe with slender vines. Strikes the foe with slender, whiplike vines. The foe is struck with slender, whip­ like vines. The foe is struck with slender, whiplike vines to inflict damage. The target is struck with slender, whiplike vines to inflict damage.
Stomp is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. Power is doubled against Pokémon that have used minimize since entering the field. An attack that may cause flinching. Stomps the enemy with a big foot. May cause flinching. The foe is stomped with a big foot. It may make the foe flinch. The foe is stomped with a big foot. It may also make the target flinch. The target is stomped with a big foot. It may also make the target flinch. The target is stomped with a big foot. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks by stomping on the target with a big foot. This may also make the target flinch.
Double Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn. A double kicking attack. A double-kicking attack that strikes the foe twice. Two legs are used to quickly kick the foe twice in one turn. The foe is quickly kicked twice in succession using both feet. The target is quickly kicked twice in succession using both feet. The user attacks by kicking the target twice in a row using two feet.
Mega Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The target is attacked by a kick launched with muscle-packed power. A powerful kicking attack. An extremely powerful kick with intense force. The foe is attacked by a kick fired with muscle-packed power. The foe is attacked by a kick launched with muscle-packed power.
Jump Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If this move misses, is blocked by protect or detect, or has no effect, the user takes damage equal to half of its max HP rounded down. This move cannot be used while gravity is in effect. May miss, damaging the user. A strong jumping kick. May miss and hurt the kicker. The user jumps up high, then kicks. If it misses, the user hurts itself. The user jumps up high, then strikes with a kick. If the kick misses, the user hurts itself. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Rolling Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. A fast, spinning kick. A fast kick delivered from a rapid spin. A quick kick from a rolling spin. It may make the foe flinch. The user cuts a quick spin and lashes out with a sharp kick. The user lashes out with a quick, spinning kick. It may also make the target flinch. The user lashes out with a quick, spinning kick. This may also make the target flinch. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sand Attack is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s accuracy by one stage. Reduces accuracy by throwing sand. Reduces the foe’s accuracy by hurling sand in its face. A lot of sand is hurled in the foe’s face, reducing its accuracy. Sand is hurled in the foe’s face, reducing its accuracy. Sand is hurled in the target’s face, reducing its accuracy. Sand is hurled in the target’s face, reducing the target’s accuracy. Sand is hurled in the target's face, reducing the target's accuracy. Sand is hurled in the target's face, lowering the target's accuracy.
Headbutt is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack that may make foe flinch. A ramming attack that may cause flinching. The user sticks its head out and rams. It may make the foe flinch. The user sticks its head out and rams straight forward. It may make the foe flinch. The user attacks with its head. It may make the foe flinch. To find Pokémon, hit trees. The user sticks out its head and attacks by charging straight into the target. It may also make the target flinch. The user sticks out its head and attacks by charging straight into the target. This may also make the target flinch.
Horn Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. An attack using a horn to jab. Jabs the foe with sharp horns. The foe is jabbed with a sharply pointed horn to inflict damage. The target is jabbed with a sharply pointed horn to inflict damage.
Fury Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Jabs the target 2-5 times. Jabs the foe 2 to 5 times with sharp horns, etc. The foe is jabbed repeatedly with a horn or beak two to five times. The foe is jabbed repeatedly with a horn or beak two to five times in a row. The target is jabbed repeatedly with a horn or beak two to five times in a row. The user attacks by jabbing the target with a horn, a beak, or the like. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Horn Drill is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the target’s max HP. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This move’s accuracy is 30% plus 1% for each level the user is higher than the target. If the user is a lower level than the target, this move will fail. Because this move inflicts a specific and finite amount of damage, endure still prevents the target from fainting. The effects of lock on, mind reader, and no guard still apply, as long as the user is equal or higher level than the target. However, they will not give this move a chance to break through detect or protect. A one-hit KO, drill attack. A one-hit KO attack that uses a horn like a drill. The horn is rotated like a drill to ram. The foe will faint if it hits. The foe is stabbed with a horn rotating like a drill. The foe instantly faints if it hits. The user stabs the target with a horn that rotates like a drill. If it hits, the target faints instantly. The user stabs the target with a horn that rotates like a drill. The target faints instantly if this attack hits.
Tackle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A full-body charge attack. Charges the foe with a full- body tackle. A physical attack in which the user charges, full body, into the foe. A physical attack in which the user charges and slams into the foe with its whole body. A physical attack in which the user charges and slams into the target with its whole body.
Body Slam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An attack that may cause paralysis. A full-body slam that may cause paralysis. The user drops its full body on the foe. It may leave the foe paralyzed. The user drops onto the foe with its full body weight. It may leave the foe paralyzed. The user drops onto the target with its full body weight. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The user drops onto the target with its full body weight. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user attacks by dropping onto the target with its full body weight. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Wrap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. Squeezes the foe for 2-5 turns. Wraps and squeezes the foe 2 to 5 times with vines, etc. A long body or vines are used to wrap the foe for two to five turns. A long body or vines are used to wrap and squeeze the foe for two to five turns. A long body or vines are used to wrap and squeeze the target for four to five turns. A long body, vines, or the like are used to wrap and squeeze the target for four to five turns.
Take Down is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/4 the damage it inflicts in recoil. A tackle that also hurts the user. A reckless charge attack that also hurts the user. A reckless, full- body charge attack that also hurts the user a little. A reckless, full-body charge attack for slamming into the foe. It also damages the user a little. A reckless, full-body charge attack for slamming into the target. It also damages the user a little. A reckless, full-body charge attack for slamming into the target. This also damages the user a little. A reckless full-body charge attack for slamming into the target. This also damages the user a little.
Thrash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User is forced to attack with this move for 2–3 turns,selected at random. After the last hit, the user becomes confused. safeguard does not protect against the confusion from this move. Works 2-3 turns and confuses user. A rampage of 2 to 3 turns that confuses the user. The user rampages about for two to three turns, then becomes confused. The user rampages and attacks for two to three turns. It then becomes confused, however. The user rampages and attacks for two to three turns. The user then becomes confused.
Double Edge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/3 the damage it inflicts in recoil. A tackle that also hurts the user. A life-risking tackle that also hurts the user. A reckless, life- risking tackle that also hurts the user a little. A reckless, life- risking tackle. It also damages the user by a fairly large amount, however. A reckless, life-risking tackle. It also damages the user by a fairly large amount, however. A reckless, life-risking tackle. This also damages the user quite a lot. A reckless, life-risking tackle in which the user rushes the target. This also damages the user quite a lot. A reckless, life-risking tackle in which the user rushes the target. This also damages the user. A reckless life-risking tackle in which the user rushes the target. This also damages the user quite a lot.
Tail Whip is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Defense by one stage. Lowers the foe's DEFENSE. Wags the tail to lower the foe’s DEFENSE. The user wags its tail cutely, making the foe lower its DEFENSE stat. The user wags its tail cutely, making the foe less wary. The target’s Defense stat is lowered. The user wags its tail cutely, making opposing Pokémon less wary and lowering their Defense stat. The user wags its tail cutely, making opposing Pokémon less wary and lowering their Defense stats. The user wags its tail cutely, making opposing Pokémon less wary. This lowers their Defense stats.
Poison Sting is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. An attack that may poison the target. A toxic attack with barbs, etc., that may poison. The foe is stabbed with a toxic barb, etc. It may poison the foe. The foe is stabbed with a poisonous barb of some sort. It may also poison the target. The user stabs the target with a poisonous stinger. This may also poison the target. The user stabs the target with a poisonous stinger to inflict damage. This may also poison the target.
Twineedle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in the same turn. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. Jabs the foe twice using stingers. Stingers on the forelegs jab the foe twice. The foe is stabbed twice with foreleg stingers. It may poison the foe. The foe is stabbed twice by a pair of stingers. It may also poison the target. The user damages the target twice in succession by jabbing it with two spikes. It may also poison the target. The user damages the target twice in succession by jabbing it with two spikes. This may also poison the target. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Pin Missile is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Fires pins that strike 2-5 times. Sharp pins are fired to strike 2 to 5 times. Sharp pins are shot at the foe and hit two to five times at once. Sharp pins are shot at the foe in rapid succession. They hit two to five times in a row. Sharp spikes are shot at the target in rapid succession. They hit two to five times in a row. Sharp spikes are shot at the target. Spike splinters left behind by this attack continue to damage the target for several turns. The user attacks by shooting sharp spikes at the target. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Leer is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Defense by one stage. Reduces the foe's DEFENSE. Frightens the foe with a leer to lower DEFENSE. The foe is given an intimidating look that lowers its DEFENSE stat. The foe is given an intimidating leer with sharp eyes. The target’s Defense stat is reduced. The opposing team gains an intimidating leer with sharp eyes. The opposing team’s Defense stats are reduced. The user gains an intimidating leer with sharp eyes. The opposing team’s Defense stats are reduced. The user gives opposing Pokémon an intimidating leer that lowers the Defense stat. The user gives opposing Pokémon an intimidating leer that lowers their Defense stats.
Bite is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack that may cause flinching. Bites with vicious fangs. May cause flinching. The user bites with vicious fangs. It may make the foe flinch. The foe is bitten with viciously sharp fangs. It may make the target flinch. The target is bitten with viciously sharp fangs. It may make the target flinch. The target is bitten with viciously sharp fangs. This may also make the target flinch. The user bites the target with viciously sharp fangs to inflict damage.
Growl is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. Reduces the foe's ATTACK. Growls cutely to reduce the foe’s ATTACK. The user growls in a cute way, making the foe lower its ATTACK stat. The user growls in an endearing way, making the foe less wary. The target’s Attack stat is lowered. The user growls in an endearing way, making the opposing team less wary. The foes’ Attack stats are lowered. The user growls in an endearing way, making opposing Pokémon less wary. This lowers their Attack stats. The user growls in an endearing way, making opposing Pokémon less wary. This lowers their Attack stat.
Roar is a Pokémon move. Switches the target out for another of its trainer’s Pokémon selected at random. Wild battles end immediately. Doesn’t affect Pokémon with suction cups or under the effect of ingrain. Scares wild foes to end battle. Makes the foe flee to end the battle. The foe is made to switch out with an ally. In the wild, the battle ends. The foe is scared off, to be replaced by another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is scared off and replaced by another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is scared off and switched. In the wild, a battle against a single Pokémon ends. The target is scared off, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon. The target is scared off, and a different Pokémon is dragged out.
Sing is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. May cause the foe to fall asleep. A soothing song lulls the foe into a deep slumber. A soothing song in a calming voice lulls the foe into a deep slumber. A soothing lullaby is sung in a calming voice that puts the foe into a deep slumber. A soothing lullaby is sung in a calming voice that puts the target into a deep slumber. A soothing lullaby is sung in a beautiful voice that puts the target to sleep.
Supersonic is a Pokémon move. Confuses the target. Sound waves that cause confusion. Emits bizarre sound waves that may confuse the foe. The user generates odd sound waves. It may confuse the foe. The user generates odd sound waves from its body. It may confuse the target. The user generates odd sound waves from its body that confuse the target.
Sonic Boom is a Pokémon move. Inflicts exactly 20 damage. Always inflicts 20HP damage. Launches shock waves that always inflict 20 HP damage. The foe is hit with a shock wave that always inflicts 20- HP damage. The foe is hit with a destructive shock wave that always inflicts 20 HP damage. The target is hit with a destructive shock wave that always inflicts 20 HP damage. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Disable is a Pokémon move. Disables the target’s last used move, preventing its use for 4–7 turns, selected at random, or until the target leaves the field. If the target hasn’t used a move since entering the field, if it tried to use a move this turn and failed, if its last used move has 0 PP remaining, or if it already has a move disabled, this move will fail. Disables the foe's most recent move. Psychically disables one of the foe’s moves. For a few turns, it prevents the foe from using the move it last used. For several turns, this move prevents the foe from using the move it last used. For four turns, this move prevents the target from using the move it last used. For four turns, the target will be unable to use whichever move it last used.
Acid is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. An attack that may lower DEFENSE. Sprays a hide-melting acid. May lower DEFENSE. The foe is sprayed with a harsh, hide- melting acid that may lower DEFENSE. The foe is attacked with a spray of harsh acid. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The opposing team is attacked with a spray of harsh acid. The acid may also lower the targets’ Sp. Def stats. The opposing Pokémon are attacked with a spray of harsh acid. This may also lower their Sp. Def stats. The opposing Pokémon are attacked with a spray of harsh acid. This may also lower their Sp. Def stat. Opposing Pokémon are attacked with a spray of harsh acid. This may also lower their Sp. Def stats.
Ember is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The foe is attacked with small flames. The foe may suffer a burn. An attack that may inflict a burn. A weak fire attack that may inflict a burn. The foe is attacked with small flames. The target may also be left with a burn. The target is attacked with small flames. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is attacked with small flames. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Flamethrower is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. An attack that may inflict a burn. A powerful fire attack that may inflict a burn. The foe is scorched with intense flames. The foe may suffer a burn. The foe is scorched with an intense blast of fire. The target may also be left with a burn. The target is scorched with an intense blast of fire. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is scorched with an intense blast of fire. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Mist is a Pokémon move. Pokémon on the user’s side of the field are immune to stat-lowering effects for five turns. guard swap, heart swap, and power swap may still be used. defog used by an opponent will end this effect. Prevents stat reduction. Creates a mist that stops reduction of abilities. The ally party is protected by a mist that prevents stat reductions. The user cloaks its body with a white mist that prevents any of its stats from being cut for five turns. The user cloaks itself and its allies in a white mist that prevents any of their stats from being lowered for five turns.
Water Gun is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Squirts water to attack. Squirts water to attack the foe. The foe is struck with a lot of water expelled forcibly from the mouth. The foe is blasted with a forceful shot of water. The target is blasted with a forceful shot of water.
Hydro Pump is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A powerful water- type attack. Blasts water at high power to strike the foe. A high volume of water is blasted at the foe under great pressure. The foe is blasted by a huge volume of water launched under great pressure. The target is blasted by a huge volume of water launched under great pressure.
Surf is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is in the first turn of dive, this move will hit with double power. A strong water- type attack. Creates a huge wave, then crashes it down on the foe. A big wave crashes down on the foe. Can also be used for crossing water. It swamps the entire battlefield with a giant wave. It can also be used for crossing water. It swamps the area around the user with a giant wave. It can also be used for crossing water. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave. This can also be used for crossing water. The user attacks everything around it by swamping its surroundings with a giant wave.
Ice Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to freeze the target. An attack that may freeze the foe. Blasts the foe with an icy beam that may freeze it. The foe is struck with an icy beam. It may freeze the foe solid. The foe is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. It may also freeze the target solid. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. It may also freeze the target solid. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. This may also leave the target frozen. The target is struck with an icy-cold beam of energy. This may also leave the target with frostbite.
Blizzard is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to freeze the target. During hail, this move has 100% accuracy. It also has a (100 - accuracy)% chance to break through the protection of protect and detect. An attack that may freeze the foe. Hits the foe with an icy storm that may freeze it. The foe is blasted with a blizzard. It may freeze the foe solid. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike the foe. It may also freeze the target solid. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike the opposing team. It may also freeze them solid. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike opposing Pokémon. This may also leave the opposing Pokémon frozen. A howling blizzard is summoned to strike the target. This may also leave the target with frostbite.
Psybeam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. An attack that may confuse the foe. Fires a peculiar ray that may confuse the foe. A peculiar ray is shot at the foe. It may leave the foe confused. The foe is attacked with a peculiar ray. It may also leave the target confused. The target is attacked with a peculiar ray. It may also cause confusion. The target is attacked with a peculiar ray. This may also leave the target confused. The target is attacked with a peculiar ray. This may also confuse the target.
Bubble Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. An attack that may lower SPEED. Forcefully sprays bubbles that may lower SPEED. A spray of bubbles strikes the foe. It may lower the foe’s SPEED stat. A spray of bubbles is forcefully ejected at the foe. It may also lower the target’s Speed stat. A spray of bubbles is forcefully ejected at the opposing team. It may also lower their Speed stats. A spray of bubbles is forcefully ejected at the target. This may also lower its Speed stat. A spray of bubbles is forcefully ejected at the target. This may also lower the target’s Speed stat. A spray of bubbles is forcefully ejected at the target. This may also lower the target's Speed stat.
Aurora Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Attack by one stage. An attack that may lower ATTACK. Fires a rainbow-colored beam that may lower ATTACK. A rainbow-colored attack beam. It may lower the foe’s ATTACK stat. The foe is hit with a rainbow-colored beam. It may also lower the target’s Attack stat. The target is hit with a rainbow-colored beam. This may also lower the target’s Attack stat. The target is hit with a rainbow-colored beam. This may also lower the target's Attack stat.
Hyper Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. 1st turn: Attack 2nd turn: Rest Powerful, but leaves the user immobile the next turn. A severely damaging attack that makes the user rest on the next turn. The foe is attacked with a powerful beam. The user must rest on the next turn to regain its energy. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user must rest on the next turn to regain its energy. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user can’t move on the next turn. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The target is attacked with a powerful beam. The user can't move on the next turn.
Peck is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Jabs the foe with a beak, etc. Attacks the foe with a jabbing beak, etc. The foe is jabbed with a sharply pointed beak or horn. The target is jabbed with a sharply pointed beak or horn. The target is jabbed with a sharply pointed beak or horn to inflict damage.
Drill Peck is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A strong, spin­ ning-peck attack. A corkscrewing attack with the beak acting as a drill. A corkscrewing attack with the sharp beak acting as a drill. A corkscrewing attack with a sharp beak acting as a drill. A corkscrewing attack that strikes the target with a sharp beak acting as a drill.
Submission is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/4 the damage it inflicts in recoil. An attack that al­ so hurts the user. A reckless body slam that also hurts the user. A reckless, full- body throw attack that also hurts the user a little. The user grabs the foe and recklessly dives for the ground. It also hurts the user slightly. The user grabs the target and recklessly dives for the ground. It also hurts the user slightly. The user grabs the target and recklessly dives for the ground. This also damages the user a little.
Low Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases with the target’s weight in kilograms, to a maximum of 120. Target’s weight | Power --------------- | ----: Up to 10kg | 20 Up to 25kg | 40 Up to 50kg | 60 Up to 100kg | 80 Up to 200kg | 100 Above 200kg | 120 An attack that may cause flinching. A kick that inflicts more damage on heavier foes. A low, tripping kick that inflicts more damage on heavier foes. A powerful low kick that makes the foe fall over. It inflicts greater damage on heavier foes. A powerful low kick that makes the target fall over. It inflicts greater damage on heavier targets. A powerful low kick that makes the target fall over. The heavier the target, the greater the move’s power. A powerful low kick that makes the target fall over. The heavier the target, the greater the move's power.
Counter is a Pokémon move. Targets the last opposing Pokémon to hit the user with a physical move this turn. Inflicts twice the damage that move did to the user. If there is no eligible target, this move will fail. Type immunity applies, but other type effects are ignored. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome. Returns a physical blow double. Retaliates any physical hit with double the power. A retaliation move that counters any physical hit with double the damage. A retaliation move that counters any physical attack, inflicting double the damage taken. A retaliatory attack that counters any physical move, inflicting double the damage taken.
Seismic Toss is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the user’s level. Type immunity applies, but other type effects are ignored. The user's level equals damage HP. Inflicts damage identical to the user’s level. A gravity-fed throw that causes damage matching the user’s level. The foe is thrown using the power of gravity. It inflicts damage equal to the user’s level. The target is thrown using the power of gravity. It inflicts damage equal to the user’s level. The target is thrown using the power of gravity. It inflicts damage equal to the user's level.
Strength is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A powerful physi­ cal attack. Builds enormous power, then slams the foe. The foe is slugged at maximum power. Can also be used to move boulders. The foe is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power. It can also be used to move boulders. The target is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power. It can also be used to move heavy boulders. The target is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power. This can also be used to move heavy boulders. The target is slugged with a punch thrown at maximum power.
Absorb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. Steals 1/2 of the damage inflicted. An attack that absorbs half the damage inflicted. An attack that absorbs half the damage it inflicted to restore HP. A nutrient-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user attacks by draining the target’s nutrients. Some of the damage dealt to the target is absorbed by the user to restore their own HP. A nutrient-draining attack. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Mega Drain is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. Steals 1/2 of the damage inflicted. An attack that absorbs half the damage inflicted. A tough attack that drains half the damage it inflicted to restore HP. A nutrient-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. A nutrient-draining attack. The user's HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. A nutrient-draining attack. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Leech Seed is a Pokémon move. Plants a seed on the target that drains 1/8 of its max HP at the end of every turn and heals the user for the amount taken. Has no effect on grass Pokémon. The seed remains until the target leaves the field. The user takes damage instead of being healed if the target has liquid ooze. rapid spin will remove this effect. This effect is passed on by baton pass. Steals HP from the foe on every turn. Plants a seed on the foe to steal HP on every turn. A seed is planted on the foe to steal some HP for the user on every turn. A seed is planted on the foe. It steals some HP from the foe to heal the user on every turn. A seed is planted on the target. It steals some HP from the target every turn.
Growth is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack and Special Attack by one stage each. During sunny day, raises both stats by two stages. Raises the SPCL. ATK rating. Forces the body to grow and heightens SP. ATK. The user’s body is forced to grow, raising the SP. ATK stat. The user’s body is forced to grow all at once. It raises the Sp. Atk stat. The user’s body grows all at once, raising the Attack and Sp. Atk stats. The user's body grows all at once, raising the Attack and Sp. Atk stats. The user's body grows all at once, boosting the Attack and Sp. Atk stats.
Razor Leaf is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. A sharp-edged leaf is launched to slash at the foe. It has a high critical-hit ratio. Has a high criti­ cal hit ratio. Cuts the enemy with leaves. High critical-hit ratio. The foe is hit with a cutting leaf. It has a high critical-hit ratio. Sharp-edged leaves are launched to slash at the foe. It has a high critical-hit ratio. Sharp-edged leaves are launched to slash at the opposing team. Critical hits land more easily. Sharp-edged leaves are launched to slash at the opposing Pokémon. Critical hits land more easily. Sharp-edged leaves are launched to slash at opposing Pokémon. Critical hits land more easily. Sharp-edged leaves are launched to slash at opposing Pokémon. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Solar Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User charges for one turn before attacking. During sunny day, the charge turn is skipped. During hail, rain dance, or sandstorm, power is halved. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. 1st turn: Prepare 2nd turn: Attack Absorbs light in one turn, then attacks next turn. A 2-turn move that blasts the foe with absorbed energy in the 2nd turn. A two-turn attack. The user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the second turn. A two-turn attack. The user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn. The user gathers light on the first turn, then blasts a bundled beam on the next turn.
Poison Powder is a Pokémon move. Poisons the target. A move that may poison the foe. Scatters a toxic powder that may poison the foe. A cloud of toxic dust is scattered. It may poison the foe. A cloud of poisonous dust is scattered on the foe. It may poison the target. The user scatters a cloud of poisonous dust on the target. It may poison the target. The user scatters a cloud of poisonous dust on the target. This may also poison the target. The user scatters a cloud of poisonous dust that poisons the target. The user scatters a cloud of toxic powder that poisons the target.
Stun Spore is a Pokémon move. Paralyzes the target. A move that may paralyze the foe. Scatters a powder that may paralyze the foe. Paralyzing dust is scattered wildly. It may paralyze the foe. The user scatters a cloud of paralyzing powder. It may paralyze the target. The user scatters a cloud of paralyzing powder. It may leave the target with paralysis. The user scatters a cloud of numbing powder that paralyzes the target.
Sleep Powder is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. May cause the foe to fall asleep. Scatters a powder that may cause the foe to sleep. A sleep-inducing dust is scattered in high volume around a foe. The user scatters a big cloud of sleep- inducing dust around the foe. The user scatters a big cloud of sleep-inducing dust around the target. The user scatters a cloud of sleep-inducing powder that makes the target drowsy. The user scatters a cloud of soporific dust that puts the target to sleep.
Petal Dance is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User is forced to attack with this move for 2–3 turns,selected at random. After the last hit, the user becomes confused. safeguard does not protect against the confusion from this move. Works 2-3 turns and confuses user. A rampage of 2 to 3 turns that confuses the user. The user attacks with petals for two to three turns, then gets confused. The user attacks by scattering petals for two to three turns. The user then becomes confused. The user attacks the target by scattering petals for two to three turns. The user then becomes confused. The user attacks the target by scattering petals, then becomes fixated on using this move.
String Shot is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Speed by two stages. A move that lowers the foe's SPEED. Binds the foe with string to reduce its SPEED. The foe is bound with strings shot from the mouth to reduce its SPEED. The foe is bound with silk blown from the user’s mouth. It reduces the target’s Speed stat. The targets are bound with silk blown from the user’s mouth. This silk reduces the targets’ Speed stat. The opposing Pokémon are bound with silk blown from the user’s mouth that harshly lowers the Speed stat. Opposing Pokémon are bound with silk blown from the user’s mouth that harshly lowers the Speed stat. Opposing Pokémon are bound with silk blown from the user's mouth that harshly lowers the Speed stat. The user blows silk from its mouth that binds opposing Pokémon and harshly lowers their Speed stats.
Dragon Rage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts exactly 40 damage. Always inflicts 40HP damage. Launches shock waves that always inflict 40 HP damage. The foe is hit with a shock wave that always inflicts 40- HP damage. The foe is stricken by a shock wave. This attack always inflicts 40 HP damage. This attack hits the target with a shock wave of pure rage. This attack always inflicts 40 HP damage. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Fire Spin is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. Traps foe in fire for 2-5 turns. Traps the foe in a ring of fire for 2 to 5 turns. The foe is trapped in an intense spiral of fire that rages two to five turns. The foe becomes trapped within a fierce vortex of fire that rages for two to five turns. The target becomes trapped within a fierce vortex of fire that rages for four to five turns. The user traps the target inside a fierce vortex of fire that inflicts damage for four to five turns.
Thunder Shock is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An electrical attack that may paralyze the foe. An attack that may cause paralysis. An electric shock attack that may also leave the foe paralyzed. A jolt of electricity is hurled at the foe to inflict damage. It may also leave the foe paralyzed. A jolt of electricity is hurled at the target to inflict damage. It may also leave the target with paralysis. A jolt of electricity crashes down on the target to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user attacks the target with a jolt of electricity. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Thunderbolt is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An attack that may cause paralysis. A strong electrical attack that may paralyze the foe. A strong electrical attack that may also leave the foe paralyzed. A strong electric blast is loosed at the foe. It may also leave the foe paralyzed. A strong electric blast is loosed at the target. It may also leave the target with paralysis. A strong electric blast crashes down on the target. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user attacks the target with a strong electric blast. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Thunder Wave is a Pokémon move. Paralyzes the target. A move that may cause paralysis. A weak jolt of electricity that paralyzes the foe. A weak electric shock that is sure to cause paralysis if it hits. A weak electric charge is launched at the foe. It causes paralysis if it hits. A weak electric charge is launched at the target. It causes paralysis if it hits. The user launches a weak jolt of electricity that paralyzes the target.
Thunder is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. During rain dance, this move has 100% accuracy. It also has a (100 - accuracy)% chance to break through the protection of protect and detect. During sunny day, this move has 50% accuracy. An attack that may cause paralysis. A lightning attack that may cause paralysis. A brutal lightning attack that may also leave the foe paralyzed. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the foe to inflict damage. It may also leave the target paralyzed. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the target to inflict damage. It may also leave the target with paralysis. A wicked thunderbolt is dropped on the target to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Rock Throw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drops rocks on the enemy. Throws small rocks to strike the foe. The foe is attacked with a shower of small, easily thrown rocks. The user picks up and throws a small rock at the foe to attack. The user picks up and throws a small rock at the target to attack. The user picks up and throws a small rock at the target to inflict damage.
Earthquake is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is in the first turn of dig, this move will hit with double power. Tough but useless vs. flying foes. A powerful quake, but has no effect on flying foes. An earthquake that strikes all POKéMON in battle excluding the user. The user sets off an earthquake that hits all the Pokémon in the battle. The user sets off an earthquake that strikes those around it. The user sets off an earthquake that strikes every Pokémon around it.
Fissure is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the target’s max HP. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This move’s accuracy is 30% plus 1% for each level the user is higher than the target. If the user is a lower level than the target, this move will fail. Because this move inflicts a specific and finite amount of damage, endure still prevents the target from fainting. The effects of lock on, mind reader, and no guard still apply, as long as the user is equal or higher level than the target. However, they will not give this move a chance to break through detect or protect. A ground-type, one-hit KO attack. A one-hit KO move that drops the foe in a fissure. The foe is dropped into a fissure. The foe faints if it hits. The user opens up a fissure in the ground and drops the foe in. The target instantly faints if it hits. The user opens up a fissure in the ground and drops the target in. The target instantly faints if it hits. The user opens up a fissure in the ground and drops the target in. The target faints instantly if this attack hits.
Dig is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User digs underground for one turn, becoming immune to attack, and hits on the second turn. During the immune turn, earthquake, fissure, and magnitude still hit the user normally, and their power is doubled if appropriate. The user may be hit during its immune turn if under the effect of lock on, mind reader, or no guard. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. 1st turn: Burrow 2nd turn: Attack Digs underground the first turn and strikes next turn. An attack that hits on the 2nd turn. Can also be used to exit dungeons. The user burrows, then attacks on the second turn. It can also be used to exit dungeons. The user burrows, then attacks on the next turn. It can also be used to exit dungeons. The user burrows, then attacks on the next turn. The user burrows into the ground, then attacks on the next turn. The user burrows into the ground on the first turn, then attacks on the next turn.
Toxic is a Pokémon move. Badly poisons the target. Never misses when used by a poison-type Pokémon. A poison move with increasing damage. Poisons the foe with an intensifying toxin. A move that badly poisons the foe. Its poison damage worsens every turn. A move that leaves the target badly poisoned. Its poison damage worsens every turn.
Confusion is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. The foe is hit by a weak telekinetic force. It may also leave the foe confused. An attack that may cause confusion. A psychic attack that may cause confusion. A weak telekinetic attack that may also leave the foe confused. The target is hit by a weak telekinetic force. It may also leave the target confused. The target is hit by a weak telekinetic force. This may also confuse the target. The target is hit with a weak telekinetic force to inflict damage. The target is hit with a weak telekinetic force to inflict damage. This may also confuse the target.
Psychic is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. An attack that may lower SPCL.DEF. A powerful psychic attack that may lower SP. DEF. A strong telekinetic attack. It may also lower the foe’s SP. DEF stat. The foe is hit by a strong telekinetic force. It may also reduce the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The target is hit by a strong telekinetic force. It may also reduce the target’s Sp. Def stat. The target is hit by a strong telekinetic force. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The target is hit with a strong telekinetic force to inflict damage. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The target is hit with a strong telekinetic force to inflict damage. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Hypnosis is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. May put the foe to sleep. A hypnotizing move that may induce sleep. Hypnotic suggestion is used to make the foe fall into a deep sleep. The user employs hypnotic suggestion to make the target fall into a deep sleep. The user employs hypnotic suggestion to make the target drowsy. The user employs hypnotic suggestion to make the target fall asleep.
Meditate is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack by one stage. Raises the user's ATTACK. Meditates in a peaceful fashion to raise ATTACK. The user meditates to awaken its power and raise its ATTACK stat. The user meditates to awaken the power deep within its body and raise its Attack stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Agility is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Speed by two stages. Sharply increases the user's SPEED. Relaxes the body to sharply boost SPEED. The user relaxes and lightens its body to sharply boost its SPEED. The user relaxes and lightens its body to move faster. It sharply boosts the Speed stat. The user relaxes and lightens its body to move faster. This sharply raises the Speed stat. The user relaxes and lightens its body to move faster. This sharply boosts its Speed stat.
Quick Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lets the user get in the first hit. An extremely fast attack that always strikes first. An almost invisibly fast attack that is certain to strike first. The user lunges at the foe at a speed that makes it almost invisible. It is sure to strike first. The user lunges at the target at a speed that makes it almost invisible. It is sure to strike first. The user lunges at the target at a speed that makes it almost invisible. This move always goes first. The user lunges at the target to deal damage, moving at a speed that makes it almost invisible. This also raises the user's action speed. The user lunges at the target to inflict damage, moving at blinding speed. This move always goes first.
Rage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Every time the user is hit after it uses this move but before its next action, its Attack raises by one stage. Raises ATTACK if the user is hit. Raises the user’s ATTACK every time it is hit. An attack that becomes stronger each time the user is hit in battle. While this move is in use, it gains attack power each time the user is hit in battle. As long as this move is in use, the power of rage raises the Attack stat each time the user is hit in battle. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Teleport is a Pokémon move. Does nothing. Wild battles end immediately. A move for fleeing from battle. A psychic move for fleeing from battle instantly. Use it to flee from any wild POKéMON. Also warps to the last POKé CENTER. Use it to flee from any wild Pokémon. It may also be used to warp to the last Poké Center visited. Use it to flee from any wild Pokémon. It can also warp to the last Pokémon Center visited. Use it to flee from any wild Pokémon. The user switches places with a different Pokémon instantly, using telekinetic power. The user switches places with a party Pokémon in waiting, if any. If a wild Pokémon uses this move, it flees. The user switches places with a party Pokémon in waiting, if there is any able to battle. If a wild Pokémon uses this move, it flees.
Night Shade is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the user’s level. Type immunity applies, but other type effects are ignored. The user's level equals damage HP. Inflicts damage identical to the user’s level. An attack with a mirage that inflicts damage matching the user’s level. The user makes the foe see a mirage. It inflicts damage matching the user’s level. The user makes the target see a frightening mirage. It inflicts damage matching the user’s level. The user makes the target see a frightening mirage. It inflicts damage equal to the user’s level. The user makes the target see a frightening mirage. It inflicts damage equal to the user's level.
Mimic is a Pokémon move. This move is replaced by the target’s last successfully used move, and its PP changes to 5. If the target hasn’t used a move since entering the field, if it tried to use a move this turn and failed, or if the user already knows the targeted move, this move will fail. This effect vanishes when the user leaves the field. If chatter, metronome, mimic, sketch, or struggle is selected, this move will fail. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome, nor forced by encore. Copies a move used by the foe. Copies a move used by the foe during one battle. The user copies the move last used by the foe for the rest of the battle. The user copies the move last used by the foe. The move can be used for the rest of the battle. The user copies the target’s last move. The move can be used during battle until the Pokémon is switched out. The user copies the target's last move. The move can be used during battle until the Pokémon is switched out. The user copies the move last used by the target. The copied move can be used until the user of Mimic leaves the battle.
Screech is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Defense by two stages. Sharply reduces the foe's DEFENSE. Emits a screech to sharply reduce the foe’s DEFENSE. An ear-splitting screech is emitted to sharply reduce the foe’s DEFENSE. An earsplitting screech is emitted to sharply reduce the foe’s Defense stat. An earsplitting screech harshly reduces the target’s Defense stat. An earsplitting screech harshly lowers the target’s Defense stat. An earsplitting screech harshly lowers the target's Defense stat.
Double Team is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s evasion by one stage. Heightens evasive­ ness. Creates illusory copies to raise evasiveness. The user creates illusory copies of itself to raise its evasiveness. By moving rapidly, the user makes illusory copies of itself to raise its evasiveness. By moving rapidly, the user makes illusory copies of itself to boost its evasiveness.
Recover is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. Recovers up to half the user’s maximum HP. A self-healing move that restores HP by up to half of the user’s maximum HP. Restores HP by 1/2 the max HP. A self-healing move. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its max HP. Restoring its own cells, the user restores its own HP by half of its max HP. The user regenerates its cells to restore its own HP. The user regenerates its cells, restoring its own HP by up to half its max HP.
Harden is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense by one stage. Stiffens the body’s muscles to raise DEFENSE. Raises the user's DEFENSE. The user stiffens all the muscles in its body to raise its DEFENSE stat. The user stiffens all the muscles in its body to raise its Defense stat. The user stiffens all the muscles in its body to boost its Defense stat.
Minimize is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s evasion by two stages. stomp and steamroller have double power against Pokémon that have used this move since entering the field. Heightens evasive­ ness. Minimizes the user’s size to raise evasiveness. The user compresses all the cells in its body to raise its evasiveness. The user compresses its body to make itself look smaller. The user’s evasion stat is boosted. The user compresses its body to make itself look smaller, which sharply raises its evasiveness. The user compresses its body to make itself look smaller, which sharply boosts its evasiveness.
Smokescreen is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s accuracy by one stage. Lowers the foe's accuracy. Lowers the foe’s accuracy using smoke, ink, etc. An obscuring cloud of smoke or ink reduces the foe’s accuracy. The user releases an obscuring cloud of smoke or ink. It reduces the foe’s accuracy. The user releases an obscuring cloud of smoke or ink. It reduces the target’s accuracy. The user releases an obscuring cloud of smoke or ink. This lowers the target’s accuracy. The user releases an obscuring cloud of smoke or ink. This lowers the target's accuracy.
Confuse Ray is a Pokémon move. Confuses the target. A move that causes confusion. A sinister ray that confuses the foe. The foe is exposed to a sinister ray that triggers confusion. The target is exposed to a sinister ray that triggers confusion. The target is exposed to a sinister ray that causes confusion.
Withdraw is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense by one stage. Heightens the user's DEFENSE. Withdraws the body into its hard shell to raise DEFENSE. The user withdraws its body in its hard shell, raising its DEFENSE stat. The user withdraws its body into its hard shell, raising its Defense stat. The user withdraws its body into its hard shell, boosting its Defense stat.
Defense Curl is a Pokémon move. Raises user’s Defense by one stage. After this move is used, the power of ice ball and rollout are doubled until the user leaves the field. Heightens the user's DEFENSE. Curls up to conceal weak spots and raise DEFENSE. The user curls up to conceal weak spots and raise its DEFENSE stat. The user curls up to conceal weak spots and raise its Defense stat. The user curls up and boosts its Defense stat.
Barrier is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense by two stages. Sharply increases user's DEFENSE. Creates a barrier that sharply raises DEFENSE. The user creates a sturdy wall that sharply raises its DEFENSE stat. The user throws up a sturdy wall that sharply raises its Defense stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Light Screen is a Pokémon move. Erects a barrier around the user’s side of the field that reduces damage from special attacks by half for five turns. In double battles, the reduction is 1/3. Critical hits are not affected by the barrier. If the user is holding light clay, the barrier lasts for eight turns. brick break or defog used by an opponent will destroy the barrier. Ups SPCL.DEF with a wall of light. Creates a wall of light that lowers SP. ATK damage. A wall of light cuts damage from SP. ATK attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to suppress damage from special attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from special attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from special moves for five turns.
Haze is a Pokémon move. Removes stat, accuracy, and evasion modifiers from every Pokémon on the field. This does not count as a stat reduction for the purposes of clear body or white smoke. Eliminates all stat changes. Creates a black haze that eliminates all stat changes. Eliminates all stat changes among all POKéMON engaged in battle. The user creates a haze that eliminates every stat change among all the Pokémon engaged in battle.
Reflect is a Pokémon move. Erects a barrier around the user’s side of the field that reduces damage from physical attacks by half for five turns. In double battles, the reduction is 1/3. Critical hits are not affected by the barrier. If the user is holding light clay, the barrier lasts for eight turns. brick break or defog used by an opponent will destroy the barrier. Raises DEFENSE with a barrier. Creates a wall of light that weakens physical attacks. A wall of light cuts damage from physical attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to suppress damage from physical attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from physical attacks for five turns. A wondrous wall of light is put up to reduce damage from physical moves for five turns.
Focus Energy is a Pokémon move. User’s critical hit rate is two levels higher until it leaves the field. If the user has already used focus energy since entering the field, this move will fail. This effect is passed on by baton pass. Raises the criti­ cal hit ratio. Focuses power to raise the critical-hit ratio. The user takes a deep breath and focuses to raise its critical-hit ratio. The user takes a deep breath and focuses to raise the critical-hit ratio of its attacks. The user takes a deep breath and focuses so that critical hits land more easily. The user takes a deep breath and focuses so that its future attacks have a heightened chance of landing critical hits.
Bide is a Pokémon move. User waits for two turns. On the second turn, the user inflicts twice the damage it accumulated on the last Pokémon to hit it. Damage inflicted is typeless. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. Waits 2-3 turns & hits back double. Endures attack for 2 turns to retaliate double. The user endures attacks for two turns, then strikes back double. The user endures attacks for two turns, then strikes back to cause double the damage taken. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Metronome is a Pokémon move. Selects any move at random and uses it. Moves the user already knows are not eligible. Assist, meta, protection, and reflection moves are also not eligible; specifically, assist, chatter, copycat, counter, covet, destiny bond, detect, endure, feint, focus punch, follow me, helping hand, me first, metronome, mimic, mirror coat, mirror move, protect, quick guard, sketch, sleep talk, snatch, struggle, switcheroo, thief, trick, and wide guard will not be selected by this move. This move cannot be copied by mimic or mirror move, nor selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk. Randomly uses any POKéMON move. Waggles a finger to use any POKéMON move at random. Waggles a finger and stimulates the brain into using any move at random. The user waggles a finger and stimulates the brain into randomly using nearly any move. The user waggles a finger and stimulates its brain into randomly using nearly any move.
Mirror Move is a Pokémon move. Uses the last move targeted at the user by a Pokémon still on the field. A move counts as targeting the user even if it hit multiple Pokémon, as long as the user was one of them; however, moves targeting the field itself do not count. If the user has not been targeted by an appropriate move since entering the field, or if no Pokémon that targeted the user remains on the field, this move will fail. Moves that failed, missed, had no effect, or were blocked are still copied. Assist moves, time-delayed moves, “meta” moves that operate on other moves/Pokémon/abilities, and some other special moves cannot be copied and are ignored; if the last move to hit the user was such a move, the previous move will be used instead. The full list of ignored moves is: acid armor, acupressure, after you, agility, ally switch, amnesia, aqua ring, aromatherapy, aromatic mist, assist, autotomize, barrier, baton pass, belch, belly drum, bide, bulk up, calm mind, camouflage, celebrate, charge, coil, conversion, conversion 2, copycat, cosmic power, cotton guard, counter, crafty shield, curse, defend order, defense curl, destiny bond, detect, doom desire, double team, dragon dance, electric terrain, endure, final gambit, flower shield, focus energy, focus punch, follow me, future sight, geomancy, grassy terrain, gravity, growth, grudge, guard split, hail, happy hour, harden, haze, heal bell, heal order, heal pulse, healing wish, helping hand, hold hands, hone claws, howl, imprison, ingrain, ion deluge, iron defense, kings shield, light screen, lucky chant, lunar dance, magic coat, magnet rise, magnetic flux, mat block, me first, meditate, metronome, milk drink, mimic, minimize, mirror coat, mirror move, mist, misty terrain, moonlight, morning sun, mud sport, nasty plot, nature power, perish song, power split, power trick, protect, psych up, quick guard, quiver dance, rage powder, rain dance, recover, recycle, reflect, reflect type, refresh, rest, rock polish, role play, roost, rototiller, safeguard, sandstorm, shadow blast, shadow bolt, shadow half, shadow rush, shadow shed, shadow sky, shadow storm, shadow wave, sharpen, shell smash, shift gear, sketch, slack off, sleep talk, snatch, soft boiled, spikes, spiky shield, spit up, splash, stealth rock, sticky web, stockpile, struggle, substitute, sunny day, swallow, swords dance, synthesis, tail glow, tailwind, teleport, toxic spikes, transform, water sport, wide guard, wish, withdraw and work up. This move cannot be selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk, nor forced by encore. Counters with the same move. Counters the foe’s attack with the same move. The user counters the move last used by the foe with the same move. The user counters the foe by mimicking the move last used by the foe. The user counters the target by mimicking the target’s last move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Self Destruct is a Pokémon move. User faints, even if the attack fails or misses. Inflicts regular damage. Powerful but makes the user faint. Inflicts severe damage but makes the user faint. The user blows up to inflict severe damage, even making itself faint. The user blows up to inflict damage on all Pokémon in battle. The user faints upon using this move. The user attacks everything around it by causing an explosion. The user faints upon using this move. The user causes an explosion to inflict damage on the target. This also damages the user.
Egg Bomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Eggs are hurled at the foe. An egg is forcibly hurled at the foe. A large egg is hurled with great force at the foe to inflict damage. A large egg is hurled with maximum force at the foe to inflict damage. A large egg is hurled at the target with maximum force to inflict damage. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Lick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An attack that may cause paralysis. Licks with a long tongue to injure. May also paralyze. The foe is licked and hit with a long tongue. It may also paralyze. The foe is licked with a long tongue, causing damage. It may also paralyze the target. The target is licked with a long tongue, causing damage. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The target is licked with a long tongue, causing damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user licks the target with a long tongue to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Smog is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. An attack that may poison the foe. An exhaust-gas attack that may also poison. The foe is attacked with exhaust gases. It may also poison the foe. The foe is attacked with a discharge of filthy gases. It may also poison the target. The target is attacked with a discharge of filthy gases. It may also poison the target. The target is attacked with a discharge of filthy gases. This may also poison the target.
Sludge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. An attack that may poison the foe. Sludge is hurled to inflict damage. May also poison. Toxic sludge is hurled at the foe. It may poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the foe. It may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. It may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. This may also poison the target. The user hurls unsanitary sludge at the target to inflict damage. This may also poison the target.
Bone Club is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack that may cause flinching. Clubs the foe with a bone. May cause flinching. The foe is clubbed with a bone held in hand. It may make the foe flinch. The user clubs the foe with a bone. It may also make the target flinch. The user clubs the target with a bone. It may also make the target flinch. The user clubs the target with a bone. This may also make the target flinch. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Fire Blast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. An attack that may cause a burn. A fiery blast that scorches all. May cause a burn. Incinerates everything it strikes. May cause a burn. The foe is hit with an intense flame. It may leave the target with a burn. The foe is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is attacked with an intense blast of all-consuming fire. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Waterfall is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An aquatic charge attack. Charges the foe with speed to climb waterfalls. A powerful charge attack. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges the foe at an awesome speed. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges at the foe rapidly, and may make it flinch. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch. It can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch. This can also be used to climb a waterfall. The user charges at the target and may make it flinch.
Clamp is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. Traps the foe for 2-5 turns. Traps and squeezes the foe for 2 to 5 turns. The foe is clamped and squeezed by the user’s shell for two to five turns. The foe is clamped and squeezed by the user’s very thick and sturdy shell for two to five turns. The target is clamped and squeezed by the user’s very thick and sturdy shell for four to five turns. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Swift is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. Sprays star-shaped rays that never miss. Star-shaped rays that never miss are fired at all foes in battle. An attack that never misses. Star-shaped rays are shot at the foe. This attack never misses. Star-shaped rays are shot at the opposing team. This attack never misses. Star-shaped rays are shot at the opposing Pokémon. This attack never misses. Star-shaped rays are shot at opposing Pokémon. This attack never misses. Star-shaped rays are shot at the target. This attack never misses.
Skull Bash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Raises the user’s Defense by one stage. User then charges for one turn before attacking. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. 1st turn: Prepare 2nd turn: Attack Tucks in the head, then attacks on the next turn. The user raises its DEFENSE in the 1st turn, then attacks in the 2nd turn. The user tucks in its head to raise its Defense in the first turn, then rams the foe on the next turn. The user tucks in its head to raise its Defense in the first turn, then rams the target on the next turn. The user tucks in its head to raise its Defense stat on the first turn, then rams the target on the next turn.
Spike Cannon is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Fires spikes to hit 2-5 times. Launches sharp spikes that strike 2 to 5 times. Sharp spikes are fired at the foe to strike two to five times. Sharp spikes are fired at the foe to strike two to five times in rapid succession. Sharp spikes are shot at the target in rapid succession. They hit two to five times in a row. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Constrict is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. An attack that may lower SPEED. Constricts to inflict pain. May lower SPEED. The foe is attacked with long tentacles or vines. It may lower SPEED. The foe is attacked with long, creeping tentacles or vines. It may also lower the target’s Speed. The target is attacked with long, creeping tentacles or vines. It may also lower the target’s Speed stat. The target is attacked with long, creeping tentacles or vines. This may also lower the target’s Speed stat. The target is attacked with long, creeping tentacles, vines, or the like. This may also lower the target’s Speed stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Amnesia is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Special Defense by two stages. Sharply raises the user's SPCL.DEF. Forgets about something and sharply raises SP. DEF. The user temporarily empties its mind to forget its concerns. It sharply raises the user’s Sp. Def stat. The user temporarily empties its mind to forget its concerns. This sharply raises the user’s Sp. Def stat. The user temporarily empties its mind to forget its concerns. This sharply raises the user's Sp. Def stat. The user temporarily empties its mind to forget its concerns. This sharply boosts the user's Sp. Def stat.
Kinesis is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s accuracy by one stage. Reduces the foe's accuracy. Distracts the foe. May lower accuracy. The user distracts the foe by bending a spoon. It may lower accuracy. The user distracts the foe by bending a spoon. It may lower the target’s accuracy. The user distracts the target by bending a spoon. It lowers the target’s accuracy. The user distracts the target by bending a spoon. This lowers the target’s accuracy.
Soft Boiled is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. Restores HP by 1/2 the user's max HP. Recovers up to half the user’s maximum HP. Heals the user by up to half its full HP. It can be used to heal an ally. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its max HP. May be used in the field to heal HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its maximum HP. It may also be used to heal an ally’s HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its maximum HP. May also be used in the field to heal HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its max HP. May also be used in the field to heal HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its max HP. The user restores its own HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half its max HP.
High Jump Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If this move misses, is blocked by protect or detect, or has no effect, the user takes damage equal to half of its max HP rounded down. This move cannot be used while gravity is in effect. May miss and hurt the user. A jumping knee kick. If it misses, the user is hurt. A strong jumping knee kick. If it misses, the user is hurt. The foe is attacked with a knee kick from a jump. If it misses, the user is hurt instead. The target is attacked with a knee kick from a jump. If it misses, the user is hurt instead. The target is attacked with a knee kick from a jump. If this move misses, the user takes damage instead.
Glare is a Pokémon move. Paralyzes the target. A move that may cause paralysis. Intimidates and frightens the foe into paralysis. The user intimidates the foe with the design on its belly to cause paralysis. The user intimidates the foe with the pattern on its belly to cause paralysis. The user intimidates the target with the pattern on its belly to cause paralysis.
Dream Eater is a Pokémon move. Fails if not used on a sleeping Pokémon. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. Steals HP from a sleeping victim. Takes one half the damage inflicted on a sleeping foe. Absorbs half the damage it inflicted on a sleeping foe to restore HP. An attack that works only on a sleeping foe. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal the user’s HP. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal the user’s HP. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. It absorbs half the damage caused to heal its own HP. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. The user's HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user eats the dreams of a sleeping target. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Poison Gas is a Pokémon move. Poisons the target. A move that may poison the foe. Envelops the foe in a toxic gas that may poison. The foe is sprayed with a cloud of toxic gas that may poison the foe. A cloud of poison gas is sprayed in the foe’s face. It may poison the target. A cloud of poison gas is sprayed in the face of opposing Pokémon. It may poison those hit. A cloud of poison gas is sprayed in the face of opposing Pokémon. This may also poison those hit. A cloud of poison gas is sprayed in the face of opposing Pokémon, poisoning those hit. A cloud of poison gas is sprayed in the face of opposing Pokémon, poisoning those it hits. The user sprays a cloud of toxic gas that poisons the target. A cloud of poison gas is sprayed in the faces of opposing Pokémon, poisoning those it hits.
Barrage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Throws orbs to hit 2-5 times. Hurls round objects at the foe 2 to 5 times. Round objects are hurled at the foe to strike two to five times. Round objects are hurled at the foe to strike two to five times in a row. Round objects are hurled at the target to strike two to five times in a row. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Leech Life is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. Steals 1/2 of the damage inflicted. An attack that steals half the damage inflicted. An attack that absorbs half the damage it inflicted to restore HP. A blood-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user drains the target’s blood. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user attacks by draining the target's blood. Some of the damage dealt to the target is absorbed by the user to restore their own HP. The user drains the target's blood. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Lovely Kiss is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. May cause the foe to fall asleep. Demands a kiss with a scary face that induces sleep. The user forces a kiss on the foe with a scary face that induces sleep. With a scary face, the user forces a kiss on the foe. It may make the target fall asleep. With a scary face, the user tries to force a kiss on the foe. If it succeeds, the target falls asleep. With a scary face, the user tries to force a kiss on the target. If it succeeds, the target falls asleep.
Sky Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User charges for one turn before attacking. Critical hit chance is one level higher than normal. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. 1st turn: Prepare 2nd turn: Attack Searches out weak spots, then strikes the next turn. A 2nd-turn attack move with a high critical-hit ratio. The foe may flinch. A second-turn attack move with a high critical-hit ratio. It may also make the target flinch. A second-turn attack move where critical hits land more easily. It may also make the target flinch. A second-turn attack move where critical hits land more easily. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks the turn after using this move. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit and may also make the target flinch.
Transform is a Pokémon move. User copies the target’s species, weight, type, ability, calculated stats (except HP), and moves. Copied moves will all have 5 PP remaining. IVs are copied for the purposes of hidden power, but stats are not recalculated. choice band, choice scarf, and choice specs stay in effect, and the user must select a new move. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor forced by encore. The user assumes the foe's guise. Alters the user’s cells to become a copy of the foe. The user transforms into a copy of the foe with even the same move set. The user transforms into a copy of the foe right down to having the same move set. The user transforms into a copy of the target right down to having the same move set. The user transforms into a copy of the target, right down to having the same move set.
Bubble is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. An attack that may reduce SPEED. An attack using bubbles. May lower the foe’s SPEED. A spray of bubbles hits the foe. It may lower the foe’s SPEED stat. A spray of countless bubbles is jetted at the foe. It may also lower the target’s Speed stat. A spray of countless bubbles is jetted at the opposing team. It may also lower the targets’ Speed stats. A spray of countless bubbles is jetted at the opposing Pokémon. This may also lower their Speed stats. A spray of countless bubbles is jetted at the opposing Pokémon. This may also lower their Speed stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Dizzy Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. An attack that may cause confusion. A rhythmic punch that may confuse the foe. The foe is hit with a rhythmic punch that may leave it confused. The foe is hit with a rhythmically launched punch that may also leave it confused. The foe is hit with rhythmically launched punches that may also leave it confused. The target is hit with rhythmically launched punches that may also leave it confused. The target is hit with rhythmically launched punches. This may also leave the target confused. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Spore is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. A move that induces sleep. Scatters a cloud of spores that always induce sleep. The user scatters bursts of fine spores that induce sleep. The user scatters bursts of spores that induce sleep. The user scatters a burst of spores that makes the target drowsy.
Flash is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s accuracy by one stage. Blinds the foe to reduce accuracy. Looses a powerful blast of light that cuts accuracy. A blast of light that cuts the foe’s accuracy. It also illuminates caves. The user flashes a light that cuts the foe’s accuracy. It can also be used to illuminate caves. The user flashes a bright light that cuts the target’s accuracy. It can also be used to illuminate caves. The user flashes a bright light that cuts the target’s accuracy. The user flashes a bright light that cuts the target’s accuracy. It can also be used to illuminate dark caves. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Psywave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless damage between 50% and 150% of the user’s level, selected at random in increments of 10%. An attack with variable power. Attacks with a psychic wave of varying intensity. The foe is attacked with an odd, hot energy wave that varies in intensity. The foe is attacked with an odd, hot energy wave. The attack varies in intensity. The target is attacked with an odd psychic wave. The attack varies in intensity. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Splash is a Pokémon move. Does nothing. This move cannot be used while gravity is in effect. Has no effect whatsoever. It’s just a splash... Has no effect whatsoever. The user just flops and splashes around without having any effect. The user just flops and splashes around to no effect at all...
Acid Armor is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense by two stages. Sharply raises the user's DEFENSE. Liquifies the user’s body to sharply raise DEFENSE. The user alters its cells to liquefy itself and sharply raise DEFENSE. The user alters its cellular structure to liquefy itself, sharply raising its Defense stat. The user alters its cellular structure to liquefy itself, raising its defensive stats. The user alters its cellular structure to liquefy itself, sharply boosting its Defense stat.
Crabhammer is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a high criti­ cal hit ratio. Hammers with a pincer. Has a high critical-hit ratio. A large pincer is used to hammer the foe. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The foe is hammered with a large pincer. This move has a high critical-hit ratio. The target is hammered with a large pincer. Critical hits land more easily. The target is hammered with a large pincer. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Explosion is a Pokémon move. User faints, even if the attack fails or misses. Inflicts regular damage. Very powerful but makes user faint. Inflicts severe damage but makes the user faint. The user explodes to inflict terrible damage even while fainting itself. The user explodes to inflict damage on all Pokémon in battle. The user faints upon using this move. The user explodes to inflict damage on those around it. The user faints upon using this move. The user attacks everything around it by causing a tremendous explosion. The user faints upon using this move.
Fury Swipes is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Quickly scratches 2-5 times. Rakes the foe with sharp claws, etc., 2 to 5 times. The foe is raked with sharp claws or scythes two to five times. The foe is raked with sharp claws or scythes for two to five times in quick succession. The target is raked with sharp claws or scythes for two to five times in quick succession. The target is raked with sharp claws or scythes quickly two to five times in a row. The user attacks by raking the target with claws, scythes, or the like. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Bonemerang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn. An attack that strikes twice. Throws a bone boomerang that strikes twice. The user throws a bone that hits the foe once, then once again on return. The user throws the bone it holds. The bone loops to hit the foe twice, coming and going. The user throws the bone it holds. The bone loops to hit the target twice, coming and going. The user throws the bone it holds. The bone loops around to hit the target twice—coming and going.
Rest is a Pokémon move. User falls to sleep and immediately regains all its HP. If the user has another major status effect, sleep will replace it. The user will always wake up after two turns, or one turn with early bird. This move fails if the Pokémon cannot fall asleep due to uproar, insomnia, or vital spirit. It also fails if the Pokémon is at full health or is already asleep. Sleep for 2 turns to fully recover. The user sleeps for 2 turns, restoring HP and status. The user sleeps for two turns to fully restore HP and heal any status problem. The user goes to sleep for two turns. It fully restores the user’s HP and heals any status problem. The user goes to sleep for two turns. This fully restores the user’s HP and heals any status conditions. The user restores its own HP but also becomes drowsy. The user goes to sleep for two turns. This fully restores the user's HP and cures any status conditions.
Rock Slide is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack that may cause flinching. Large boulders are hurled. May cause flinching. Large boulders are hurled at the foe. It may make the foe flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the foe to inflict damage. It may also make the target flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the opposing team to inflict damage. It may also make the targets flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the opposing Pokémon to inflict damage. This may also make the opposing Pokémon flinch. Large boulders are hurled at opposing Pokémon to inflict damage. This may also make the opposing Pokémon flinch. Large boulders are hurled at the target to inflict damage.
Hyper Fang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack that may cause flinching. Attacks with sharp fangs. May cause flinching. The foe is attacked with sharp fangs. It may make the foe flinch. The user bites hard on the foe with its sharp front fangs. It may also make the target flinch. The user bites hard on the target with its sharp front fangs. It may also make the target flinch. The user bites hard on the target with its sharp front fangs. This may also make the target flinch.
Sharpen is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack by one stage. A move that raises the user's ATTACK. Reduces the polygon count and raises ATTACK. The user reduces its polygon count to sharpen edges and raise ATTACK. The user reduces its polygon count to make itself more jagged, raising the Attack stat. The user lowers its polygon count to make itself more jagged, raising the Attack stat. The user makes its edges more jagged, which raises its Attack stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Conversion is a Pokémon move. User’s type changes to the type of one of its moves, selected at random. hidden power and weather ball are treated as normal. Only moves with a different type are eligible, and curse is never eligible. If the user has no suitable moves, this move will fail. Change user's type to a move's type. Changes the user’s type into an own move’s type. Changes the user’s type into a known move’s type. The user changes its type to match the type of one of its moves. The user changes its type to become the same type as one of its moves. The user changes its type to become the same type as the move at the top of the list of moves it knows.
Tri Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn, freeze, or paralyze the target. One of these effects is selected at random; they do not each have independent chances to occur. Fires three kinds of beams at once. Fires three types of beams at the same time. A simultaneous 3-beam attack that may paralyze, burn, or freeze the foe. The user strikes with a simultaneous three- beam attack. May also paralyze, burn, or freeze the target. The user strikes with a simultaneous three-beam attack. May also burn, freeze, or leave the target with paralysis. The user strikes with a simultaneous three-beam attack. May also burn, freeze, or paralyze the target. The user strikes with a simultaneous three-beam attack. This may also burn, freeze, or paralyze the target. The user strikes with a simultaneous three-beam attack. This may also leave the target with a burn, paralysis, or frostbite.
Super Fang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless damage equal to half the target’s remaining HP. Cuts the foe's HP by 1/2. Attacks with sharp fangs and cuts half the foe’s HP. The user attacks with sharp fangs and halves the foe’s HP. The user chomps hard on the foe with its sharp front fangs. It cuts the target’s HP to half. The user chomps hard on the target with its sharp front fangs. It cuts the target’s HP to half. The user chomps hard on the target with its sharp front fangs. This cuts the target’s HP in half. The user chomps hard on the target with its sharp front fangs. This cuts the target's HP in half.
Slash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a high criti­ cal hit ratio. Slashes with claws, etc. Has a high critical-hit ratio. The foe is slashed with claws, etc. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The foe is attacked with a slash of claws, etc. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The target is attacked with a slash of claws or blades. Critical hits land more easily. The target is attacked with a slash of claws or blades. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The target is attacked with a slash of claws, scythes, or the like. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Substitute is a Pokémon move. Transfers 1/4 the user’s max HP into a doll that absorbs damage and causes most negative move effects to fail. If the user leaves the field, the doll will vanish. If the user cannot pay the HP cost, this move will fail. The doll takes damage as normal, using the user’s stats and types, and will break when its HP reaches zero. Self-inflicted damage from confusion or recoil is not absorbed. Healing effects from opponents ignore the doll and heal the user as normal. Moves that work based on the user’s HP still do so; the doll’s HP does not influence any move. The doll will block major status effects, confusion, and flinching. The effects of smelling salts and wake up slap do not trigger against a doll, even if the Pokémon behind the doll has the appropriate major status effect. Multi-turn trapping moves like wrap will hit the doll for their regular damage, but the multi-turn trapping and damage effects will not activate. Moves blocked or damage absorbed by the doll do not count as hitting the user or inflicting damage for any effects that respond to such, e.g., avalanche, counter, or a rowap berry. magic coat still works as normal, even against moves the doll would block. Opposing Pokémon that damage the doll with a leech move like absorb are healed as normal. It will also block acupressure, block, the curse effect of curse, dream eater, embargo, flatter, gastro acid, grudge, heal block, leech seed, lock on, mean look, mimic, mind reader, nightmare, pain split, psycho shift, spider web, sketch, swagger, switcheroo, trick, worry seed, and yawn. A Pokémon affected by yawn before summoning the doll will still fall to sleep. The doll blocks intimidate, but all other abilities act as though the doll did not exist. If the user has an ability that absorbs moves of a certain type for HP (such as volt absorb absorbing thunder wave), such moves will not be blocked. life orb and berries that cause confusion still work as normal, but their respective HP loss and confusion are absorbed/blocked by the doll. The user is still vulnerable to damage inflicted when entering or leaving the field, such as by pursuit or spikes; however, the doll will block the poison effect of toxic spikes. The doll is passed on by baton pass. It keeps its existing HP, but uses the replacement Pokémon’s stats and types for damage calculation. All other effects work as normal. Makes a decoy with 1/4 user's max HP. Creates a decoy using 1/4 of the user’s maximum HP. The user creates a decoy using one- quarter of its full HP. The user makes a copy of itself using some of its HP. The copy serves as the user’s decoy. The user creates a substitute for itself using some of its HP. The substitute serves as the user’s decoy. The user creates a substitute for itself using some of its HP. The substitute serves as the user's decoy. The user creates a substitute for itself using some of its own HP. The substitute serves as the user's decoy.
Struggle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless regular damage. User takes 1/4 its max HP in recoil. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This move is used automatically when a Pokémon cannot use any other move legally, e.g., due to having no PP remaining or being under the effect of both encore and torment at the same time. This move’s recoil is not treated as recoil for the purposes of anything that affects recoil, such as the ability rock head. It also is not prevented by magic guard. This move cannot be copied by mimic, mirror move, or sketch, nor selected by assist or metronome, nor forced by encore. Used only if all PP are exhausted. Used only if all PP are gone. Also hurts the user a little. An attack that is used only if there is no PP. It also hurts the user. An attack that is used in desperation only if the user has no PP. It also hurts the user slightly. An attack that is used in desperation only if the user has no PP. This also damages the user a little. This attack is used in desperation only if the user has no PP. It also damages the user a little.
Sketch is a Pokémon move. Permanently replaces itself with the target’s last used move. If that move is chatter or struggle, this move will fail. This move cannot be copied by mimic or mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome, nor forced by encore. Copies the foe's move permanently. Copies the foe’s last move permanently. This move copies the move last used by the foe, then disappears. It enables the user to learn a move used by the foe. Once used, the move Sketch disappears. It enables the user to permanently learn the move last used by the foe. Once used, Sketch disappears. It enables the user to permanently learn the move last used by the target. Once used, Sketch disappears. This move enables the user to permanently learn the move last used by the target. Once used, Sketch disappears.
Triple Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits three times in the same turn. The second hit has double power, and the third hit has triple power. Each hit has a separate accuracy check, and this move stops if a hit misses. skill link does not apply. Hits three times with rising power. Kicks the foe 3 times in a row with rising intensity. A 3-kick attack that becomes more powerful with each successive hit. A consecutive three- kick attack that becomes more powerful with each successive hit. A consecutive three-kick attack that becomes more powerful with each successive hit. A consecutive three-kick attack that becomes more powerful with each successful hit.
Thief is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is holding an item and the user is not, the user will permanently take the item. Damage is still inflicted if an item cannot be taken. Pokémon with sticky hold or multitype are immune to the item theft effect. The target cannot recover its item with recycle. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. While attacking, it may steal the foe’s held item. An attack that may take the foe’s held item if the user isn’t holding one. An attack that may steal a held item. The user attacks and steals the foe’s held item simultaneously. It can’t steal if the user holds an item. The user attacks and steals the target’s held item simultaneously. It can’t steal if the user holds an item. The user attacks and steals the target’s held item simultaneously. The user can’t steal anything if it already holds an item. The user attacks and steals the target's held item simultaneously. The user can't steal anything if it already holds an item.
Spider Web is a Pokémon move. The target cannot switch out normally. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This effect ends when the user leaves the field. The target may still escape by using baton pass, u turn, or a shed shell. Both the user and the target pass on this effect with baton pass. Prevents fleeing or switching. Ensnares the foe to stop it from fleeing or switching. Ensnares the foe with sticky string so it doesn’t flee or switch out. The user ensnares the foe with a thin, gooey silk so it can’t flee from battle. The user ensnares the target with thin, gooey silk so it can’t flee from battle. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Mind Reader is a Pokémon move. If the user targets the same target again before the end of the next turn, the move it uses is guaranteed to hit. This move itself also ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. One-hit KO moves are also guaranteed to hit, as long as the user is equal or higher level than the target. This effect also allows the user to hit Pokémon that are off the field due to moves such as dig or fly. If the target uses detect or protect while under the effect of this move, the user is not guaranteed to hit, but has a (100 - accuracy)% chance to break through the protection. This effect is passed on by baton pass. Ensures the next attack will hit. Senses the foe’s action to ensure the next move’s hit. The user predicts the foe’s action to ensure its next attack hits. The user senses the foe’s movements with its mind to ensure its next attack does not miss. The user senses the target’s movements with its mind to ensure its next attack does not miss the target.
Nightmare is a Pokémon move. Only works on sleeping Pokémon. Gives the target a nightmare, damaging it for 1/4 its max HP every turn. If the target wakes up or leaves the field, this effect ends. A sleeper loses 1/4 HP every turn. Inflicts 1/4 damage on a sleeping foe every turn. A sleeping foe is shown a nightmare that inflicts some damage every turn. A sleeping target sees a nightmare that inflicts some damage every turn. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Flame Wheel is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. Frozen Pokémon may use this move, in which case they will thaw. An attack that may cause a burn. A fiery charge attack that may inflict a burn. The user makes a fiery charge at the foe. It may cause a burn. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges at the foe. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges at the target. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges at the target. This may also leave the target with a burn. The user cloaks itself in flames and charges at the target to deal damage. This may also leave the target with a burn. The user attacks by cloaking itself in fire and charging at the target. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Snore is a Pokémon move. Only usable if the user is sleeping. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack useable only while asleep. A loud attack that can be used only while asleep. An attack that can be used only while asleep. It may cause flinching. An attack that can be used only if the user is asleep. The harsh noise may also make the foe flinch. An attack that can be used only if the user is asleep. The harsh noise may also make the target flinch. This attack can be used only if the user is asleep. The harsh noise may also make the target flinch.
Curse is a Pokémon move. If the user is a ghost: user pays half its max HP to place a curse on the target, damaging it for 1/4 its max HP every turn. Otherwise: Lowers the user’s Speed by one stage, and raises its Attack and Defense by one stage each. The curse effect is passed on by baton pass. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Works differently for ghost-types. A move that functions differently for GHOSTS. A move that works differently for the GHOST-type and all the other types. A move that works differently for the Ghost type than for all the other types. A move that works differently for the Ghost type than for all other types. A move that has different effects depending on whether the user is a Ghost type or not.
Flail is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power varies inversely with the user’s proportional remaining HP. 64 * current HP / max HP | Power -----------------------: | ----: 0– 1 | 200 2– 5 | 150 6–12 | 100 13–21 | 80 22–42 | 40 43–64 | 20 Stronger if the user's HP is low. Inflicts more damage when the user’s HP is down. A desperate attack that becomes more powerful the less HP the user has. The user flails about aimlessly to attack. It becomes more powerful the less HP the user has. The user flails about aimlessly to attack. The less HP the user has, the greater the move’s power. The user flails about aimlessly to attack. The less HP the user has, the greater the move's power.
Conversion 2 is a Pokémon move. Changes the user’s type to a type either resistant or immune to the last damaging move that hit it. The new type is selected at random and cannot be a type the user already is. If there is no eligible new type, this move will fail. The user's type is made resistant. Makes the user resistant to the last attack’s type. The user changes type to make itself resistant to the last attack it took. The user changes its type to make itself resistant to the type of the attack it last took. The user changes its type to make itself resistant to the type of the attack the opponent used last. The user changes its type to make itself resistant to the type of the attack the target used last. The user changes its type to make itself resistant to the type of the move the target used last.
Aeroblast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a high criti­ cal hit ratio. Launches a vacuumed blast. High critical-hit ratio. A vortex of air is shot at the foe. It has a high critical-hit ratio. A vortex of air is shot at the foe to inflict damage. It has a high critical-hit ratio. A vortex of air is shot at the target to inflict damage. Critical hits land more easily. A vortex of air is shot at the target to inflict damage. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Cotton Spore is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Speed by two stages. Sharply reduces the foe's SPEED. Spores cling to the foe, sharply reducing SPEED. Cotton-like spores cling to the foe, sharply reducing its SPEED stat. The user releases cottonlike spores that cling to the foe, sharply reducing its Speed stat. The user releases cotton-like spores that cling to the target, harshly reducing its Speed stat. The user releases cotton-like spores that cling to the opposing Pokémon, which harshly lowers their Speed stats. The user releases cotton-like spores that cling to the opposing Pokémon, which harshly lowers their Speed stat. The user releases cotton-like spores that cling to opposing Pokémon, which harshly lowers their Speed stats. The user releases cotton-like spores that cling to opposing Pokémon. This harshly lowers their Speed stats.
Reversal is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power varies inversely with the user’s proportional remaining HP. 64 * current HP / max HP | Power -----------------------: | ----: 0– 1 | 200 2– 5 | 150 6–12 | 100 13–21 | 80 22–42 | 40 43–64 | 20 Stronger if the user's HP is low. Inflicts more damage when the user’s HP is down. An all-out attack that becomes more powerful the less HP the user has.
Spite is a Pokémon move. Lowers the PP of the target’s last used move by 4. If the target hasn’t used a move since entering the field, if it tried to use a move this turn and failed, or if its last used move has 0 PP remaining, this move will fail. Cuts the PP of the foe's last move. Spitefully cuts the PP of the foe’s last move. A move that cuts 2 to 5 PP from the move last used by the foe. The user looses its grudge on the move last used by the foe by cutting 4 PP from it. The user unleashes its grudge on the move last used by the target by cutting 4 PP from it.
Powder Snow is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to freeze the target. An attack that may cause freezing. Blasts the foe with a snowy gust. May cause freezing. Blasts the foe with a snowy gust. It may cause freezing. The user attacks with a chilling gust of powdery snow. It may also freeze the target. The user attacks with a chilling gust of powdery snow. It may also freeze the targets. The user attacks with a chilling gust of powdery snow. This may also freeze the opposing Pokémon. The user attacks with a chilling gust of powdery snow. This may also freeze opposing Pokémon. The user attacks with a chilling gust of powdery snow. This may also leave the target with frostbite. The user attacks with a chilling gust of powdery snow. This may also leave opposing Pokémon frozen.
Protect is a Pokémon move. No moves will hit the user for the remainder of this turn. If the user is last to act this turn, this move will fail. If the user successfully used detect, endure, protect, quick guard, or wide guard on the last turn, this move has a 50% chance to fail. lock on, mind reader, and no guard provide a (100 – accuracy)% chance for moves to break through this move. This does not apply to one-hit KO moves (fissure, guillotine, horn drill, and sheer cold); those are always blocked by this move. thunder during rain dance and blizzard during hail have a 30% chance to break through this move. The following effects are not prevented by this move: * acupressure from an ally * curse’s curse effect * Delayed damage from doom desire and future sight; however, these moves will be prevented if they are used this turn * feint, which will also end this move’s protection after it hits * imprison * perish song * shadow force * Moves that merely copy the user, such as transform or psych up This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. Foils attack that turn. It may fail. Evades attack, but may fail if used in succession. Enables the user to evade all attacks. It may fail if used in succession. It enables the user to evade all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. Enables the user to evade all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. Enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. This move enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Mach Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A fast punch that lands first. A punch is thrown at wicked speed to strike first. A punch thrown at blinding speed. It is certain to strike first. The user throws a punch at blinding speed. It is certain to strike first. The user throws a punch at blinding speed. This move always goes first. The user throws a punch at blinding speed. This also raises the user's action speed.
Scary Face is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Speed by two stages. Sharply reduces the foe's SPEED. Frightens with a scary face to sharply reduce SPEED. Frightens the foe with a scary face to sharply reduce its SPEED. The user frightens the foe with a scary face to sharply reduce its Speed stat. The user frightens the target with a scary face to harshly reduce its Speed stat. The user frightens the target with a scary face to harshly lower its Speed stat.
Feint Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. An attack that never misses. Draws the foe close, then strikes without fail. The user draws up close to the foe disarmingly, then hits without fail. The user draws up to the foe disarmingly, then throws a sucker punch. It hits without fail. The user approaches the target disarmingly, then throws a sucker punch. It hits without fail. The user approaches the target disarmingly, then throws a sucker punch. This attack never misses. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sweet Kiss is a Pokémon move. Confuses the target. A move that causes confusion. Demands a kiss with a cute look. May cause confusion. The user kisses the foe with sweet cuteness that causes confusion. The user kisses the foe with a sweet, angelic cuteness that causes confusion. The user kisses the target with a sweet, angelic cuteness that causes confusion.
Belly Drum is a Pokémon move. User pays half its max HP to raise its Attack to +6 stages. If the user cannot pay the HP cost, this move will fail. Reduces own HP to maximize ATTACK. Maximizes ATTACK while sacrificing HP. The user maximizes its ATTACK stat at the cost of half its full HP. The user maximizes its Attack stat in exchange for HP equal to half its max HP. The user maximizes its Attack stat but loses HP equal to half its max HP.
Sludge Bomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. An attack that may poison the foe. Sludge is hurled to inflict damage. May also poison. Filthy sludge is hurled at the foe. It may poison the target. The user attacks by hurling filthy sludge at the foe. It may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. It may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target. This may also poison the target. Unsanitary sludge is hurled at the target to deal damage. This may also poison the target. The user hurls unsanitary sludge at the target to inflict damage. This may also poison the target.
Mud Slap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. Reduces the foe's accuracy. Hurls mud in the foe’s face to reduce its accuracy. Mud is hurled in the foe’s face to inflict damage and lower its accuracy. The user hurls mud in the foe’s face to inflict damage and lower its accuracy. The user hurls mud in the target’s face to inflict damage and lower its accuracy. The user hurls mud in the target's face to inflict damage. Incoming moves also become more likely to miss. The user hurls mud in the target's face to inflict damage and lower its accuracy.
Octazooka is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. An attack that may reduce accuracy. Fires a lump of ink to damage and cut accuracy. Ink is blasted in the foe’s face or eyes to damage and lower accuracy. The user attacks by spraying ink in the foe’s face or eyes. It may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user attacks by spraying ink in the target’s face or eyes. It may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user attacks by spraying ink in the target’s face or eyes. This may also lower the target’s accuracy.
Spikes is a Pokémon move. Scatters spikes around the opposing field, which damage opposing Pokémon that enter the field for 1/8 of their max HP. Pokémon immune to ground moves are immune to this damage, except during gravity. Up to three layers of spikes may be laid down, adding 1/16 to the damage done: two layers of spikes damage for 3/16 max HP, and three layers damage for 1/4 max HP. wonder guard does not block damage from this effect. rapid spin removes this effect from its user’s side of the field. defog removes this effect from its target’s side of the field. Hurts foes when they switch out. Sets spikes that hurt a foe switching out. Sets spikes that hurt a foe switching in. A trap of spikes is laid around the foe’s party to hurt foes switching in. The user lays a trap of spikes at the foe’s feet. The trap hurts foes that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of spikes at the opposing team’s feet. The trap hurts Pokémon that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of spikes at the target's feet. The spikes left behind by this attack continue to damage the target for several turns. The user lays a trap of spikes at the feet of the opposing team. The spikes will damage opposing Pokémon that switch into battle.
Zap Cannon is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An attack that always paralyzes. Powerful and sure to cause paralysis, but inaccurate. An electric blast is fired like a cannon to inflict damage and paralyze. The user fires an electric blast like a cannon to inflict damage and cause paralysis. The user attacks by firing an electric blast like a cannon. This also leaves the target with paralysis.
Foresight is a Pokémon move. Resets the target’s evasion to normal and prevents any further boosting until the target leaves the field. A ghost under this effect takes normal damage from normal and fighting moves. This move itself ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. Negates accuracy reduction moves. Negates the foe’s efforts to heighten evasiveness. Completely negates the foe’s efforts to heighten its ability to evade. Enables the user to hit a Ghost type with any type of move. It also enables the user to hit an evasive foe. Enables a Ghost-type target to be hit by Normal- and Fighting-type attacks. It also enables an evasive target to be hit. Enables a Ghost-type target to be hit by Normal- and Fighting-type attacks. This also enables an evasive target to be hit. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Destiny Bond is a Pokémon move. If the user faints before its next move, the Pokémon that fainted it will automatically faint. End-of-turn damage is ignored. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. The foe faints if the user does. If the user faints, the foe is also made to faint. If the user faints, the foe delivering the final hit also faints. When this move is used, if the user faints, the foe that landed the knockout hit also faints. When this move is used, if the user faints, the Pokémon that landed the knockout hit also faints. After using this move, if the user faints, the Pokémon that landed the knockout hit also faints. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. If the user is knocked out after using this move, the Pokémon that knocked it out will also faint. This move's chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Perish Song is a Pokémon move. Every Pokémon is given a counter that starts at 3 and decreases by 1 at the end of every turn, including this one. When a Pokémon’s counter reaches zero, that Pokémon faints. A Pokémon that leaves the field will lose its counter; its replacement does not inherit the effect, and other Pokémon’s counters remain. This effect is passed on by baton pass. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Both user and foe faint in 3 turns. Any POKéMON hearing this song faints in 3 turns. Any battler that hears this faints in three turns unless it switches. Any Pokémon that hears this song faints in three turns unless it switches out of battle. Any Pokémon that hears this song faints in three turns, unless it switches out of battle.
Icy Wind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. An icy attack that lowers SPEED. A chilling attack that lowers the foe’s SPEED. A chilling wind is used to attack. It also lowers the SPEED stat. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. It also lowers the target’s Speed stat. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. It also reduces the targets’ Speed stat. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. This also lowers the opposing Pokémon’s Speed stats. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. This also lowers opposing Pokémon’s Speed stats. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. The user attacks with a gust of chilled air. This also lowers opposing Pokémon's Speed stats.
Detect is a Pokémon move. No moves will hit the user for the remainder of this turn. If the user is last to act this turn, this move will fail. If the user successfully used detect, endure, protect, quick guard, or wide guard on the last turn, this move has a 50% chance to fail. lock on, mind reader, and no guard provide a (100 – accuracy)% chance for moves to break through this move. This does not apply to one-hit KO moves (fissure, guillotine, horn drill, and sheer cold); those are always blocked by this move. thunder during rain dance and blizzard during hail have a 30% chance to break through this move. The following effects are not prevented by this move: * acupressure from an ally * curse’s curse effect * Delayed damage from doom desire and future sight; however, these moves will be prevented if they are used this turn * feint, which will also end this move’s protection after it hits * imprison * perish song * shadow force * Moves that merely copy the user, such as transform or psych up This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. Evades attack that turn. It may fail. Evades attack, but may fail if used in succession. Enables the user to evade all attacks. It may fail if used in succession. It enables the user to evade all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. Enables the user to evade all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. This move enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Bone Rush is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. An attack that hits 2-5 times. Strikes the foe with a bone in hand 2 to 5 times. The user strikes the foe with a bone in hand two to five times. The user strikes at the foe with a hard bone two to five times in a row. The user strikes the target with a hard bone two to five times in a row. The user attacks by striking the target with a hard bone. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Lock On is a Pokémon move. If the user targets the same target again before the end of the next turn, the move it uses is guaranteed to hit. This move itself also ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. One-hit KO moves are also guaranteed to hit, as long as the user is equal or higher level than the target. This effect also allows the user to hit Pokémon that are off the field due to moves such as dig or fly. If the target uses detect or protect while under the effect of this move, the user is not guaranteed to hit, but has a (100 - accuracy)% chance to break through the protection. This effect is passed on by baton pass. Ensures the next attack will hit. Locks on to the foe to ensure the next move hits. The user locks on to the foe, making the next move sure to hit. The user takes sure aim at the foe. It ensures the next attack does not fail to hit the target. The user takes sure aim at the target. It ensures the next attack does not fail to hit the target. The user takes sure aim at the target. This ensures the next attack does not miss the target. The user takes sure aim at the target. This ensures the user's next move does not miss that target.
Outrage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User is forced to attack with this move for 2–3 turns,selected at random. After the last hit, the user becomes confused. safeguard does not protect against the confusion from this move. Works 2-3 turns and confuses user. A rampage of 2 to 3 turns that confuses the user. The user thrashes about for two to three turns, then becomes confused. The user rampages and attacks for two to three turns. However, it then becomes confused. The user rampages and attacks for two to three turns. It then becomes confused, however. The user rampages and attacks for two to three turns. The user then becomes confused. The Pokémon rampages and attacks for two to three turns. It then becomes confused. The user attacks by going on a rampage, then becomes fixated on using this move.
Sandstorm is a Pokémon move. Changes the weather to a sandstorm for five turns. Pokémon that are not ground, rock, or steel take 1/16 their max HP at the end of every turn. Every rock Pokémon’s original Special Defense is raised by 50% for the duration of this effect. solar beam’s power is halved. moonlight, morning sun, and synthesis only heal 1/4 the user’s max HP. Inflicts damage every turn. Causes a sandstorm that rages for several turns. A 5-turn sandstorm that damages all types except ROCK, GROUND, and STEEL. A five-turn sand­ storm is summoned to hurt all combatant types except Rock, Ground, and Steel. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except the Rock, Ground, and Steel types. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except the Rock, Ground, and Steel types. It raises the Sp. Def stat of Rock types. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to hurt all combatants except Rock, Ground, and Steel types. It raises the Sp. Def stat of Rock types. A five-turn sandstorm is summoned to damage all Pokémon except Rock, Ground, and Steel types. The sandstorm also boosts the Sp. Def stats of Rock types.
Giga Drain is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. Steals 1/2 of the damage inflicted. An attack that steals half the damage inflicted. A harsh attack that absorbs half the damage it inflicted to restore HP. A nutrient-draining attack. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. A nutrient-draining attack. The user's HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. A nutrient-draining attack. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Endure is a Pokémon move. The user’s HP cannot be lowered below 1 by any means for the remainder of this turn. If the user successfully used detect, endure, protect, quick guard, or wide guard on the last turn, this move has a 50% chance to fail. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. Always leaves at least 1HP. Endures any attack for 1 turn, leaving at least 1HP. The user endures any hit with 1 HP left. It may fail if used in succession. The user endures any attack, leaving 1 HP. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. The user endures any attack with at least 1 HP. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. The user endures any attack with at least 1 HP. This move's chance of failing rises if used in succession.
Charm is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack by two stages. Sharply lowers the foe's ATTACK. Charms the foe and sharply reduces its ATTACK. The foe is charmed by the user’s cute appeals, sharply cutting its ATTACK. The user charmingly stares at the foe, making it less wary. The target’s Attack is sharply lowered. The user gazes at the target rather charmingly, making it less wary. The target’s Attack is harshly lowered. The user gazes at the target rather charmingly, making it less wary. This harshly lowers its Attack stat. The user gazes at the target rather charmingly, making it less wary. This harshly lowers the target’s Attack stat. The user gazes at the target rather charmingly, making it less wary. This harshly lowers the target's Attack stat.
Rollout is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User is forced to use this move for five turns. Power doubles every time this move is used in succession to a maximum of 16x, and resets to normal after the lock-in ends. If this move misses or becomes unusable, the lock-in ends. If the user has used defense curl since entering the field, this move has double power. Attacks 5 turns with rising power. An attack lasting 5 turns with rising intensity. A 5-turn rolling attack that becomes stronger each time it hits. The user continually rolls into the foe over five turns. It becomes stronger each time it hits. The user continually rolls into the target over five turns. It becomes stronger each time it hits. The user continually rolls into the target over five turns. It becomes more powerful each time it hits. The user rolls into the target to deal damage, then becomes fixated on using this move. The user continually rolls into the target over five turns. This attack becomes more powerful each time it hits.
False Swipe is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Will not reduce the target’s HP below 1. Leaves the foe with at least 1HP. An attack that leaves the foe with at least 1 HP. A restrained attack that always leaves the foe with at least 1 HP. A restrained attack that prevents the foe from fainting. The target is left with at least 1 HP. A restrained attack that prevents the target from fainting. The target is left with at least 1 HP.
Swagger is a Pokémon move. Raises the target’s Attack by two stages, then confuses it. If the target’s Attack cannot be raised by two stages, the confusion is not applied. Causes confusion and raises ATTACK. Confuses the foe, but also sharply raises ATTACK. A move that makes the foe confused, but also sharply raises its ATTACK. The user enrages the foe into confusion. However, it also sharply raises the foe’s Attack stat. The user enrages and confuses the target. However, it also sharply raises the target’s Attack stat. The user enrages and confuses the target. However, this also sharply raises the target’s Attack stat. The user enrages and confuses the target. However, this also sharply raises the target's Attack stat. The user enrages and confuses the target. However, this also sharply boosts the target's Attack stat.
Milk Drink is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. Restores HP by 1/2 the max HP. Recovers up to half the user’s maximum HP. Heals the user by up to half its full HP. It can be used to heal an ally. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its maximum HP. It may also be used to heal an ally’s HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its maximum HP. May also be used in the field to heal HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its max HP. May also be used in the field to heal HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its max HP. The user restores its own HP by up to half its max HP.
Spark is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. An attack that may cause paralysis. An electrified tackle that may paralyze the foe. An electrically charged tackle that may also paralyze the foe. The user throws an electrically charged tackle at the foe. It may also leave the target paralyzed. The user throws an electrically charged tackle at the target. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The user throws an electrically charged tackle at the target. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user throws an electrically charged tackle at the target to deal damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user attacks the target with an electrically charged tackle. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Fury Cutter is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power doubles after every time this move is used, whether consecutively or not, maxing out at 16x. If this move misses or the user leaves the field, power resets. Successive hits raise power. An attack that intensifies on each successive hit. An attack that grows stronger on each successive hit. The foe is slashed with scythes or claws. Its power increases if it hits in succession. The target is slashed with scythes or claws. Its power increases if it hits in succession. The target is slashed with scythes or claws. This attack becomes more powerful if it hits in succession. The user attacks by slashing the target with scythes, claws, or the like. This attack becomes more powerful if it hits in succession.
Steel Wing is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a 10% chance to raise the user’s Defense one stage. Stiff wings strike the foe. Strikes the foe with hard wings spread wide. The foe is hit with wings of steel. It may also raise the user’s DEFENSE. The foe is hit with wings of steel. It may also raise the user’s Defense stat. The target is hit with wings of steel. It may also raise the user’s Defense stat. The target is hit with wings of steel. This may also raise the user’s Defense stat. The target is hit with wings of steel. This may also raise the user's Defense stat. The target is hit with wings of steel. This may also boost the user's Defense stat.
Mean Look is a Pokémon move. The target cannot switch out normally. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This effect ends when the user leaves the field. The target may still escape by using baton pass, u turn, or a shed shell. Both the user and the target pass on this effect with baton pass. Prevents fleeing or switching. Fixes the foe with a mean look that prevents escape. The foe is fixed with a mean look that prevents it from escaping. The user affixes the foe with a dark, arresting look. The target becomes unable to flee. The user pins the target with a dark, arresting look. The target becomes unable to flee.
Attract is a Pokémon move. Causes the target to fall in love with the user, giving it a 50% chance to do nothing each turn. If the user and target are the same gender, or either is genderless, this move will fail. If either Pokémon leaves the field, this effect ends. Makes the opposite gender infatuated. Makes the opposite gender less likely to attack. If it is the other gender, the foe is made infatuated and unlikely to attack. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the foe becomes infatuated and less likely to attack. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the target becomes infatuated and less likely to attack. If the target is of the opposite gender to the user, it becomes infatuated with the user and will sometimes be unable to use its moves.
Sleep Talk is a Pokémon move. Only usable if the user is sleeping. Randomly selects and uses one of the user’s other three moves. Use of the selected move requires and costs 0 PP. This move will not select assist, bide, bounce, chatter, copycat, dig, dive, fly, focus punch, me first, metronome, mirror move, shadow force, skull bash, sky attack, sky drop, sleep talk, solar beam, razor wind, or uproar. If the selected move requires a recharge turn—i.e., one of blast burn, frenzy plant, giga impact, hydro cannon, hyper beam, roar of time, or rock wrecker—and the user is still sleeping next turn, then it’s forced to use this move again and pay another PP for the recharge turn. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk. Randomly attacks while asleep. Uses an own move randomly while asleep. Uses an available move randomly while asleep. While asleep, the user randomly uses one of the moves it knows. While it is asleep, the user randomly uses one of the moves it knows. The user randomly uses one of the moves it knows. This move can only be used while the user is asleep.
Heal Bell is a Pokémon move. Removes major status effects and confusion from every Pokémon in the user’s party. Eliminates all status problems. Chimes soothingly to heal all status abnormalities. A soothing bell chimes to heal the status problems of all allies. The user makes a soothing bell chime to heal the status problems of all the party Pokémon. The user makes a soothing bell chime to heal the status conditions of all the party Pokémon. The user makes a soothing bell chime to cure the status conditions of all its fellow party Pokémon and allies.
Return is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases with happiness, given by `happiness * 2 / 5`, to a maximum of 102. Power bottoms out at 1. An attack that is based on loyalty. An attack that increases in power with friendship. This attack move grows more powerful the more the user likes its TRAINER. A full-power attack that grows more powerful the more the user likes its Trainer. This full-power attack grows more powerful the more the user likes its Trainer. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Present is a Pokémon move. Randomly uses one of the following effects. Effect | Chance -------------------------------------------------- | -----: Inflicts regular damage with 40 power | 40% Inflicts regular damage with 80 power | 30% Inflicts regular damage with 120 power | 10% Heals the target for 1/4 its max HP | 20% On average, this move inflicts regular damage with 52 power and heals the target for 1/20 its max HP. A bomb that may restore HP. A gift in the form of a bomb. May restore HP. The foe is given a booby-trapped gift. It restores HP sometimes, however. The user attacks by giving the foe a booby-trapped gift. It restores HP sometimes, however. The user attacks by giving the target a gift with a hidden trap. It restores HP sometimes, however. The user attacks by giving the target a gift with a hidden trap. The gift restores HP sometimes, however.
Frustration is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases inversely with happiness, given by `(255 - happiness) * 2 / 5`, to a maximum of 102. Power bottoms out at 1. An attack based on lack of loyalty. An attack that is stronger if the TRAINER is disliked. This attack move grows more powerful the less the user likes its TRAINER. A full-power attack that grows more powerful the less the user likes its Trainer. This full-power attack grows more powerful the less the user likes its Trainer. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Safeguard is a Pokémon move. Protects Pokémon on the user’s side of the field from major status effects and confusion for five turns. Does not cancel existing ailments. This effect remains even if the user leaves the field. If yawn is used while this move is in effect, it will immediately fail. defog used by an opponent will end this effect. This effect does not prevent the confusion caused by outrage, petal dance, or thrash. Prevents all status problems. A mystical force prevents all status problems. It protects the user’s party from all status problems for five turns. The user creates a protective field that prevents status problems for five turns. The user creates a protective field that prevents status conditions for five turns.
Pain Split is a Pokémon move. Changes the user’s and target’s remaining HP to the average of their current remaining HP. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This effect does not count as inflicting damage for other moves and effects that respond to damage taken. This effect fails against a substitute. Adds user & foe's HPs. Shares total. Adds the user and foe’s HP, then shares them equally. The user adds its HP to the foe’s HP, then equally shares the total HP. The user adds its HP to the foe’s HP, then equally shares the combined HP with the foe. The user adds its HP to the target’s HP, then equally shares the combined HP with the target. The user adds its HP to the target's HP, then equally shares the combined HP with the target. The user adds its HP to the target's HP, then equally splits the combined HP between the target and itself.
Sacred Fire is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. Frozen Pokémon may use this move, in which case they will thaw. An attack that may inflict a burn. A mystical fire attack that may inflict a burn. A mystical and powerful fire attack that may inflict a burn. The foe is razed with a mystical fire of great intensity. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is razed with a mystical fire of great intensity. It may also leave the target with a burn. The target is razed with a mystical fire of great intensity. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Magnitude is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power is selected at random between 10 and 150, with an average of 71: Magnitude | Power | Chance --------: | ----: | -----: 4 | 10 | 5% 5 | 30 | 10% 6 | 50 | 20% 7 | 70 | 30% 8 | 90 | 20% 9 | 110 | 10% 10 | 150 | 5% This move has double power against Pokémon currently underground due to dig. A ground attack with random power. A ground-shaking attack of random intensity. A ground-shaking attack against all standing POKéMON. Its power varies. The user looses a ground-shaking quake affecting everyone in battle. Its power varies. The user looses a ground-shaking quake affecting everyone around the user. Its power varies. The user attacks everything around it with a ground-shaking quake. Its power varies. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Dynamic Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. An attack that always confuses. Powerful and sure to cause confusion, but inaccurate. The foe is punched with the user’s full power. It confuses the foe if it hits. The foe is punched with the user’s full, concentrated power. It confuses the foe if it hits. The user punches the target with full, concentrated power. It confuses the target if it hits. The user punches the target with full, concentrated power. This confuses the target if it hits. The user attacks by punching the target with full concentrated power. This also confuses the target.
Megahorn is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A powerful charge attack. A brutal ramming attack using out-thrust horns. A brutal ramming attack delivered with a tough and impressive horn. Utilizing its tough and impressive horn, the user rams into the foe with no letup. Using its tough and impressive horn, the user rams into the foe with no letup. Using its tough and impressive horn, the user rams into the target with no letup. Using its tough and impressive horn, the user rams into the target to inflict damage.
Dragon Breath is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. A strong breath attack. Strikes the foe with an incredible blast of breath. The foe is hit with an incredible blast of breath that may also paralyze. The user exhales a mighty gust that inflicts damage. It may also paralyze the target. The user exhales a mighty gust that inflicts damage. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The user exhales a mighty gust that inflicts damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Baton Pass is a Pokémon move. User switches out, and the trainer selects a replacement Pokémon from the party. Stat changes, confusion, and persistent move effects are passed along to the replacement Pokémon. The following move effects are passed: * aqua ring * both the user’s and target’s effect of block, mean look, and spider web * the curse effect of curse * embargo * focus energy or an activated lansat berry * gastro acid * ingrain * being sapped by leech seed * being targeted by lock on or mind reader * magnet rise * perish song’s counter * power trick * substitute; the doll’s HP is unchanged The replacement Pokémon does not trigger effects that respond to Pokémon switching in. Switches while keeping effects. Switches out the user while keeping effects in play. The user switches out, passing along any stat changes to the new battler. The user switches places with a party Pokémon in waiting, passing along any stat changes. The user switches places with a party Pokémon in waiting and passes along any stat changes.
Encore is a Pokémon move. The next 4–8 times (selected at random) the target attempts to move, it is forced to repeat its last used move. If the selected move allows the trainer to select a target, an opponent will be selected at random each turn. If the target is prevented from using the selected move by some other effect, struggle will be used instead. This effect ends if the selected move runs out of PP. If the target hasn’t used a move since entering the field, if it tried to use a move this turn and failed, if it does not know the selected move, or if the selected move has 0 PP remaining, this move will fail. If the target’s last used move was encore, mimic, mirror move, sketch, struggle, or transform, this move will fail. Makes the foe re­ peat 2-6 times. Makes the foe repeat its last move over 2 to 6 turns. Makes the foe use the move it last used repeatedly for two to six turns. The user compels the foe to keep using only the move it last used for two to six turns. The user compels the foe to keep using only the move it last used for three to seven turns. The user compels the target to keep using only the move it last used for three turns. The user compels the target to keep using the move it encored for three turns.
Pursuit is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target attempts to switch out this turn before the user acts, this move hits the target before it leaves and has double power. This effect can still hit a Pokémon that switches out when it has a substitute up or when an ally has used follow me. Heavily strikes switching POKéMON. Inflicts bad damage if used on a foe switching out. An attack move that works especially well on a foe that is switching out. An attack move that inflicts double damage if used on a foe that is switching out of battle. An attack move that inflicts double damage if used on a target that is switching out of battle. The power of this attack move is doubled if it’s used on a target that’s switching out of battle. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Rapid Spin is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Removes leech seed from the user, frees the user from bind, clamp, fire spin, magma storm, sand tomb, whirlpool, and wrap, and clears spikes, stealth rock, and toxic spikes from the user’s side of the field. If this move misses or has no effect, its effect doesn’t activate. A high-speed spinning attack. Spins the body at high speed to strike the foe. An attack that frees the user from BIND, WRAP, LEECH SEED, and SPIKES. A spin attack that can also eliminate such moves as Bind, Wrap, Leech Seed, and Spikes. A spin attack that can also eliminate such moves as Bind, Wrap, and Leech Seed. This also raises the user’s Speed stat. A spin attack that can also eliminate such moves as Bind, Wrap, and Leech Seed. This also raises the user's Speed stat. The user performs a spin attack that can also eliminate the effects of such moves as Bind, Wrap, and Leech Seed. This also boosts the user's Speed stat.
Sweet Scent is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s evasion by one stage. Reduces the foe's evasiveness. Allures the foe to reduce evasiveness. Allures the foe to reduce evasiveness. It also attracts wild POKéMON. A sweet scent that lowers the foe’s evasiveness. It also lures wild Pokémon if used in grass, etc. A sweet scent that lowers the opposing team’s evasiveness. It also lures wild Pokémon if used in grass, etc. A sweet scent that harshly lowers opposing Pokémon’s evasiveness. This also lures wild Pokémon if used in places such as tall grass. A sweet scent that harshly lowers opposing Pokémon’s evasiveness. A sweet scent that harshly lowers opposing Pokémon's evasiveness. The user releases a scent that harshly lowers opposing Pokémon's evasiveness.
Iron Tail is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. An attack that may reduce DEFENSE. Attacks with a rock-hard tail. May lower DEFENSE. An attack with a steel-hard tail. It may lower the foe’s DEFENSE stat. The foe is slammed with a steel-hard tail. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The target is slammed with a steel-hard tail. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The target is slammed with a steel-hard tail. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The target is slammed with a steel-hard tail. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The target is slammed with a steel-hard tail. This may also lower the target's Defense stat.
Metal Claw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise the user’s Attack one stage. An attack that may up user's ATTACK. A claw attack that may raise the user’s ATTACK. The foe is attacked with steel claws. It may also raise the user’s ATTACK. The foe is raked with steel claws. It may also raise the user’s Attack stat. The target is raked with steel claws. It may also raise the user’s Attack stat. The target is raked with steel claws. This may also raise the user’s Attack stat. The target is raked with steel claws. This may also raise the user's Attack stat. The target is raked with steel claws. This may also boost the user's Attack stat.
Vital Throw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. A 2nd-strike move that never misses. Makes the user’s move last, but it never misses. Makes the user attack after the foe. In return, it will not miss. The user allows the foe to attack first. In return, this throw move is guaranteed not to miss. The user attacks last. In return, this throw move is guaranteed not to miss. The user attacks last. In return, this throw move never misses.
Morning Sun is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. During sunny day, the healing is increased to 2/3 max HP. During hail, rain dance, or sandstorm, the healing is decreased to 1/4 max HP. Restores HP (varies by time). Restores HP. The amount varies with the weather. Restores the user’s HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather. The user restores its own HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather.
Synthesis is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. During sunny day, the healing is increased to 2/3 max HP. During hail, rain dance, or sandstorm, the healing is decreased to 1/4 max HP. Restores HP (varies by time). Restores HP. The amount varies with the weather. Restores the user’s HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather. The user restores its own HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather.
Moonlight is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. During sunny day, the healing is increased to 2/3 max HP. During hail, rain dance, or sandstorm, the healing is decreased to 1/4 max HP. Restores HP (varies by time). Restores HP. The amount varies with the weather. Restores the user’s HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather. The user restores its own HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather.
Hidden Power is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power and type are determined by the user’s IVs. Power is given by `x * 40 / 63 + 30`. `x` is obtained by arranging bit 1 from the IV for each of Special Defense, Special Attack, Speed, Defense, Attack, and HP in that order. (Bit 1 is 1 if the IV is of the form `4n + 2` or `4n + 3`. `x` is then 64 * Special Defense IV bit 1, plus 32 * Special Attack IV bit 1, etc.) Power is always between 30 and 70, inclusive. Average power is 49.5. Type is given by `y * 15 / 63`, where `y` is similar to `x` above, except constructed from bit 0. (Bit 0 is 1 if the IV is odd.) The result is looked up in the following table. Value | Type ----: | -------- 0 | fighting 1 | flying 2 | poison 3 | ground 4 | rock 5 | bug 6 | ghost 7 | steel 8 | fire 9 | water 10 | grass 11 | electric 12 | psychic 13 | ice 14 | dragon 15 | dark This move thus cannot be normal. Most other types have an equal 1/16 chance to be selected, given random IVs. However, due to the flooring used here, bug, fighting, and grass appear 5/64 of the time, and dark only 1/64 of the time. The power varies with the POKéMON. The effectiveness varies with the user. An attack that varies in type and intensity depending on the user. A unique attack that varies in type and intensity depending on the Pokémon using it. A unique attack that varies in type depending on the Pokémon using it. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Cross Chop is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a high criti­ cal hit ratio. A double-chopping attack. High critical-hit ratio. The foe is hit with double chops. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user delivers a double chop with its forearms crossed. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user delivers a double chop with its forearms crossed. Critical hits land more easily. The user delivers a double chop with its forearms crossed. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Twister is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make each target flinch. If the target is under the effect of bounce, fly, or sky drop, this move will hit with double power. Whips up a tornado to attack. Whips up a vicious twister to tear at the foe. A vicious twister attacks the foe. It may make the foe flinch. The user whips up a vicious twister to tear at the foe. It may also make the foe flinch. The user whips up a vicious tornado to tear at the foe. It may also make the foe flinch. The user whips up a vicious tornado to tear at the opposing team. It may also make targets flinch. The user whips up a vicious tornado to tear at the opposing Pokémon. This may also make them flinch. The user whips up a vicious tornado to tear at opposing Pokémon. This may also make them flinch. The user whips up a vicious tornado to tear at the target.
Rain Dance is a Pokémon move. Changes the weather to rain for five turns, during which water moves inflict 50% extra damage, and fire moves inflict half damage. If the user is holding damp rock, this effect lasts for eight turns. thunder has 100% accuracy. If the target has used detect or protect, thunder has a (100 - accuracy)% chance to break through the protection. solar beam has half power. moonlight, morning sun, and synthesis heal only 1/4 of the user’s max HP. Pokémon with swift swim have doubled original Speed. Pokémon with forecast become water. Pokémon with dry skin heal 1/8 max HP, Pokémon with hydration are cured of major status effects, and Pokémon with rain dish heal 1/16 max HP at the end of each turn. Boosts the power of WATER- type moves for 5 turns. Boosts water-type moves for 5 turns. A heavy rain falls for five turns, powering up WATER- type moves. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water- type moves. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water-type moves. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water-type moves. It lowers the power of Fire-type moves. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns, powering up Water-type attacks. The rain also lowers the power of Fire-type attacks.
Sunny Day is a Pokémon move. Changes the weather to sunshine for five turns, during which fire moves inflict 50% extra damage, and water moves inflict half damage. If the user is holding heat rock, this effect lasts for eight turns. Pokémon cannot become frozen. thunder has 50% accuracy. solar beam skips its charge turn. moonlight, morning sun, and synthesis heal 2/3 of the user’s max HP. Pokémon with chlorophyll have doubled original Speed. Pokémon with forecast become fire. Pokémon with leaf guard are not affected by major status effects. Pokémon with flower gift change form; every Pokémon on their side of the field have their original Attack and Special Attack increased by 50%. Pokémon with dry skin lose 1/8 max HP at the end of each turn. Pokémon with solar power have their original Special Attack raised by 50% but lose 1/8 their max HP at the end of each turn. Boosts fire-type moves for 5 turns. Boosts the power of FIRE- type moves for 5 turns. The sun blazes for five turns, powering up FIRE-type moves. The user intensifies the sun for five turns, powering up Fire-type moves. The user intensifies the sun for five turns, powering up Fire-type moves. It lowers the power of Water-type moves. The user intensifies the sun for five turns, powering up Fire-type attacks. The sunlight also lowers the power of Water-type attacks.
Crunch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. An attack that may lower SPCL.DEF. Crunches with sharp fangs. May lower SP. DEF. The foe is crunched with sharp fangs. It may lower the foe’s SP. DEF. The user crunches up the foe with sharp fangs. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user crunches up the target with sharp fangs. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user crunches up the target with sharp fangs. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user crunches up the target with sharp fangs. This may also lower the target's defensive stats. The user crunches up the target with sharp fangs. This may also lower the target's Defense stat.
Mirror Coat is a Pokémon move. Targets the last opposing Pokémon to hit the user with a special move this turn. Inflicts twice the damage that move did to the user. If there is no eligible target, this move will fail. Type immunity applies, but other type effects are ignored. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome. Counters a SPCL. ATK. move double. Counters a SPCL. ATK move double. Counters the foe’s special attack at double the power. A retaliation move that pays back the foe’s special attack double. A retaliation move that counters any special attack, inflicting double the damage taken. A retaliatory attack that counters any special move, inflicting double the damage taken.
Psych Up is a Pokémon move. Discards the user’s stat changes and copies the target’s. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Copies the foe's stat changes. Copies the foe’s effect(s) and gives to the user. The user hypnotizes itself into copying any stat change made by the foe. The user hypnotizes itself into copying any stat change made by the target.
Extreme Speed is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A powerful first- strike move. An extremely fast and powerful attack. A blindingly speedy charge attack that always goes before any other. The user charges the foe at blinding speed. This attack always goes before any other move. The user charges the target at blinding speed. This attack always goes before any other move. The user charges the target at blinding speed. This move always goes first.
Ancient Power is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise all of the user’s stats one stage. An attack that may raise all stats. An ancient power is used to attack. It may also raise all the user’s stats. The user attacks with a prehistoric power. It may also raise all the user’s stats at once. The user attacks with a prehistoric power. This may also raise all the user’s stats at once. The user attacks with a primeval power. This may also raise the user's offensive and defensive stats. The user attacks with a prehistoric power. This may also boost all the user's stats at once.
Shadow Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. An attack that may lower SPCL.DEF. Hurls a black blob that may lower the foe’s SP. DEF. A shadowy blob is hurled at the foe. May also lower the foe’s SP. DEF. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the foe. It may also lower the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user hurls a shadowy blob at the target to deal damage. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user attacks by hurling a shadowy blob at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Future Sight is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless regular damage at the end of the third turn, starting with this one. This move cannot score a critical hit. If the target switches out, its replacement will be hit instead. Damage is calculated at the time this move is used; stat changes and switching out during the delay won’t change the damage inflicted. No move with this effect can be used against the same target again until after the end of the third turn. This effect breaks through wonder guard. If the target is protected by protect or detect on the turn this move is used, this move will fail. However, the damage on the third turn will break through protection. The damage is applied at the end of the turn, so it ignores endure and focus sash. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. An attack that hits on 3rd turn. Heightens inner power to strike 2 turns later. Two turns after this move is used, the foe is attacked psychically. Two turns after this move is used, the foe is attacked with a hunk of psychic energy. Two turns after this move is used, a hunk of psychic energy attacks the target.
Rock Smash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. An attack that may lower DEFENSE. A rock-crushing attack that may lower DEFENSE. An attack that may also cut DEFENSE. It can also smash cracked boulders. The user slugs the foe with a shattering punch. It can also smash cracked boulders. The user hits with a punch that may lower the target’s Defense. It can also smash cracked boulders. The user attacks with a punch that can shatter a rock. It may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user attacks with a punch. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. This move can also shatter rocks in the field. The user attacks with a punch. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user attacks with a punch. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user attacks with a punch. This may also lower the target's Defense stat.
Whirlpool is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. If the target is in the first turn of dive, this move will hit with double power. Traps the foe for 2-5 turns. Traps and hurts the foe in a whirlpool for 2 to 5 turns. The foe is trapped in a fast, vicious whirlpool for two to five turns. The user traps the foe inside a fast, vicious whirlpool that lasts for two to five turns. Traps the foe inside a whirlpool that lasts for two to five turns. The user can pass through whirlpools. Traps foes in a violent swirling whirlpool for four to five turns. The user traps the target in a violent swirling whirlpool for four to five turns. The user traps the target inside a violent, swirling whirlpool that inflicts damage for four to five turns.
Beat Up is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless regular damage. Every Pokémon in the user’s party, excepting those that have fainted or have a major status effect, attacks the target. Calculated stats are ignored; the base stats for the target and assorted attackers are used instead. The random factor in the damage formula is not used. dark Pokémon still get STAB. This effect breaks through wonder guard. Party POKéMON join in the attack. Summons party POKéMON to join in the attack. All party POKéMON join in the attack. The more allies, the more damage. The user gets all the party Pokémon to attack the foe. The more party Pokémon, the more damage. The user gets all party Pokémon to attack the target. The more party Pokémon, the greater the number of attacks.
Fake Out is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Causes the target to flinch. Can only be used on the user’s first turn after entering the field. A 1st-turn, 1st-strike move that causes flinching. An attack that hits first and causes flinching. Usable only on 1st turn. An attack that hits first and makes the target flinch. This move works only on the first turn. An attack that hits first and makes the target flinch. It only works the first turn the user is in battle. This attack hits first and makes the target flinch. It only works the first turn the user is in battle. This attack hits first and makes the target flinch. It only works the first turn each time the user enters battle. This attack hits first and makes the target flinch. It works only on the first turn each time the user enters battle.
Uproar is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User is forced to use this move for 2–5 turns, selected at random. All Pokémon on the field wake up, and none can fall to sleep until the lock-in ends. Pokémon cannot use rest during this effect. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. Causes an uproar for 2 to 5 turns and prevents sleep. The user attacks in an uproar that prevents sleep for two to five turns. The user attacks in an uproar for two to five turns. Over that time, no one can fall asleep. The user attacks in an uproar for three turns. Over that time, no one can fall asleep. The user attacks in an uproar for three turns. During that time, no one can fall asleep. The user attacks in an uproar for three turns. During that time, no Pokémon can fall asleep.
Stockpile is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense and Special Defense by one stage each. Stores energy for use with spit up and swallow. Up to three levels of energy can be stored, and all are lost if the user leaves the field. Energy is still stored even if the stat boosts cannot be applied. If the user uses baton pass, the stat boosts are passed as normal, but the stored energy is not. Charges up power for up to 3 turns. The user charges up power for use later. It can be used three times. The user charges up power, and raises both its Defense and Sp. Def. The move can be used three times. The user charges up power and raises both its Defense and Sp. Def. The move can be used three times. The user charges up power and raises both its Defense and Sp. Def stats. The move can be used three times. The user stores power and boosts its Defense and Sp. Def stats. This move can be used up to three times.
Spit Up is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power is equal to 100 times the amount of energy stored by stockpile. Ignores the random factor in the damage formula. Stored energy is consumed, and the user’s Defense and Special Defense are reset to what they would be if stockpile had not been used. If the user has no energy stored, this move will fail. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Releases stockpiled power (the more the better). The power built using STOCKPILE is released at once for attack. The power stored using the move Stockpile is released at once in an attack. The power stored using the move Stockpile is released at once in an attack. The more power is stored, the greater the damage. The power stored using the move Stockpile is released at once in an attack. The more power is stored, the greater the move’s power. The power stored using the move Stockpile is released at once in an attack. The more power is stored, the greater the move's power.
Swallow is a Pokémon move. Heals the user depending on the amount of energy stored by stockpile: 1/4 its max HP after one use, 1/2 its max HP after two uses, or fully after three uses. Stored energy is consumed, and the user’s Defense and Special Defense are reset to what they would be if stockpile had not been used. If the user has no energy stored, this move will fail. Absorbs stockpiled power and restores HP. The energy it built using STOCKPILE is absorbed to restore HP. The power stored using the move Stockpile is absorbed by the user to heal its HP. The power stored using the move Stockpile is absorbed by the user to heal its HP. Storing more power heals more HP. The power stored using the move Stockpile is absorbed by the user to restore its own HP. The more power is stored, the more HP is restored.
Heat Wave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. Exhales a hot breath on the foe. May inflict a burn. The user exhales a heated breath to attack. It may also inflict a burn. The user exhales a heated breath on the foe to attack. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user attacks by exhaling hot breath on the opposing team. It may also leave targets with a burn. The user attacks by exhaling hot breath on the opposing Pokémon. This may also leave those Pokémon with a burn. The user attacks by exhaling hot breath on opposing Pokémon. This may also leave those Pokémon with a burn. The user attacks by exhaling hot breath on opposing Pokémon. This may also leave them with a burn.
Hail is a Pokémon move. Changes the weather to hail for five turns, during which non-ice Pokémon are damaged for 1/16 their max HP at the end of every turn. If the user is holding icy rock, this effect lasts for eight turns. blizzard has 100% accuracy. If the target has used detect or protect, blizzard has a (100 - accuracy)% chance to break through the protection. moonlight, morning sun, and synthesis heal only 1/4 of the user’s max HP. Pokémon with snow cloak are exempt from this effect’s damage. Summons a hailstorm that strikes every turn. A hailstorm lasting five turns damages all POKéMON except the ICE-type. The user summons a hailstorm lasting five turns. It damages all Pokémon except the Ice type. The user summons a hailstorm lasting five turns. It damages all Pokémon except Ice types.
Torment is a Pokémon move. Prevents the target from attempting to use the same move twice in a row. When the target leaves the field, this effect ends. If the target is forced to attempt a repeated move due to choice band, choice scarf, choice specs, disable, encore, taunt, only having PP remaining for one move, or any other effect, the target will use struggle instead. The target is then free to use the forced move next turn, as it didn’t use that move this turn. Torments the foe and stops successive use of a move. It enrages the foe, making it incapable of using the same move successively. The user torments and enrages the foe, making it incapable of using the same move twice in a row. The user torments and enrages the target, making it incapable of using the same move twice in a row.
Flatter is a Pokémon move. Raises the target’s Special Attack by one stage, then confuses it. Confuses the foe, but raises its SP. ATK. Flattery is used to confuse the foe, but its SP. ATK also rises. Flattery is used to confuse the foe. However, it also raises the target’s Sp. Atk stat. Flattery is used to confuse the target. However, it also raises the target’s Sp. Atk stat. Flattery is used to confuse the target. However, this also raises the target’s Sp. Atk stat. Flattery is used to confuse the target. However, this also raises the target's Sp. Atk stat. Flattery is used to confuse the target. However, this also boosts the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Will O Wisp is a Pokémon move. Burns the target. Inflicts a burn on the foe with intense fire. A sinister, bluish white flame is shot at the foe to inflict a burn. The user shoots a sinister, bluish white flame at the foe to inflict a burn. The user shoots a sinister, bluish-white flame at the target to inflict a burn. The user shoots a sinister flame at the target to inflict a burn.
Memento is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack and Special Attack by two stages. User faints. The user faints and lowers the foe’s abilities. The user faints, but sharply lowers the foe’s ATTACK and SP. ATK. The user faints upon using this move. In return, it sharply lowers the target’s Attack and Sp. Atk. The user faints when using this move. In return, it harshly lowers the target’s Attack and Sp. Atk. The user faints when using this move. In return, this harshly lowers the target’s Attack and Sp. Atk stats. The user faints when using this move. In return, this harshly lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats. The user faints. In return, the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats are harshly lowered.
Facade is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user is burned, paralyzed, or poisoned, this move has double power. Boosts ATTACK when burned, paralyzed, or poisoned. An attack that is boosted if user is burned, poisoned, or paralyzed. An attack move that doubles its power if the user is poisoned, paralyzed, or has a burn. An attack move that doubles its power if the user is poisoned, burned, or has paralysis. This attack move doubles its power if the user is poisoned, burned, or paralyzed. This move's power is doubled if the user is poisoned, burned, or paralyzed.
Focus Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user takes damage this turn before hitting, this move will fail. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk. A powerful loyalty attack. The user flinches if hit. An attack that is executed last. The user flinches if hit beforehand. The user focuses its mind before launching a punch. It will fail if the user is hit before it is used. The user focuses its mind before launching a punch. This move fails if the user is hit before it is used. The user focuses its mind before launching a punch. This move fails if the user is hit before using the move.
Smelling Salts is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is paralyzed, this move has double power, and the target is cured of its paralysis. Powerful against paralyzed foes, but also heals them. Doubly effective on a paralyzed foe, but it also cures the foe’s paralysis. This attack inflicts double damage on a paralyzed foe. It also cures the foe’s paralysis, however. This attack inflicts double damage on a target with paralysis. It also cures the target’s paralysis, however. This attack inflicts double damage on a target with paralysis. This also cures the target’s paralysis, however. This attack’s power is doubled when used on a target with paralysis. This also cures the target’s paralysis, however. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Follow Me is a Pokémon move. Until the end of this turn, any moves that opposing Pokémon target solely at the user’s ally will instead target the user. If both Pokémon on the same side of the field use this move on the same turn, the Pokémon that uses it last will become the target. This effect takes priority over lightning rod and storm drain. If the user’s ally switches out, opposing Pokémon may still hit it with pursuit. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. Draws attention to make foes attack only the user. The user draws attention to itself, making foes attack only the user. The user draws attention to itself, making all foes take aim only at the user. The user draws attention to itself, making all targets take aim only at the user. The user draws attention to itself, making all opposing Pokémon take aim only at the user.
Nature Power is a Pokémon move. Uses another move chosen according to the terrain. Terrain | Selected move ------------------------- | ------------------ Building | tri attack Cave | rock slide Deep water | hydro pump Desert | earthquake Grass | seed bomb Mountain | rock slide Road | earthquake Shallow water | hydro pump Snow | blizzard Tall grass | seed bomb electric terrain | thunderbolt grassy terrain | energy ball misty terrain | moonblast In Pokémon Battle Revolution: Terrain | Selected move -------------- | ------------------ Courtyard | tri attack Crystal | rock slide Gateway | hydro pump Magma | rock slide Main Street | tri attack Neon | tri attack Stargazer | rock slide Sunny Park | seed bomb Sunset | earthquake Waterfall | seed bomb This move cannot be copied by mirror move. The type of attack varies depending on the location. An attack that changes type depending on the user’s location. An attack that makes use of nature’s power. Its effects vary depending on the user’s environment. This attack makes use of nature’s power. Its effects vary depending on the user’s environment.
Charge is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Special Defense by one stage. If the user uses an electric move next turn, its power will be doubled. Charges power to boost the electric move used next. The user charges power to boost the ELECTRIC move it uses next. The user boosts the power of the Electric move it uses next. It also raises the user’s Sp. Def stat. The user boosts the power of the Electric move it uses on the next turn. It also raises the user’s Sp. Def stat. The user boosts the power of the Electric move it uses on the next turn. This also raises the user’s Sp. Def stat. The user boosts the power of the Electric move it uses on the next turn. This also raises the user's Sp. Def stat. The user becomes charged, boosting the power of the next Electric-type move it uses. This also boosts the user's Sp. Def stat.
Taunt is a Pokémon move. Target is forced to only use damaging moves for the next 3–5 turns, selected at random. Moves that select other moves not known in advance do not count as damaging. assist, copycat, me first, metronome, mirror move, and sleep talk do not directly inflict damage and thus may not be used. bide, counter, endeavor, metal burst, and mirror coat are allowed. Taunts the foe into only using attack moves. The foe is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves. The foe is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves for two to four turns. The target is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves for three turns.
Helping Hand is a Pokémon move. Boosts the power of the target’s moves by 50% until the end of this turn. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome. A move that boosts the power of the ally’s attack in a Double Battle. Boosts the power of the recipient’s moves. A move that boosts the power of the ally’s attack in a battle. The user assists an ally by boosting the power of its attack. The user assists an ally by boosting the power of that ally’s attack. The user assists an ally by boosting the power of that ally's attack.
Trick is a Pokémon move. User and target permanently swap held items. Works even if one of the Pokémon isn’t holding anything. If either Pokémon is holding mail, this move will fail. If either Pokémon has multitype or sticky hold, this move will fail. If this move results in a Pokémon obtaining choice band, choice scarf, or choice specs, and that Pokémon was the latter of the pair to move this turn, then the move it used this turn becomes its chosen forced move. This applies even if both Pokémon had a choice item before this move was used. If the first of the two Pokémon gains a choice item, it may select whatever choice move it wishes next turn. Neither the user nor the target can recover its item with recycle. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. Tricks the foe into trading held items. A move that tricks the foe into trading held items with the user. The user catches the foe off guard and swaps the foe’s held item with its own. The user catches the target off guard and swaps its held item with its own. The user catches the target off guard and swaps the target's held item with its own.
Role Play is a Pokémon move. User’s ability is replaced with the target’s until the user leaves the field. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. If the target has flower gift, forecast, illusion, imposter, multitype, stance change, trace, wonder guard, or zen mode, this move will fail. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Mimics the target and copies its special ability. The user mimics the foe completely and copies the foe’s ability. The user mimics the foe completely, copying the foe’s natural ability. The user mimics the target completely, copying the target’s natural Ability. The user mimics the target completely, copying the target’s Ability. The user mimics the target completely, copying the target's Ability.
Wish is a Pokémon move. At the end of the next turn, user will be healed for half its max HP. If the user is switched out, its replacement will be healed instead for half of the user’s max HP. If the user faints or is forcefully switched by roar or whirlwind, this effect will not activate. A wish that restores HP. It takes time to work. A self-healing move that restores half the full HP on the next turn. A self-healing move. The user restores its own HP by up to half of its maximum HP in the next turn. One turn after this move is used, the target’s HP is restored by half the user’s maximum HP. One turn after this move is used, the target’s HP is restored by half the user’s max HP. One turn after this move is used, the user’s or its replacement’s HP is restored by half the user’s max HP. One turn after this move is used, the user's or its replacement's HP is restored by half the user's max HP. One turn after this move is used, the user's or its replacement's HP is restored by up to half the user's max HP.
Assist is a Pokémon move. Uses a move from another Pokémon in the user’s party, both selected at random. Moves from fainted Pokémon can be used. If there are no eligible Pokémon or moves, this move will fail. This move will not select assist, chatter, circle throw, copycat, counter, covet, destiny bond, detect, dig, dive, dragon tail, endure, feint, fly focus punch, follow me, helping hand, me first, metronome, mimic, mirror coat, mirror move, phantom force protect, quick guard, roar shadow force, sketch, sleep talk, snatch, struggle, switcheroo, thief, trick, whirlwind, or wide guard. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by metronome or sleep talk. Attacks randomly with one of the partner’s moves. The user randomly picks and uses a move of an allied POKéMON. The user hurriedly and randomly uses a move among those known by other Pokémon in the party. The user hurriedly and randomly uses a move among those known by ally Pokémon. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Ingrain is a Pokémon move. Prevents the user from switching out. User regains 1/16 of its max HP at the end of every turn. If the user was immune to ground attacks, it will now take normal damage from them. roar and whirlwind will not affect the user. The user cannot use magnet rise. The user may still use u turn to leave the field. This effect can be passed with baton pass. Lays roots that restore HP. The user can’t switch out. The user lays roots that restore HP on every turn. It can’t switch out. The user lays roots that restore HP on every turn. Because it is rooted, it can’t switch out. The user lays roots that restore its HP on every turn. Because it is rooted, it can’t switch out. The user lays roots that restore its HP on every turn. Because it’s rooted, it can’t switch out. The user lays roots that restore its HP on every turn. Because it's rooted, it can't switch out. The user lays roots that restore its own HP every turn. Because the user is now rooted, it can't switch out.
Superpower is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Attack and Defense by one stage each. Boosts strength sharply, but lowers abilities. A powerful attack, but it also lowers the user’s ATTACK and DEFENSE stats. The user attacks the foe with great power. However, it also lowers the user’s Attack and Defense. The user attacks the target with great power. However, it also lowers the user’s Attack and Defense. The user attacks the target with great power. However, this also lowers the user’s Attack and Defense stats. The user attacks the target with great power. However, this also lowers the user's Attack and Defense stats. The user attacks the target with great power. This also lowers the user's Attack and Defense stats.
Magic Coat is a Pokémon move. The first non-damaging move targeting the user this turn that inflicts major status effects, stat changes, or trapping effects will be reflected at its user. defog, memento, and teeter dance are not reflected. attract, flatter, gastro acid, leech seed, swagger, worry seed, and yawn are reflected. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Reflects special effects back to the attacker. Reflects back the foe’s LEECH SEED and any status- damaging move. A barrier reflects back to the foe moves like Leech Seed and moves that damage status. A barrier reflects back to the target moves like Leech Seed and moves that damage status. Moves like Leech Seed and moves that inflict status conditions are blocked by a barrier and reflected back to the user of those moves.
Recycle is a Pokémon move. User recovers the last item consumed by the user or a Pokémon in its position on the field. The item must be used again before it can be recovered by this move again. If the user is holding an item, this move fails. Items taken or given away by covet, knock off, switcheroo, thief, or trick may not be recovered. Recycles a used item for one more use. A move that recycles a used item for use once more. The user recycles a single-use item that has been used in battle so it can be used again. The user recycles a held item that has been used in battle so it can be used again.
Revenge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target damaged the user this turn and was the last to do so, this move has double power. pain split does not count as damaging the user. An attack that gains power if injured by the foe. An attack move that gains in intensity if the target has hurt the user. An attack move that inflicts double the damage if the user has been hurt by the foe in the same turn. An attack move that inflicts double the damage if the user has been hurt by the opponent in the same turn. This attack move’s power is doubled if the user has been hurt by the opponent in the same turn.
Brick Break is a Pokémon move. Destroys any light screen or reflect on the target’s side of the field, then inflicts regular damage. Destroys barriers such as REFLECT and causes damage. An attack that also breaks any barrier like LIGHT SCREEN and REFLECT. The user attacks with tough fists, etc. It can also break any barrier such as Light Screen and Reflect. The user attacks with a swift chop. It can also break any barrier such as Light Screen and Reflect. The user attacks with a swift chop. It can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect. The user attacks with a swift chop. This move can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect.
Yawn is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep at the end of the next turn. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. If the target leaves the field, this effect is canceled. If the target has a status effect when this move is used, this move will fail. If the target is protected by safeguard when this move is used, this move will fail. insomnia and vital spirit prevent the sleep if the target has either at the end of the next turn, but will not cause this move to fail on use. Lulls the foe into yawning, then sleeping next turn. A huge yawn lulls the foe into falling asleep on the next turn. The user lets loose a huge yawn that lulls the foe into falling asleep on the next turn. The user lets loose a huge yawn that lulls the target into falling asleep on the next turn.
Knock Off is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Target loses its held item. Neither the user nor the target can recover its item with recycle. If the target has multitype or sticky hold, it will take damage but not lose its item. Knocks down the foe’s held item to prevent its use. Knocks down the foe’s held item to prevent its use during the battle. The user slaps down the foe’s held item, preventing the item from being used during the battle. The user slaps down the target’s held item, preventing that item from being used in the battle. The user slaps down the target’s held item, and that item can’t be used in that battle. The move does more damage if the target has a held item. The user slaps down the target's held item, and that item can't be used in that battle. The move does more damage if the target has a held item. The user slaps down the target's held item, making it unusable for that battle. This move does more damage if the target has a held item.
Endeavor is a Pokémon move. Inflicts exactly enough damage to lower the target’s HP to equal the user’s. If the target’s HP is not higher than the user’s, this move has no effect. Type immunity applies, but other type effects are ignored. This effect counts as damage for moves that respond to damage. Gains power if the user’s HP is lower than the foe’s HP. Gains power the fewer HP the user has compared with the foe. An attack move that cuts down the foe’s HP to equal the user’s HP. An attack move that cuts down the target’s HP to equal the user’s HP. This attack move cuts down the target’s HP to equal the user’s HP. This attack move cuts down the target's HP to equal the user's HP. The user inflicts damage by cutting down the target's HP to roughly equal the user's HP.
Eruption is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases with the user’s remaining HP and is given by `150 * HP / max HP`, to a maximum of 150 when the user has full HP. The higher the user’s HP, the more damage caused. The higher the user’s HP, the more powerful this attack becomes. The user attacks in an explosive fury. The lower the user’s HP, the less powerful this attack becomes. The user attacks the opposing team with explosive fury. The lower the user’s HP, the less powerful this attack becomes. The user attacks opposing Pokémon with explosive fury. The lower the user’s HP, the lower the move’s power. The user attacks opposing Pokémon with explosive fury. The lower the user's HP, the lower the move's power.
Skill Swap is a Pokémon move. User and target switch abilities. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. If either Pokémon has multitype or wonder guard, this move will fail. The user swaps special abilities with the target. The user employs its psychic power to swap abilities with the foe. The user employs its psychic power to exchange abilities with the foe. The user employs its psychic power to exchange Abilities with the target.
Imprison is a Pokémon move. Prevents any Pokémon on the opposing side of the field from using any move the user knows until the user leaves the field. This effect is live; if the user obtains new moves while on the field, these moves become restricted. If no opposing Pokémon knows any of the user’s moves when this move is used, this move will fail. Prevents foes from using moves known by the user. Prevents foes from using any move that is also known by the user. If the foe knows any move also known by the user, the foe is prevented from using it. If the opponents know any move also known by the user, the opponents are prevented from using it. If opposing Pokémon know any move also known by the user, they are prevented from using it.
Refresh is a Pokémon move. Removes a burn, paralysis, or poison from the user. Heals poisoning, paralysis, or a burn. A self-healing move that cures the user of a poisoning, burn, or paralysis. The user rests to cure itself of a poisoning, burn, or paralysis. The user rests to cure itself of poisoning, a burn, or paralysis. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Grudge is a Pokémon move. If the user faints before it next acts, the move that fainted it will have its PP dropped to 0. End-of-turn damage does not trigger this effect. If the user faints, deletes the PP of the final move. If the user faints, deletes all PP of foe’s last move. If the user faints, this move deletes the PP of the move that finished it. If the user faints, the user’s grudge fully depletes the PP of the foe’s move that knocked it out. If the user faints, the user’s grudge fully depletes the PP of the opponent’s move that knocked it out.
Snatch is a Pokémon move. The next time a Pokémon uses a beneficial move on itself or itself and its ally this turn, the user of this move will steal the move and use it itself. Moves which may be stolen by this move are identified by the "snatchable" flag. If two Pokémon use this move on the same turn, the faster Pokémon will steal the first beneficial move, and the slower Pokémon will then steal it again—thus, only the slowest Pokémon using this move ultimately gains a stolen move’s effect. If the user steals psych up, it will target the Pokémon that used psych up. If the user was the original target of psych up, and the Pokémon that originally used it’s affected by pressure, it will only lose 1 PP. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome. Steals the effects of the move the foe uses next. Steals the effects of the move the target uses next. Steals the effects of the foe’s healing or status- changing move. The user steals the effects of any healing or status- changing move the foe attempts to use. The user steals the effects of any healing or stat- changing move the foe attempts to use. The user steals the effects of any healing or stat-changing move the opponent attempts to use. The user steals the effects of any attempts to use a healing or stat-changing move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Secret Power is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to inflict an effect chosen according to the terrain. Terrain | Effect -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- Building | Paralyzes target Cave | Makes target flinch Deep water | Lowers target’s Attack by one stage Desert | Lowers target’s accuracy by one stage Grass | Puts target to sleep Mountain | Makes target flinch Road | Lowers target’s accuracy by one stage Shallow water | Lowers target’s Attack by one stage Snow | Freezes target Tall grass | Puts target to sleep In Pokémon Battle Revolution: Terrain | Effect -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- Courtyard | Paralyzes target Crystal | Makes target flinch Gateway | Lowers target’s Attack by one stage Magma | Makes target flinch Main Street | Paralyzes target Neon | Paralyzes target Stargazer | Makes target flinch Sunny Park | Puts target to sleep Sunset | Lowers target’s accuracy by one stage Waterfall | Puts target to sleep An attack with effects that vary by location. An attack that may have an additional effect that varies with the terrain. The user attacks with a secret power. Its added effects vary depending on the user’s environment. The user attacks the target with a secret power. Its added effects vary depending on the user’s environment. The user attacks the target with a secret power. Its additional effects vary depending on the user’s environment. An attack whose additional effects depend upon where it was used. Can also be used to make a Secret Base. The additional effects of this attack depend upon where it was used. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Dive is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User dives underwater for one turn, becoming immune to attack, and hits on the second turn. During the immune turn, surf, and whirlpool still hit the user normally, and their power is doubled if appropriate. The user may be hit during its immune turn if under the effect of lock on, mind reader, or no guard. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. Dives underwater the first turn and strikes next turn. The user dives underwater on the first turn and strikes next turn. A two-turn attack. The user dives underwater on the first turn, then hits on the next turn. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the second turn. It can be used to dive deep in the ocean. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the next turn. Diving on the first turn, the user floats up and attacks on the next turn. It can be used to dive deep in the ocean. The user dives on the first turn, then floats up and attacks on the next turn.
Arm Thrust is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Straight-arm punches that strike the foe 2 to 5 times. A quick flurry of straight-arm punches that hit two to five times. The user looses a flurry of open-palmed arm thrusts that hit two to five times in a row. The user lets loose a flurry of open-palmed arm thrusts that hit two to five times in a row. The user attacks the target with open-palmed arm thrusts. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Camouflage is a Pokémon move. User’s type changes according to the terrain. Terrain | New type -------------- | -------------- Building | normal Cave | rock Desert | ground Grass | grass Mountain | rock Ocean | water Pond | water Road | ground Snow | ice Tall grass | grass In Pokémon Battle Revolution: Terrain | New type -------------- | -------------- Courtyard | normal Crystal | rock Gateway | water Magma | rock Main Street | normal Neon | normal Stargazer | rock Sunny Park | grass Sunset | ground Waterfall | grass Alters the POKéMON’s type depending on the location. Alters the user’s type depending on the location’s terrain. The user’s type is changed depending on its environment, such as at water’s edge, in grass, or in a cave. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Tail Glow is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Special Attack by three stages. Flashes a light that sharply raises SP. ATK. The user flashes a light that sharply raises its SP. ATK stat. The user stares at flashing lights to focus its mind, sharply raising its Sp. Atk stat. The user stares at flashing lights to focus its mind, drastically raising its Sp. Atk stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered. The user stares at flashing lights to focus its mind, drastically boosting its Sp. Atk stat. This move can't be used. It's recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can't be remembered.
Luster Purge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. Attacks with a burst of light. May lower SP. DEF. A burst of light injures the foe. It may also lower the foe’s SP. DEF. The user looses a damaging burst of light. It may also reduce the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user lets loose a damaging burst of light. It may also reduce the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user lets loose a damaging burst of light. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user lets loose a damaging burst of light. This may also lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Mist Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Attack by one stage. Attacks with a flurry of down. May lower SP. ATK. A flurry of down hits the foe. It may also lower the foe’s SP. ATK. A mistlike flurry of down envelops and damages the foe. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Atk. A mistlike flurry of down envelops and damages the target. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Atk. A mist-like flurry of down envelops and damages the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Atk stat. A mist-like flurry of down envelops and damages the target. This may also lower the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Feather Dance is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack by two stages. Envelops the foe with down to sharply reduce ATTACK. The foe is covered with a mass of down that sharply cuts the ATTACK stat. The user covers the foe with a mass of down that sharply lowers the Attack stat. The user covers the target’s body with a mass of down that harshly lowers its Attack stat. The user covers the target's body with a mass of down that harshly lowers its Attack stat.
Teeter Dance is a Pokémon move. Confuses all targets. Confuses all POKéMON on the scene. A wobbly dance that confuses all the POKéMON in battle. The user performs a wobbly dance that confuses all the Pokémon in battle. The user performs a wobbly dance that confuses the Pokémon around it. The user performs a wobbly dance that confuses every Pokémon around it.
Blaze Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. A kick with a high critical- hit ratio. May cause a burn. A fiery kick with a high critical-hit ratio. It may also burn the foe. The user launches a kick with a high critical-hit ratio. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user launches a kick that lands a critical hit more easily. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user launches a kick that lands a critical hit more easily. This may also leave the target with a burn. The user launches a kick that has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Mud Sport is a Pokémon move. electric moves inflict half damage, regardless of target. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Covers the user in mud to raise electrical resistance. Weakens ELECTRIC- type attacks while the user is in the battle. The user covers itself with mud. It weakens Electric- type moves while the user is in the battle. The user covers itself with mud. It weakens Electric-type moves while the user is in the battle. The user covers itself with mud. This weakens Electric-type moves for five turns. The user kicks up mud on the battlefield. This weakens Electric-type moves for five turns. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Ice Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User is forced to use this move for five turns. Power doubles every time this move is used in succession to a maximum of 16x, and resets to normal after the lock-in ends. If this move misses or becomes unusable, the lock-in ends. If the user has used defense curl since entering the field, this move has double power. A 5-turn attack that gains power on successive hits. A 5-turn rolling attack that becomes stronger each time it rolls. The user continually rolls into the foe over five turns. It becomes stronger each time it hits. The user continually rolls into the target over five turns. It becomes stronger each time it hits. The user attacks the target for five turns. The move’s power increases each time it hits. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Needle Arm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. Attacks with thorny arms. May cause flinching. An attack using thorny arms. It may make the foe flinch. The user attacks by wildly swinging its thorny arms. It may also make the target flinch. The user attacks by wildly swinging its thorny arms. This may also make the target flinch. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Slack Off is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. Slacks off and restores half the maximum HP. The user slacks off and restores its HP by half its full HP. The user slacks off, restoring its own HP by up to half of its maximum HP. The user slacks off, restoring its own HP by up to half of its max HP. The user slacks off, restoring its own HP by up to half its max HP.
Hyper Voice is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A loud attack that uses sound waves to injure. The user lets loose a horribly loud shout with the power to damage. The user lets loose a horribly echoing shout with the power to inflict damage. The user attacks by letting loose a horribly loud, resounding cry.
Poison Fang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to badly poison the target. A sharp-fanged attack. May badly poison the foe. The foe is bitten with toxic fangs. It may also badly poison the foe. The user bites the foe with toxic fangs. It may also leave the foe badly poisoned. The user bites the target with toxic fangs. It may also leave the target badly poisoned. The user bites the target with toxic fangs. This may also leave the target badly poisoned.
Crush Claw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. Tears at the foe with sharp claws. May lower DEFENSE. The foe is attacked with sharp claws. It may also lower the foe’s DEFENSE. The user slashes the foe with hard and sharp claws. It may also lower the target’s Defense. The user slashes the target with hard and sharp claws. It may also lower the target’s Defense. The user slashes the target with hard and sharp claws. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user slashes the target with hard and sharp claws. This may also lower the target's Defense stat.
Blast Burn is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. Powerful, but leaves the user immobile the next turn. The foe is hit with a huge explosion. The user can’t move on the next turn. The foe is razed by a fiery explosion. The user must rest on the next turn, however. The target is razed by a fiery explosion. The user must rest on the next turn, however. The target is razed by a fiery explosion. The user can’t move on the next turn. The target is razed by a fiery explosion. The user can't move on the next turn.
Hydro Cannon is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. Powerful, but leaves the user immobile the next turn. The foe is hit with a watery cannon. The user can’t move on the next turn. The foe is hit with a watery blast. The user must rest on the next turn, however. The target is hit with a watery blast. The user must rest on the next turn, however. The target is hit with a watery blast. The user can’t move on the next turn. The target is hit with a watery blast. The user can't move on the next turn.
Meteor Mash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise the user’s Attack one stage. Fires a meteor-like punch. May raise ATTACK. The foe is hit with a hard, fast punch. It may also raise the user’s ATTACK. The foe is hit with a hard punch fired like a meteor. It may also raise the user’s Attack. The target is hit with a hard punch fired like a meteor. It may also raise the user’s Attack. The target is hit with a hard punch fired like a meteor. This may also raise the user’s Attack stat. The target is hit with a hard punch fired like a meteor. This may also raise the user's Attack stat. The target is hit with a hard punch fired like a meteor. This may also boost the user’s Attack stat.
Astonish is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. An attack that may shock the foe into flinching. An attack using a startling shout. It also may make the foe flinch. The user attacks the foe while shouting in a startling fashion. It may also make the target flinch. The user attacks the target while shouting in a startling fashion. It may also make the target flinch. The user attacks the target while shouting in a startling fashion. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks the target while crying out in a startling fashion. The user attacks the target by crying out in a startling fashion. This may also make the target flinch.
Weather Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a weather move is active, this move has double power, and its type becomes the type of the weather move. shadow sky is typeless for the purposes of this move. The move’s type and power change with the weather. An attack that varies in power and type depending on the weather. An attack move that varies in power and type depending on the weather. This attack move varies in power and type depending on the weather. This move's type and power change depending on the weather at the time the move is used.
Aromatherapy is a Pokémon move. Removes major status effects and confusion from every Pokémon in the user’s party. Heals all status problems with a soothing scent. A soothing scent is released to heal all status problems in the user’s party. The user releases a soothing scent that heals all status problems affecting the user’s party. The user releases a soothing scent that heals all status conditions affecting the user’s party. The user releases a soothing scent that heals all status conditions affecting the user's party. This move can't be used. It's recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can't be remembered.
Fake Tears is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Special Defense by two stages. Feigns crying to sharply lower the foe’s SP. DEF. The user feigns crying to sharply lower the foe’s SP. DEF stat. The user feigns crying to make the foe feel flustered, sharply lowering its Sp. Def stat. The user feigns crying to fluster the target, harshly lowering its Sp. Def stat. The user feigns crying to fluster the target. This harshly lowers the target's Sp. Def stat.
Air Cutter is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Hacks with razorlike wind. High critical-hit ratio. The foe is hit with razor-like wind. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user launches razorlike wind to slash the foe. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user launches razor-like wind to slash the opposing team. Critical hits land more easily. The user launches razor-like wind to slash the opposing Pokémon. Critical hits land more easily. The user launches razor-like wind to slash opposing Pokémon. Critical hits land more easily. The user launches razor-like wind to slash the target. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user launches razor-like wind to slash opposing Pokémon. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Overheat is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Special Attack by two stages. Allows a full-power attack, but sharply lowers SP. ATK. An intense attack that also sharply reduces the user’s SP. ATK stat. The user attacks the foe at full power. The attack’s recoil sharply reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target at full power. The recoil from this move lowers the user’s offensive stats. The user attacks the target with all its might. The recoil from this move harshly lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Odor Sleuth is a Pokémon move. Resets the target’s evasion to normal and prevents any further boosting until the target leaves the field. A ghost under this effect takes normal damage from normal and fighting moves. This move itself ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. Negates the foe’s efforts to heighten evasiveness. Completely negates the foe’s efforts to heighten its ability to evade. Enables the user to hit a Ghost type with any type of move. It also enables the user to hit an evasive foe. Enables a Ghost-type target to be hit with Normal- and Fighting-type attacks. It also enables an evasive target to be hit. Enables a Ghost-type target to be hit by Normal- and Fighting-type attacks. This also enables an evasive target to be hit. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Rock Tomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. Stops the foe from moving with rocks and cuts SPEED. Boulders are hurled at the foe. It also lowers the foe’s SPEED if it hits. Boulders are hurled at the foe. It also lowers the foe’s Speed by preventing its movement. Boulders are hurled at the target. It also lowers the target’s Speed by preventing its movement. Boulders are hurled at the target. This also lowers the target’s Speed stat by preventing its movement. Boulders are hurled at the target. This also lowers the target's Speed stat by preventing its movement. The user hurls boulders at the target to inflict damage. This also lowers the target's Speed stat by cutting off its movement.
Silver Wind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise all of the user’s stats one stage. A powdery attack that may raise abilities. The foe is attacked with a silver dust. It may raise all the user’s stats. The foe is attacked with powdery scales blown by wind. It may also raise all the user’s stats. The target is attacked with powdery scales blown by wind. It may also raise all the user’s stats. The target is attacked with powdery scales blown by wind. This may also raise all the user’s stats. The target is attacked with powdery scales blown by the wind. This may also raise all the user’s stats. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Metal Sound is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Special Defense by two stages. Emits a horrible screech that sharply lowers SP. DEF. A horrible metallic screech is used to sharply lower the foe’s SP. DEF. A horrible sound like scraping metal is emitted to sharply reduce the foe’s Sp. Def stat. A horrible sound like scraping metal harshly reduces the target’s Sp. Def stat. A horrible sound like scraping metal harshly lowers the target’s Sp. Def stat. A horrible sound like scraping metal harshly lowers the target's Sp. Def stat.
Grass Whistle is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. Lulls the foe into sleep with a pleasant melody. A pleasant melody is played to lull the foe into a deep sleep. The user plays a pleasant melody that lulls the foe into a deep sleep. The user plays a pleasant melody that lulls the target into a deep sleep. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Tickle is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack and Defense by one stage. Makes the foe laugh to lower ATTACK and DEFENSE. The foe is made to laugh, reducing its ATTACK and DEFENSE stats. The user tickles the foe into laughing, reducing its Attack and Defense stats. The user tickles the target into laughing, reducing its Attack and Defense stats. The user tickles the target into laughing, lowering its Attack and Defense stats.
Cosmic Power is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense and Special Defense by one stage. Raises DEFENSE and SP. DEF with a mystic power. The user absorbs a mystic power to raise its DEFENSE and SP. DEF. The user absorbs a mystical power from space to raise its Defense and Sp. Def stats. The user absorbs a mystical power from space to boost its Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Water Spout is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases with the user’s remaining HP and is given by `150 * HP / max HP`, to a maximum of 150 when the user has full HP. Inflicts more damage if the user’s HP is high. The higher the user’s HP, the more powerful this attack becomes. The user spouts water to damage the foe. The lower the user’s HP, the less powerful it becomes. The user spouts water to damage the opposing team. The lower the user’s HP, the less powerful it becomes. The user spouts water to damage opposing Pokémon. The lower the user’s HP, the lower the move’s power. The user spouts water to damage opposing Pokémon. The lower the user's HP, the lower the move's power.
Signal Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. A strange beam attack that may confuse the foe. The foe is hit with a flashing beam that may also cause confusion. The user attacks with a sinister beam of light. It may also confuse the target. The user attacks with a sinister beam of light. This may also confuse the target. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shadow Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. An unavoidable punch that is thrown from shadows. The user throws a punch from the shadows. It cannot be evaded. The user throws a punch at the foe from the shadows. The punch lands without fail. The user throws a punch from the shadows. The punch lands without fail. The user throws a punch from the shadows. This attack never misses.
Extrasensory is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. Attacks with a peculiar power. May cause flinching. The user attacks with an odd power that may make the foe flinch. The user attacks with an odd, unseeable power. It may also make the foe flinch. The user attacks with an odd, unseeable power. It may also make the target flinch. The user attacks with an odd, unseeable power. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks with an odd, unseeable power.
Sky Uppercut is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This move can hit Pokémon under the effect of bounce, fly, or sky drop. An uppercut thrown as if leaping into the sky. The user attacks with an uppercut thrown skywards with force. The user attacks the foe with an uppercut thrown skyward with force. The user attacks the target with an uppercut thrown skyward with force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sand Tomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. Traps and hurts the foe in quicksand for 2 to 5 turns. The foe is trapped inside a painful sandstorm for two to five turns. The user traps the foe inside a harshly raging sandstorm for two to five turns. The user traps the target inside a harshly raging sandstorm for four to five turns. The user traps the target inside a harshly raging sandstorm that inflicts damage for four to five turns.
Sheer Cold is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the target’s max HP. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This move’s accuracy is 30% plus 1% for each level the user is higher than the target. If the user is a lower level than the target, this move will fail. Because this move inflicts a specific and finite amount of damage, endure still prevents the target from fainting. The effects of lock on, mind reader, and no guard still apply, as long as the user is equal or higher level than the target. However, they will not give this move a chance to break through detect or protect. A chilling attack that causes fainting if it hits. The foe is attacked with ultimate cold that causes fainting if it hits. The foe is attacked with a blast of absolute-zero cold. The foe instantly faints if it hits. The target is attacked with a blast of absolute-zero cold. The target instantly faints if it hits. The target is attacked with a blast of absolute-zero cold. The target faints instantly if this attack hits. The target faints instantly. It’s less likely to hit the target if it’s used by Pokémon other than Ice types. The target faints instantly. This move is less likely to hit the target if used by Pokémon other than Ice types.
Muddy Water is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. Attacks with muddy water. May lower accuracy. The user attacks with muddy water. It may also lower the foe’s accuracy. The user attacks by shooting out muddy water. It may also lower the foe’s accuracy. The user attacks by shooting muddy water at the opposing team. It may also lower the targets’ accuracy. The user attacks by shooting muddy water at the opposing Pokémon. This may also lower their accuracy. The user attacks by shooting muddy water at opposing Pokémon. This may also lower their accuracy.
Bullet Seed is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Shoots 2 to 5 seeds in a row to strike the foe. The user shoots seeds at the foe. Two to five seeds are shot at once. The user forcefully shoots seeds at the foe. Two to five seeds are shot in rapid succession. The user forcefully shoots seeds at the target. Two to five seeds are shot in rapid succession. The user forcefully shoots seeds at the target two to five times in a row. The user attacks by forcefully shooting seeds at the target. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Aerial Ace is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. An extremely speedy and unavoidable attack. An extremely fast attack against one target. It can’t be evaded. The user confounds the foe with speed, then slashes. The attack lands without fail. The user confounds the target with speed, then slashes. The attack lands without fail. The user confounds the target with speed, then slashes. This attack never misses.
Icicle Spear is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Attacks the foe by firing 2 to 5 icicles in a row. Sharp icicles are fired at the foe. It strikes two to five times. The user launches sharp icicles at the foe. It strikes two to five times in a row. The user launches sharp icicles at the target. It strikes two to five times in a row. The user launches sharp icicles at the target two to five times in a row. The user attacks by launching sharp icicles at the target. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Iron Defense is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense by two stages. Hardens the body’s surface to sharply raise DEFENSE. The user hardens its body’s surface to sharply raise its DEFENSE stat. The user hardens its body’s surface like iron, sharply raising its Defense stat. The user hardens its body's surface like iron, raising its defensive stats. The user hardens its body's surface like iron, sharply boosting its Defense stat.
Block is a Pokémon move. The target cannot switch out normally. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This effect ends when the user leaves the field. The target may still escape by using baton pass, u turn, or a shed shell. Both the user and the target pass on this effect with baton pass. Blocks the foe’s way to prevent escape. The user blocks the foe’s way with arms spread wide to prevent escape. The user blocks the target’s way with arms spread wide to prevent escape. The user blocks the target's way with arms spread wide to prevent escape. The user blocks the target's way with arms spread wide to prevent the target from fleeing.
Howl is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack by one stage. Howls to raise the spirit and boosts ATTACK. The user howls to raise its spirit and boost its ATTACK stat. The user howls loudly to raise its spirit, boosting its Attack stat. The user howls loudly to raise its spirit, which raises its Attack stat. The user howls loudly to raise the spirit of itself and allies. This raises their Attack stats. The user howls loudly to rouse itself and its allies. This boosts their Attack stats.
Dragon Claw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Slashes the foe with sharp claws. Sharp, huge claws hook and slash the foe quickly and with great power. The user slashes the foe with huge, sharp claws. The user slashes the target with huge, sharp claws. The user slashes the target with huge sharp claws. The user slashes the target with huge, sharp claws. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user slashes the target with huge, sharp claws to inflict damage.
Frenzy Plant is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. Powerful, but leaves the user immobile the next turn. The foe is hit with an enormous branch. The user can’t move on the next turn. The foe is slammed with an enormous tree. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user slams the target with an enormous tree. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user slams the target with the roots of an enormous tree. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user slams the target with the roots of an enormous tree. The user can't move on the next turn.
Bulk Up is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack and Defense by one stage each. Bulks up the body to boost both ATTACK and DEFENSE. The user bulks up its body to boost both its ATTACK and DEFENSE stats. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, boosting both its Attack and Defense stats. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, raising both its Attack and Defense stats. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, raising its offensive and defensive stats. The user tenses its muscles to bulk up its body, boosting its Attack and Defense stats.
Bounce is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User bounces high into the air for one turn, becoming immune to attack, and hits on the second turn. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. During the immune turn, gust, hurricane, sky uppercut, smack down, thunder, and twister still hit the user normally. gust and twister also have double power against the user. The damage from hail and sandstorm still applies during the immune turn. The user may be hit during its immune turn if under the effect of lock on, mind reader, or no guard. This move cannot be used while gravity is in effect. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. Bounces up, then down the next turn. May paralyze. The user bounces on the foe on the 2nd turn. It may paralyze the foe. The user bounces up high, then drops on the foe on the second turn. It may also paralyze the foe. The user bounces up high, then drops on the target on the second turn. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The user bounces up high, then drops on the target on the second turn. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user bounces up high on the first turn, then drops onto the target on the next turn. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Mud Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. Hurls mud at the foe and reduces SPEED. The user attacks by hurling mud. It also reduces the foe’s SPEED. The user attacks by hurling a blob of mud at the foe. It also reduces the target’s Speed. The user attacks by hurling a blob of mud at the target. It also reduces the target’s Speed. The user attacks by hurling a blob of mud at the target. This also lowers the target’s Speed stat. The user attacks by hurling a blob of mud at the target. This also lowers the target's Speed stat.
Poison Tail is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. Has a high critical-hit ratio. May also poison. An attack with a high critical-hit ratio. It may also poison the foe. An attack with a high critical-hit ratio. This tail attack may also poison the foe. The user hits the target with its tail. It may also poison the target. Critical hits land more easily. The user hits the target with its tail. This may also poison the target. Critical hits land more easily. The user hits the target with its tail. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit and may also poison the target.
Covet is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is holding an item and the user is not, the user will permanently take the item. Damage is still inflicted if an item cannot be taken. Pokémon with sticky hold or multitype are immune to the item theft effect. The target cannot recover its item with recycle. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. Cutely begs to obtain an item held by the foe. A cutely executed attack that also steals the foe’s hold item. The user endearingly approaches the foe, then steals the item the foe is holding. The user endearingly approaches the target, then steals the target’s held item. The user endearingly approaches the target, then steals the target's held item.
Volt Tackle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/3 the damage it inflicts in recoil. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. A life-risking tackle that slightly hurts the user. The user throws an electrified tackle. It hurts the user a little. The user electrifies itself, then charges at the foe. It causes considerable damage to the user as well. The user electrifies itself, then charges. It causes considerable damage to the user and may leave the target with paralysis. The user electrifies itself, then charges. This also damages the user quite a lot. This may leave the target with paralysis. The user electrifies itself and charges the target. This also damages the user quite a lot. This attack may leave the target with paralysis.
Magical Leaf is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. Attacks with a strange leaf that cannot be evaded. The foe is attacked with a strange leaf that cannot be evaded. The user scatters curious leaves that chase the foe. This attack will not miss. The user scatters curious leaves that chase the target. This attack will not miss. The user scatters curious leaves that chase the target. This attack never misses.
Water Sport is a Pokémon move. fire moves inflict half damage, regardless of target. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. The user becomes soaked to raise resistance to fire. Weakens FIRE-type attacks while the user is in the battle. The user soaks itself with water. The move weakens Fire-type moves while the user is in the battle. The user soaks itself with water. This weakens Fire-type moves for five turns. The user soaks the battlefield with water. This weakens Fire-type moves for five turns. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Calm Mind is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Special Attack and Special Defense by one stage each. Raises SP. ATK and SP. DEF by focusing the mind. The user focuses its mind to raise the SP. ATK and SP. DEF stats. The user quietly focuses its mind and calms its spirit to raise its Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats. The user quietly focuses its mind and calms its spirit to raise its offensive and defensive stats. The user quietly focuses its mind and calms its spirit to boost its Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats.
Leaf Blade is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Slashes with a sharp leaf. High critical-hit ratio. The foe is slashed with a sharp leaf. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user handles a sharp leaf like a sword and attacks by cutting its target. Critical hits land more easily. The user handles a sharp leaf like a sword and attacks by cutting its target. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user handles a sharp leaf like a sword and cuts the target to inflict damage. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Dragon Dance is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack and Speed by one stage each. A mystical dance that ups ATTACK and SPEED. A mystic, powerful dance that boosts the user’s ATTACK and SPEED stats. The user vigorously performs a mystic, powerful dance that boosts its Attack and Speed stats. The user vigorously performs a mystic, powerful dance that raises its Attack and Speed stats.
Rock Blast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. Hurls boulders at the foe 2 to 5 times in a row. The user hurls two to five hard rocks at the foe to attack. The user hurls hard rocks at the foe. Two to five rocks are launched in quick succession. The user hurls hard rocks at the target. Two to five rocks are launched in quick succession. The user hurls hard rocks at the target. Two to five rocks are launched in a row. The user attacks by hurling hard rocks at the target. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Shock Wave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. A fast and unavoidable electric attack. A rapid jolt of electricity strikes the foe. It can’t be evaded. The user strikes the foe with a quick jolt of electricity. This attack cannot be evaded. The user strikes the target with a quick jolt of electricity. This attack cannot be evaded. The user strikes the target with a quick jolt of electricity. This attack never misses.
Water Pulse is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. Attacks with ultrasonic waves. May confuse the foe Attacks with ultrasonic waves. May confuse the foe. An attack with a pulsing blast of water. It may also confuse the foe. The user attacks the foe with a pulsing blast of water. It may also confuse the foe. The user attacks the target with a pulsing blast of water. It may also confuse the target. The user attacks the target with a pulsing blast of water. This may also confuse the target. The user attacks the target with a pulsing blast of water. This attack never misses.
Doom Desire is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless regular damage at the end of the third turn, starting with this one. This move cannot score a critical hit. If the target switches out, its replacement will be hit instead. Damage is calculated at the time this move is used; stat changes and switching out during the delay won’t change the damage inflicted. No move with this effect can be used against the same target again until after the end of the third turn. This effect breaks through wonder guard. If the target is protected by protect or detect on the turn this move is used, this move will fail. However, the damage on the third turn will break through protection. The damage is applied at the end of the turn, so it ignores endure and focus sash. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. Summons strong sunlight to attack 2 turns later. A move that attacks the foe with a blast of light two turns after use. Two turns after this move is used, the user blasts the foe with a concentrated bundle of light. Two turns after this move is used, the user blasts the target with a concentrated bundle of light. Two turns after this move is used, a concentrated bundle of light blasts the target. This move can't be used. It's recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can't be remembered.
Psycho Boost is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Special Attack by two stages. Allows a full-power attack, but sharply lowers SP. ATK. An intense attack that also sharply reduces the user’s SP. ATK stat. The user attacks the foe at full power. The attack’s recoil sharply reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered. The user attacks the target at full power. The attack's recoil harshly lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat. This move can't be used. It's recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can't be remembered. The user attacks the target with all its might. The recoil from this move harshly lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Roost is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. If the user is flying, its flying type is ignored until the end of this turn. The user lands and rests its body. It restores the user’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The user lands and rests its body. This move restores the user’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The user lands and rests its body. This move restores the user's HP. The user lands and rests its body. This move restores the user's HP by up to half its max HP.
Gravity is a Pokémon move. For five turns (including this one), all immunities to ground moves are disabled. For the duration of this effect, the evasion of every Pokémon on the field is lowered by two stages. Cancels the effects of bounce, fly, and sky drop. Specifically, flying Pokémon and those with levitate or that have used magnet rise are no longer immune to ground attacks, arena trap, spikes, or toxic spikes. bounce, fly, sky drop, high jump kick, jump kick, and splash cannot be used while this move is in effect. *Bug*: If this move is used during a double or triple battle while Pokémon are under the effect of sky drop, Sky Drop’s effect is not correctly canceled on its target, and it remains high in the air indefinitely. As Sky Drop prevents the target from acting, the only way to subsequently remove it from the field is to faint it. Gravity is intensified for five turns, making moves involving flying unusable and negating Levitation. Gravity is intensified for five turns, making moves involving flying unusable and negating Levitate. Enables Flying-type Pokémon or Pokémon with the Levitate Ability to be hit by Ground-type moves. Flying moves can’t be used. This move enables Flying-type Pokémon or Pokémon with the Levitate Ability to be hit by Ground-type moves. Moves that involve flying can’t be used. This move enables Flying-type Pokémon or Pokémon with the Levitate Ability to be hit by Ground-type moves. Moves that involve flying can't be used. Enables Flying types or Pokémon with the Levitate Ability to be hit by Ground-type moves for five turns. Moves that involve flying can't be used.
Miracle Eye is a Pokémon move. Resets the target’s evasion to normal and prevents any further boosting until the target leaves the field. A dark Pokémon under this effect takes normal damage from psychic moves. This move itself ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. Enables a Dark-type target to be hit by Psychic-type attacks. This also enables an evasive target to be hit. Enables the user to hit a Ghost type with any type of move. It also enables the user to hit an evasive foe. Enables the user to hit a Dark type with any type of move. It also enables the user to hit an evasive foe. Enables a Dark-type target to be hit by Psychic-type attacks. It also enables an evasive target to be hit. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Wake Up Slap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is sleeping, this move has double power, and the target wakes up. This attack inflicts high damage on a sleeping foe. It also wakes the foe up, however. This attack inflicts big damage on a sleeping target. It also wakes the target up, however. This attack inflicts big damage on a sleeping target. This also wakes the target up, however. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Hammer Arm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Speed by one stage. The user swings and hits with its strong and heavy fist. It lowers the user’s Speed, however. The user swings and hits with its strong, heavy fist. It lowers the user’s Speed, however. The user swings and hits with its strong, heavy fist. It lowers the user's Speed, however. The user swings its strong, heavy fist at the target to inflict damage. This also lowers the user's Speed stat.
Gyro Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases with the target’s current Speed compared to the user, given by `1 + 25 * target Speed / user Speed`, capped at 150. The user tackles the foe with a high-speed spin. The slower the user, the greater the damage. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user, the greater the damage. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user compared to the target, the greater the move’s power. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user compared to the target, the greater the move's power. The user tackles the target with a high-speed spin. The slower the user is than the target, the greater the move's power.
Healing Wish is a Pokémon move. User faints. Its replacement’s HP is fully restored, and any major status effect is removed. If the replacement Pokémon is immediately fainted by a switch-in effect, the next replacement is healed by this move instead. The user faints. In return, the Pokémon taking its place will have its HP restored and status cured. The user faints. In return, the Pokémon taking its place will have its HP restored and status conditions cured.
Brine is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target has less than half its max HP remaining, this move has double power. If the foe’s HP is down to about half, this attack will hit with double the power. If the target’s HP is down to about half, this attack will hit with double the power. If the target’s HP is half or less, this attack will hit with double the power. If the target's HP is half or less, this attack will hit with double the power. This move's power is doubled if the target's HP is at half or less.
Natural Gift is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power and type are determined by the user’s held berry. The berry is consumed. If the user is not holding a berry, this move will fail. The user draws power to attack by using its held Berry. The Berry determines its type and power. The user draws power to attack by using its held Berry. The Berry determines the move’s type and power. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Feint is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Removes the effects of detect or protect from the target before hitting. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist or metronome. An attack that hits a foe using Protect or Detect. It also lifts the effects of those moves. An attack that hits a target using Protect or Detect. It also lifts the effects of those moves. An attack that hits a target using Protect or Detect. This also lifts the effects of those moves. This attack hits a target using a move such as Protect or Detect. This also lifts the effects of those moves. This attack hits a target using Protect. This also lifts the effects of the move. This attack can hit a target using a move such as Protect or Detect. This also lifts the effects of those moves.
Pluck is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is holding a berry, this move has double power, and the user takes the berry and uses it immediately. If the target is holding a jaboca berry or rowap berry, the berry is still removed, but has no effect. If this move is super effective and the target is holding a berry that can reduce this move’s damage, it will do so, and will not be stolen. The user pecks the foe. If the foe is holding a Berry, the user plucks it and gains its effect. The user pecks the target. If the target is holding a Berry, the user eats it and gains its effect. The user attacks by pecking the target. If the target is holding a Berry, the user eats it and gains its effect.
Tailwind is a Pokémon move. For the next three turns, all Pokémon on the user’s side of the field have their original Speed doubled. This effect remains if the user leaves the field. The user whips up a turbulent whirlwind that ups the Speed of all party Pokémon for three turns. The user whips up a turbulent whirlwind that ups the Speed of all party Pokémon for four turns. The user whips up a turbulent whirlwind that ups the Speed stat of the user and its allies for four turns. The user whips up a turbulent whirlwind that ups the Speed stats of the user and its allies for four turns. The user whips up a turbulent whirlwind that boosts the Speed stats of itself and its allies for four turns.
Acupressure is a Pokémon move. Raises one of the target’s stats by two stages. The raised stat is chosen at random from any stats that can be raised by two stages. If no stat is eligible, this move will fail. If the target has a substitute, this move will have no effect, even if the user is the target. This move cannot be copied by mirror move. The user applies pressure to stress points, sharply boosting one of its stats. The user applies pressure to stress points, sharply boosting one of its or its allies’ stats. The user applies pressure to stress points, sharply boosting one of its or its allies' stats.
Metal Burst is a Pokémon move. Targets the last opposing Pokémon to hit the user with a damaging move this turn. Inflicts 1.5× the damage that move did to the user. If there is no eligible target, this move will fail. Type immunity applies, but other type effects are ignored. The user retaliates against the foe that last inflicted damage on it with much greater power. The user retaliates with much greater power against the target that last inflicted damage on it. The user retaliates with much greater power against the opponent that last inflicted damage on it. The user retaliates with much greater force against the opponent that last inflicted damage on it.
U Turn is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then the user immediately switches out, and the trainer selects a replacement Pokémon from the party. If the target faints from this attack, the user’s trainer selects the new Pokémon to send out first. If the user is the last Pokémon in its party that can battle, it will not switch out. The user may be hit by pursuit when it switches out, if it has been targeted and pursuit has not yet been used. This move may be used even if the user is under the effect of ingrain. ingrain’s effect will end. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Close Combat is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Defense and Special Defense by one stage each. The user fights the foe in close without guarding itself. It also cuts the user’s Defense and Sp. Def. The user fights the foe up close without guarding itself. It also cuts the user’s Defense and Sp. Def. The user fights the target up close without guarding itself. It also cuts the user’s Defense and Sp. Def. The user fights the target up close without guarding itself. This also lowers the user’s Defense and Sp. Def stats. The user fights the target up close, inflicting damage without guarding itself. This also lowers the user's defensive stats. The user fights the target up close, inflicting damage without guarding itself. This also lowers the user's Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Payback is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target uses a move or switches out this turn before this move is used, this move has double power. If the user can use this attack after the foe attacks, its power is doubled. If the user moves after the target, this attack’s power will be doubled. The user stores power, then attacks. If the user moves after the target, this attack’s power will be doubled. The user stores power, then attacks. If the user moves after the target, this attack's power will be doubled. The user stores power, then attacks. This move's power is doubled if the user moves after the target.
Assurance is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target takes damage this turn for any reason before this move is used, this move has double power. If the foe has already taken some damage in the same turn, this attack’s power is doubled. If the target has already taken some damage in the same turn, this attack’s power is doubled. If the target has already taken some damage in the same turn, this attack's power is doubled. This move's power is doubled if the target has already taken some damage in the same turn.
Embargo is a Pokémon move. Target cannot use its held item for five turns. If the target leaves the field, this effect ends. If a Pokémon under this effect uses bug bite or pluck on a Pokémon holding a berry, the berry is destroyed but not used. If a Pokémon under this effect uses fling, it will fail. This effect is passed by baton pass. It prevents the foe from using its held item. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. It prevents the target from using its held item. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. This move prevents the target from using its held item. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. This move prevents the target from using its held item for five turns. Its Trainer is also prevented from using items on it. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Fling is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power and type are determined by the user’s held item. The item is consumed. If the user is not holding an item, or its item has no set type and power, this move will fail. This move ignores sticky hold. If the user is under the effect of embargo, this move will fail. The user flings its held item at the foe to attack. Its power and effects depend on the item. The user flings its held item at the target to attack. Its power and effects depend on the item. The user flings its held item at the target to attack. This move’s power and effects depend on the item. The user flings its held item at the target to attack. This move's power and effects depend on the item.
Psycho Shift is a Pokémon move. If the user has a major status effect and the target does not, the user’s status is transferred to the target. Using its psychic power of suggestion, the user transfers its status problems to the target. Using its psychic power of suggestion, the user transfers its status conditions to the target.
Trump Card is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power is determined by the PP remaining for this move, after its PP cost is deducted. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. PP remaining | Power ------------ | ----: 4 or more | 40 3 | 50 2 | 60 1 | 80 0 | 200 If this move is activated by another move, the activating move’s PP is used to calculate power. The fewer PP this move has, the more power it has for attack. The fewer PP this move has, the greater its attack power. The fewer PP this move has, the greater its power. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Heal Block is a Pokémon move. For the next five turns, the target may not use any moves that only restore HP, and move effects that heal the target are disabled. Moves that steal HP may still be used, but will only inflict damage and not heal the target. The user prevents the foe from using any HP-recovery moves for five turns. For five turns, the user prevents the opposing team from using any moves, Abilities, or held items that recover HP. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Wring Out is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power directly relates to the target’s relative remaining HP, given by `1 + 120 * current HP / max HP`, to a maximum of 121. The user powerfully wrings the foe. The more HP the foe has, the greater this attack’s power. The user powerfully wrings the target. The more HP the target has, the greater this attack’s power. The user powerfully wrings the target. The more HP the target has, the greater the move’s power. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Power Trick is a Pokémon move. The user’s original Attack and Defense are swapped. This effect is passed on by baton pass. The user employs its psychic power to switch its Attack stat with its Defense stat. The user employs its psychic power to switch its Attack with its Defense stat.
Gastro Acid is a Pokémon move. The target’s ability is disabled as long as it remains on the field. This effect is passed on by baton pass. The user hurls up its stomach acids on the foe. The fluid eliminates the effect of the foe’s ability. The user hurls up its stomach acids on the target. The fluid eliminates the effect of the target’s Ability. The user hurls up its stomach acids on the target. The fluid eliminates the effect of the target's Ability.
Lucky Chant is a Pokémon move. For five turns, opposing Pokémon cannot score critical hits. The user chants an incantation toward the sky, preventing the foe from landing critical hits. The user chants an incantation toward the sky, preventing opposing Pokémon from landing critical hits. The user chants an incantation toward the sky, preventing opposing Pokémon from landing critical hits for five turns. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Me First is a Pokémon move. If the target has selected a damaging move this turn, the user will copy that move and use it against the target, with a 50% increase in power. If the target moves before the user, this move will fail. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk. The user tries to cut ahead of the foe to steal and use the foe’s intended move with greater power. The user tries to cut ahead of the target to steal and use the target’s intended move with greater power. The user cuts ahead of the target to steal and use the target’s intended move with greater power. This move fails if it isn’t used first. The user cuts ahead of the target to copy and use the target’s intended move with greater power. This move fails if it isn’t used first. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Copycat is a Pokémon move. Uses the last move that was used successfully by any Pokémon, including the user. This move cannot copy itself, nor roar nor whirlwind. This move cannot be copied by mirror move, nor selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk. The user mimics the move used immediately before it. The move fails if no other move has been used yet.
Power Swap is a Pokémon move. User swaps its Attack and Special Attack stat modifiers modifiers with the target. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Attack and Sp. Atk with the foe. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Attack and Sp. Atk with the target. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Attack and Sp. Atk stats with the target.
Guard Swap is a Pokémon move. User swaps its Defense and Special Defense modifiers with the target. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Defense and Sp. Def with the foe. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Defense and Sp. Def with the target. The user employs its psychic power to switch changes to its Defense and Sp. Def stats with the target.
Punishment is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power starts at 60 and is increased by 20 for every stage any of the target’s stats has been raised, capping at 200. Accuracy and evasion modifiers do not increase this move’s power. This attack’s power increases the more the foe has powered up with stat changes. This attack’s power increases the more the target has powered up with stat changes. The more the target has powered up with stat changes, the greater the move’s power. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Last Resort is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This move can only be used if each of the user’s other moves has been used at least once since the user entered the field. If this is the user’s only move, this move will fail. This move can be used only after the user has used all the other moves it knows in the battle.
Worry Seed is a Pokémon move. Changes the target’s ability to insomnia. If the target’s ability is truant or multitype, this move will fail. A seed that causes worry is planted on the foe. It prevents sleep by making its ability Insomnia. A seed that causes worry is planted on the target. It prevents sleep by making its Ability Insomnia. A seed that causes worry is planted on the target. It prevents sleep by making the target’s Ability Insomnia. A seed that causes worry is planted on the target. It prevents sleep by making the target's Ability Insomnia.
Sucker Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target has not selected a damaging move this turn, or if the target has already acted this turn, this move will fail. This move is not affected by iron fist. This move enables the user to attack first. It fails if the foe is not readying an attack, however. This move enables the user to attack first. It fails if the target is not readying an attack, however. This move enables the user to attack first. This move fails if the target is not readying an attack.
Toxic Spikes is a Pokémon move. Scatters poisoned spikes around the opposing field, which poison opposing Pokémon that enter the field. A second layer of these spikes may be laid down, in which case Pokémon will be badly poisoned instead. Pokémon immune to either ground moves or being poisoned are immune to this effect. Pokémon otherwise immune to ground moves are affected during gravity. If a poison Pokémon not immune to ground moves enters a field covered with poisoned spikes, the spikes are removed. rapid spin will remove this effect from its user’s side of the field. defog will remove this effect from its target’s side of the field. This move does not trigger synchronize, unless the Pokémon with synchronize was forced to enter the field by another effect such as roar. Pokémon entering the field due to baton pass are not affected by this effect. The user lays a trap of poison spikes at the foe’s feet. They poison foes that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of poison spikes at the opponent’s feet. They poison opponents that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of poison spikes at the opposing team’s feet. They poison opposing Pokémon that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of poison spikes at the feet of the opposing team. The spikes will poison opposing Pokémon that switch into battle.
Heart Swap is a Pokémon move. User swaps its stat modifiers with the target. The user employs its psychic power to switch stat changes with the foe. The user employs its psychic power to switch stat changes with the target. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered. This move can't be used. It's recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can't be remembered.
Aqua Ring is a Pokémon move. Restores 1/16 of the user’s max HP at the end of each turn. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. This effect is passed on by baton pass. The user envelops itself in a veil made of water. It regains some HP on every turn. The user envelops itself in a veil made of water. It regains some HP every turn.
Magnet Rise is a Pokémon move. For five turns, the user is immune to ground moves. If the user is under the effect of ingrain or has levitate, this move will fail. This effect is temporarily disabled by and cannot be used during gravity. This effect is passed on by baton pass. The user levitates using electrically generated magnetism for five turns.
Flare Blitz is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/3 the damage it inflicts in recoil. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. Frozen Pokémon may use this move, in which case they will thaw. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges at the foe. The user sustains serious damage, too. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges at the target. The user sustains serious damage and may leave the target burned. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges the target. This also damages the user quite a lot. This may leave the target with a burn. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges the target. This also damages the user quite a lot. This attack may leave the target with a burn. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges the target to inflict damage. This also damages the user and may leave the target with a burn. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges the target to inflict damage. This also damages the user quite a lot and may leave the target with a burn.
Force Palm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. The foe is attacked with a shock wave. It may also leave the target paralyzed. The target is attacked with a shock wave. It may also leave the target with paralysis. The target is attacked with a shock wave. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Aura Sphere is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. The user looses a blast of aura power from deep within its body. This move is certain to hit. The user looses a blast of aura power from deep within its body at the target. This move is certain to hit. The user lets loose a blast of aura power from deep within its body at the target. This attack never misses. The user lets loose a pulse of aura power from deep within its body at the target. This attack never misses.
Rock Polish is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Speed by two stages. The user polishes its body to reduce drag. It can sharply raise the Speed stat. The user polishes its body to reduce drag. This can sharply raise the Speed stat. The user polishes its body to reduce drag. This sharply raises the Speed stat. The user polishes its body to reduce drag. This sharply boosts the user's Speed stat.
Poison Jab is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. The foe is stabbed with a tentacle or arm steeped in poison. It may also poison the foe. The target is stabbed with a tentacle or arm steeped in poison. It may also poison the target. The target is stabbed with a tentacle or arm steeped in poison. This may also poison the target. The target is stabbed with a tentacle, arm, or the like steeped in poison. This may also poison the target. The target is stabbed with a tentacle, an arm, or the like steeped in poison. This may also poison the target.
Dark Pulse is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with dark thoughts. It may also make the target flinch. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with dark thoughts. This may also make the target flinch. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with ill intent. This attack never misses. The user releases a horrible aura imbued with ill intent. This may also make the target flinch.
Night Slash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user slashes the foe the instant an opportunity arises. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user slashes the target the instant an opportunity arises. Critical hits land more easily. The user slashes the target the instant the target lowers its guard. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user slashes the target the instant an opportunity arises. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Aqua Tail is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks by swinging its tail as if it were a vicious wave in a raging storm.
Seed Bomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user slams a barrage of hard- shelled seeds down on the foe from above. The user slams a barrage of hard-shelled seeds down on the target from above. The user attacks by slamming a barrage of hard-shelled seeds down on the target from above.
Air Slash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user attacks with a blade of air that slices even the sky. It may also make the target flinch. The user attacks with a blade of air that slices even the sky. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks with a blade of air that slices even the sky.
X Scissor is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user slashes at the foe by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors. The user slashes at the target by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors. The user strikes at the target by crossing its scythes or claws as if they were a pair of scissors. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user slashes at the target by crossing its scythes, claws, or the like as if they were a pair of scissors.
Bug Buzz is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. The user vibrates its wings to generate a damaging sound wave. It may also lower the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The user vibrates its wings to generate a damaging sound wave. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user vibrates its wings to generate a damaging sound wave. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user generates a damaging sound wave by vibration. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user vibrates to generate a damaging sound wave. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user vibrates to generate a damaging sound wave. This may also lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Dragon Pulse is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The foe is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user’s gaping mouth. The target is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user’s gaping mouth. The target is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user's gaping mouth. This attack never misses. The target is attacked with a shock wave generated by the user's gaping mouth.
Dragon Rush is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user tackles the foe while exhibiting overwhelming menace. It may also make the target flinch. The user tackles the target while exhibiting overwhelming menace. It may also make the target flinch. The user tackles the target while exhibiting overwhelming menace. This may also make the target flinch.
Power Gem is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks with a ray of light that sparkles as if it were made of gemstones.
Drain Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. An energy-draining punch. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user attacks with an energy-draining punch that restores the user’s HP. The user attacks with an energy-draining punch. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Vacuum Wave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user whirls its fists to send a wave of pure vacuum at the foe. This move always goes first. The user whirls its fists to send a wave of pure vacuum at the target. This move always goes first.
Focus Blast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user heightens its mental focus and unleashes its power. This may also lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Energy Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the foe. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user draws power from nature and fires it at the target. This may also lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Brave Bird is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/3 the damage it inflicts in recoil. The user tucks in its wings and charges from a low altitude. The user also takes serious damage. The user tucks in its wings and charges from a low altitude. This also damages the user quite a lot. The user tucks in its wings and charges at a low altitude. This also damages the user. The user tucks in its wings and charges at a low altitude. This also damages the user quite a lot.
Earth Power is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. The user makes the ground under the foe erupt with power. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user makes the ground under the target erupt with power. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user makes the ground under the target erupt with power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user makes the ground under the target erupt with power. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user makes the ground under the target erupt with power. This may also lower the target's defensive stats. The user makes the ground under the target erupt with power. This may also lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Switcheroo is a Pokémon move. User and target permanently swap held items. Works even if one of the Pokémon isn’t holding anything. If either Pokémon is holding mail, this move will fail. If either Pokémon has multitype or sticky hold, this move will fail. If this move results in a Pokémon obtaining choice band, choice scarf, or choice specs, and that Pokémon was the latter of the pair to move this turn, then the move it used this turn becomes its chosen forced move. This applies even if both Pokémon had a choice item before this move was used. If the first of the two Pokémon gains a choice item, it may select whatever choice move it wishes next turn. Neither the user nor the target can recover its item with recycle. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. The user trades held items with the foe faster than the eye can follow. The user trades held items with the target faster than the eye can follow.
Giga Impact is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. The user charges at the foe using every bit of its power. The user must rest on the next turn. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user must rest on the next turn. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user charges at the target using every bit of its power. The user can't move on the next turn.
Nasty Plot is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Special Attack by two stages. The user stimulates its brain by thinking bad thoughts. It sharply raises the user’s Sp. Atk. The user stimulates its brain by thinking bad thoughts. This sharply raises the user’s Sp. Atk. The user stimulates its brain by thinking bad thoughts. This sharply raises the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user stimulates its brain by thinking bad thoughts, raising the user's offensive stats. The user stimulates its brain by thinking bad thoughts. This sharply boosts the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Bullet Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user strikes with a tough punch as fast as a bullet. This move always goes first. The user strikes the target with tough punches as fast as bullets. This move always goes first. The user strikes the target with tough punches as fast as bullets. This also raises the user’s action speed.
Avalanche is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target damaged the user this turn and was the last to do so, this move has double power. pain split does not count as damaging the user. An attack move that inflicts double the damage if the user has been hurt by the foe in the same turn. An attack move that inflicts double the damage if the user has been hurt by the target in the same turn. The power of this attack move is doubled if the user has been hurt by the target in the same turn. This move's power is doubled if the target has inflicted damage on the user in the same turn.
Ice Shard is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user flash freezes chunks of ice and hurls them. This move always goes first. The user flash freezes chunks of ice and hurls them at the target. This move always goes first. The user flash-freezes chunks of ice and hurls them at the target. This move always goes first. The user flash-freezes chunks of ice and hurls them at the target. This also raises the user's action speed.
Shadow Claw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user slashes with a sharp claw made from shadows. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user slashes with a sharp claw made from shadows. Critical hits land more easily. The user slashes with a sharp claw made from shadows. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user attacks by slashing the target with a sharp claw made from shadows. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Thunder Fang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target and a separate $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user bites with electrified fangs. It may also make the foe flinch or become paralyzed. The user bites with electrified fangs. It may also make the target flinch or leave it with paralysis. The user bites with electrified fangs. This may also make the target flinch or leave it with paralysis. The user bites the target with electrified fangs to deal damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Ice Fang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to freeze the target and a separate $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user bites with cold-infused fangs. It may also make the foe flinch or freeze. The user bites with cold-infused fangs. It may also make the target flinch or leave it frozen. The user bites with cold-infused fangs. This may also make the target flinch or leave it frozen. The user bites the target with cold-infused fangs to deal damage. This may also leave the target with frostbite.
Fire Fang is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target and a separate $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user bites with flame-cloaked fangs. It may also make the foe flinch or sustain a burn. The user bites with flame-cloaked fangs. It may also make the target flinch or leave it burned. The user bites with flame-cloaked fangs. This may also make the target flinch or leave it with a burn. The user bites the target with flame-cloaked fangs to deal damage. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Shadow Sneak is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user extends its shadow and attacks the foe from behind. This move always goes first. The user extends its shadow and attacks the target from behind. This move always goes first. The user extends its shadow and attacks the target from behind. This also raises the user’s action speed.
Mud Bomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. The user launches a hard-packed mud ball to attack. It may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user launches a hard-packed mud ball to attack. This may also lower the target’s accuracy. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Psycho Cut is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user tears at the foe with blades formed by psychic power. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user tears at the target with blades formed by psychic power. Critical hits land more easily. The user tears at the target with blades formed by psychic power. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Zen Headbutt is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user focuses its willpower to its head and rams the foe. It may also make the target flinch. The user focuses its willpower to its head and attacks the target. It may also make the target flinch. The user focuses its willpower to its head and attacks the target. This may also make the target flinch. The user focuses its willpower to its head and attacks the target.
Mirror Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. The user looses a flash of energy from its polished body. It may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user looses a flash of energy at the target from its polished body. It may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user lets loose a flash of energy at the target from its polished body. This may also lower the target’s accuracy. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Flash Cannon is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by one stage. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. It may also lower the foe’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it all at once. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user gathers all its light energy and releases it at once. This may also lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Rock Climb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. A charging attack that may also leave the foe confused. It can also be used to scale rocky walls. The user attacks the target by smashing into it with incredible force. It may also confuse the target. The user attacks the target by smashing into it with incredible force. This may also confuse the target. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Defog is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s evasion by one stage. Clears away fog. Removes the effects of mist, light screen, reflect, safeguard, spikes, stealth rock, and toxic spikes from the target’s side of the field. If the target is protected by mist, it will prevent the evasion change, then be removed by this move. Obstacles are moved, reducing the foe’s evasion stat. It can also be used to clear deep fog, etc. It reduces the foe’s evasion stat. It also removes spikes, light screens, etc. A strong wind blows away the target’s obstacles such as Reflect or Light Screen. It also lowers the target’s evasiveness. A strong wind blows away the target’s barriers such as Reflect or Light Screen. This also lowers the target’s evasiveness. A strong wind blows away the target's barriers such as Reflect or Light Screen. This also lowers the target's evasiveness.
Trick Room is a Pokémon move. For five turns (including this one), slower Pokémon will act before faster Pokémon. Move priority is not affected. Using this move when its effect is already active will end the effect. Pokémon holding full incense, lagging tail, or quick claw and Pokémon with stall ignore this effect. The user creates a bizarre area in which slower Pokémon get to move first for five turns.
Draco Meteor is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Special Attack by two stages. Comets are summoned down from the sky. The attack’s recoil sharply reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. Comets are summoned down from the sky onto the target. The attack’s recoil harshly reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. Comets are summoned down from the sky onto the target. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat. Comets are summoned down from the sky onto the target. The recoil from this move lowers the user’s offensive stats. Comets are summoned down from the sky onto the target. The recoil from this move harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat.
Discharge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. A flare of electricity is loosed to strike all Pokémon in battle. It may also cause paralysis. A flare of electricity is loosed to strike the area around the user. It may also cause paralysis. The user strikes everything around it by letting loose a flare of electricity. This may also cause paralysis. The user strikes everything around it by letting loose a flare of electricity. This may also leave those hit by the attack with paralysis.
Lava Plume is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. An inferno of scarlet flames washes over all Pokémon in battle. It may also inflict burns. An inferno of scarlet flames torches everything around the user. It may leave targets with a burn. The user torches everything around it with an inferno of scarlet flames. This may also leave those hit with a burn. The user torches everything around it in an inferno of scarlet flames. This may also leave those it hits with a burn.
Leaf Storm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Special Attack by two stages. A storm of sharp leaves is whipped up. The attack’s recoil sharply reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user whips up a storm of leaves around the target. The attack’s recoil harshly reduces the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user whips up a storm of leaves around the target. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user whips up a storm of leaves around the target. The recoil from this move lowers the user’s offensive stats. The user whips up a storm of leaves around the target. The recoil from this move harshly lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Power Whip is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user violently whirls its vines or tentacles to harshly lash the foe. The user violently whirls its vines or tentacles to harshly lash the target. The user violently whirls its vines, tentacles, or the like to harshly lash the target. The user violently whirls its vines, tentacles, or the like to lash the target.
Rock Wrecker is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. The user launches a huge boulder at the foe to attack. It must rest on the next turn, however. The user launches a huge boulder at the target to attack. It must rest on the next turn, however. The user launches a huge boulder at the target to attack. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user launches a huge boulder at the target to attack. The user can't move on the next turn.
Cross Poison is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. A slashing attack that may also leave the target poisoned. It has a high critical-hit ratio. A slashing attack with a poisonous blade that may also leave the target poisoned. Critical hits land more easily. A slashing attack with a poisonous blade that may also poison the target. Critical hits land more easily. A slashing attack with a toxic blade that may also poison the target. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. A slashing attack with a poisonous blade that may also poison the target. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Gunk Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. The user shoots filthy garbage at the foe to attack. It may also poison the target. The user shoots filthy garbage at the target to attack. It may also poison the target. The user shoots filthy garbage at the target to attack. This may also poison the target.
Iron Head is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The foe slams the target with its steel-hard head. It may also make the target flinch. The user slams the target with its steel-hard head. It may also make the target flinch. The user slams the target with its steel-hard head. This may also make the target flinch. The user slams the target with its steel-hard head.
Magnet Bomb is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. The user launches a steel bomb that sticks to the target. This attack will not miss. The user launches steel bombs that stick to the target. This attack will not miss. The user launches steel bombs that stick to the target. This attack never misses. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Stone Edge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user stabs the foe with a sharpened stone. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user stabs the foe with sharpened stones from below. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user stabs the target with sharpened stones from below. Critical hits land more easily. The user stabs the target from below with sharpened stones. Critical hits land more easily. The user stabs the target with sharpened stones. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Captivate is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Special Attack by two stages. If the user and target are the same gender, or either is genderless, this move will fail. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the foe is charmed into sharply lowering its Sp. Atk stat. If it is the opposite gender of the user, the target is charmed into harshly lowering its Sp. Atk stat. If any opposing Pokémon is the opposite gender of the user, it is charmed, which harshly lowers its Sp. Atk stat. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Stealth Rock is a Pokémon move. Spreads sharp rocks around the opposing field, damaging any Pokémon that enters the field for 1/8 its max HP. This damage is affected by the entering Pokémon’s susceptibility to rock moves. rapid spin removes this effect from its user’s side of the field. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the foe. The trap hurts foes that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the opponent’s team. The trap hurts opponents that switch into battle. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the opposing team. The trap hurts opposing Pokémon that switch into battle. The user launches countless stones at the target. Stone splinters left behind by this attack continue to damage the target for several turns. The user lays a trap of levitating stones around the opposing team. The trap damages opposing Pokémon that switch into battle.
Grass Knot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power increases with the target’s weight in kilograms, to a maximum of 120. Target’s weight | Power --------------- | ----: Up to 10kg | 20 Up to 25kg | 40 Up to 50kg | 60 Up to 100kg | 80 Up to 200kg | 100 Above 200kg | 120 The user snares the foe with grass and trips it. The heavier the foe, the greater the damage. The user snares the target with grass and trips it. The heavier the target, the greater the damage. The user snares the target with grass and trips it. The heavier the target, the greater the move’s power. The user snares the target with grass and trips it. The heavier the target, the greater the move's power.
Chatter is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has either a 1%, 11%, or 31% chance to confuse the target, based on the volume of the recording made for this move; louder recordings increase the chance of confusion. If the user is not a chatot, this move will not cause confusion. This move cannot be copied by mimic, mirror move, or sketch, nor selected by assist, metronome, or sleep talk. The user attacks using a sound wave based on words it has learned. It may also confuse the foe. The user attacks using a sound wave based on words it has learned. It may also confuse the target. The user attacks using a sound wave based on words it has learned. This confuses the target. The user attacks the target with sound waves of deafening chatter. This confuses the target.
Judgment is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user is holding a plate or a drive, this move’s type is the type corresponding to that item. Note: This effect is technically shared by both techno blast and judgment; however, Techno Blast is only affected by drives, and Judgment is only affected by plates. The user releases countless shots of light. Its type varies with the kind of Plate the user is holding. The user releases countless shots of light at the target. Its type varies with the kind of Plate the user is holding. The user releases countless shots of light at the target. This move’s type varies depending on the kind of Plate the user is holding. The user releases countless shots of light at the target. This move's type varies depending on the kind of Plate the user last interacted with. The user releases countless shots of light at the target. This move's type changes depending on the kind of plate held by the user.
Bug Bite is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is holding a berry, this move has double power, and the user takes the berry and uses it immediately. If the target is holding a jaboca berry or rowap berry, the berry is still removed, but has no effect. If this move is super effective and the target is holding a berry that can reduce this move’s damage, it will do so, and will not be stolen. The user bites the foe. If the foe is holding a Berry, the user eats it and gains its effect. The user bites the target. If the target is holding a Berry, the user eats it and gains its effect. The user attacks by biting the target. If the target is holding a Berry, the user eats it and gains its effect.
Charge Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise the user’s Special Attack by one stage. The user fires a concentrated bundle of electricity. It may also raise the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks with an electric charge. The user may use any remaining electricity to raise its Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target with an electric charge. The user may use any remaining electricity to raise its Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target with an electric charge. The leftover electricity may also raise the user’s offensive stats. The user attacks the target with an electric charge. The residual electricity may also boost the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Wood Hammer is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/3 the damage it inflicts in recoil. The user slams its rugged body into the foe to attack. The user also sustains serious damage. The user slams its rugged body into the target to attack. The user also sustains serious damage. The user slams its rugged body into the target to attack. This also damages the user quite a lot. The user slams its rugged body into the target to attack. This also damages the user.
Aqua Jet is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user lunges at the foe at a speed that makes it almost invisible. It is sure to strike first. The user lunges at the target at a speed that makes it almost invisible. It is sure to strike first. The user lunges at the target at a speed that makes it almost invisible. This move always goes first. The user lunges at the target to deal damage, moving at a speed that makes it almost invisible. This also raises the user's action speed. The user lunges at the target to inflict damage, moving at blinding speed. This move always goes first.
Attack Order is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user calls out its underlings to pummel the target. Critical hits land more easily. The user calls out its underlings to pummel the foe. It has a high critical-hit ratio. The user calls out its underlings to pummel the target. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Defend Order is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense and Special Defense by one stage. The user calls out its underlings to make a living shield, raising its Defense and Sp. Def stats. The user calls out its underlings to shield its body, raising its Defense and Sp. Def stats. The user calls out its underlings to shield its body, boosting its Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Heal Order is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half its max HP. The user calls out its underlings to heal it. The user regains up to half of its max HP. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Head Smash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/2 the damage it inflicts in recoil. The user delivers a life-endangering head butt at full power. The user also takes terrible damage. The user delivers a life-endangering attack at full power. The user also takes terrible damage. The user attacks the target with a hazardous, full-power headbutt. The user also takes terrible damage. The user attacks the target with a hazardous, full-power headbutt. This also damages the user terribly. The user attacks the target with a hazardous, full-power headbutt. This also damages the user. The user attacks the target with a hazardous full-power headbutt. This also damages the user terribly.
Double Hit is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn. The user slams the foe with a tail, etc. The target is hit twice in a row. The user slams the foe with a long tail, vines, etc. The target is hit twice in a row. The user slams the target with a long tail, vines, or tentacle. The target is hit twice in a row. The user slams the target with a long tail, vines, or a tentacle. The target is hit twice in a row. The user adapts a hard-hitting stance to increase the damage dealt by its moves by 50 percent. The user slams the target with a tail or the like. The target is hit twice in a row.
Roar Of Time is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. The user blasts the foe with power that distorts even time. The user must rest on the next turn. The user blasts the target with power that distorts even time. The user must rest on the next turn. The user blasts the target with power that distorts even time. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user blasts the target with power that distorts even time. The user blasts the target with power that distorts even time. The user can't move on the next turn.
Spacial Rend is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user tears the foe along with the space around it. This move has a high critical-hit ratio. The user tears the target along with the space around it. Critical hits land more easily. The user tears the target along with the space around it. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Lunar Dance is a Pokémon move. User faints. Its replacement’s HP and PP are fully restored, and any major status effect is removed. The user faints. In return, the Pokémon taking its place will have its status and HP fully restored. The user faints. In return, the Pokémon taking its place will have its HP and PP restored and its status conditions cured.
Crush Grip is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power directly relates to the target’s relative remaining HP, given by `1 + 120 * current HP / max HP`, to a maximum of 121. The foe is crushed with great force. The attack is more powerful the more HP the foe has left. The target is crushed with great force. The attack is more powerful the more HP the target has left. The target is crushed with great force. The more HP the target has left, the greater this move’s power. The target is crushed with great force. The more HP the target has left, the greater this move's power. The target is crushed with great force. The more HP the target has left, the greater the move's power.
Magma Storm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. The foe becomes trapped within a maelstrom of fire that rages for two to five turns. The target becomes trapped within a maelstrom of fire that rages for four to five turns. The user envelops the target in a maelstrom of fire. This also leaves the target with a burn. The user traps the target inside a maelstrom of fire that inflicts damage for four to five turns.
Dark Void is a Pokémon move. Puts the target to sleep. The foe is dragged into a world of total darkness that puts it to sleep. Opposing Pokémon are dragged into a world of total darkness that makes them sleep. The target is dragged into a world of total darkness that makes the target drowsy and lowers its defensive stats. Opposing Pokémon are dragged into a world of total darkness that puts them to sleep.
Seed Flare is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Defense by two stages. The user generates a shock wave from within its body. It may also lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user emits a shock wave from its body to attack its target. It may harshly lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user emits a shock wave from its body to attack its target. This may also harshly lower the target’s Sp. Def. The user emits a shock wave from its body to attack its target. This may also harshly lower the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user emits a shock wave from its body to attack its target. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user emits a shock wave from its body to attack its target. This may also harshly lower the target's Sp. Def stat.
Ominous Wind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise all of the user’s stats one stage. The user creates a gust of repulsive wind. It may also raise all the user’s stats at once. The user blasts the target with a gust of repulsive wind. It may also raise all the user’s stats at once. The user blasts the target with a gust of repulsive wind. This may also raise all the user’s stats at once. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shadow Force is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User vanishes for one turn, becoming immune to attack, and hits on the second turn. This move ignores the effects of detect and protect. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. The user disappears, then strikes the foe on the second turn. It hits even if the foe used Protect. The user disappears, then strikes the foe on the second turn. It hits even if the foe protects itself. The user disappears, then strikes the target on the second turn. It hits even if the target protects itself. The user disappears, then strikes the target on the next turn. This move hits even if the target protects itself. The user cloaks itself in darkness as it attacks. Incoming moves also become more likely to miss. The user disappears on the first turn, then attacks on the next turn. This move hits even if the target protects itself.
Hone Claws is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack and accuracy by one stage. The user sharpens its claws to boost its Attack stat and accuracy.
Wide Guard is a Pokémon move. Moves with multiple targets will not hit friendly Pokémon for the remainder of this turn. If the user is last to act this turn, this move will fail. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. The user and its allies are protected from wide-ranging attacks for one turn. If used in succession, its chance of failing rises. The user and its allies are protected from wide-ranging attacks for one turn.
Guard Split is a Pokémon move. Averages the user’s unmodified Defense with the target’s unmodified Defense; the value becomes the unmodified Defense for both Pokémon. Unmodified Special Defense is averaged the same way. The user employs its psychic power to average its Defense and Sp. Def stats with those of its target’s. The user employs its psychic power to average its Defense and Sp. Def stats with those of the target.
Power Split is a Pokémon move. Averages the user’s unmodified Attack with the target’s unmodified Attack; the value becomes the unmodified Attack for both Pokémon. Unmodified Special Attack is averaged the same way. This effect applies before any other persistent changes to unmodified Attack or Special Attack, such as flower gift during sunny day. The user employs its psychic power to average its Attack and Sp. Atk stats with those of the target’s. The user employs its psychic power to average its Attack and Sp. Atk stats with those of the target.
Wonder Room is a Pokémon move. For five turns (including this one), every Pokémon’s Defense and Special Defense are swapped. The user creates a bizarre area in which Pokémon’s Defense and Sp. Def stats are swapped for five turns. The user creates a bizarre area in which Pokémon's Defense and Sp. Def stats are swapped for five turns.
Psyshock is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage calculation always uses the target’s Defense, regardless of this move’s damage class. The user materializes an odd psychic wave to attack the target. This attack does physical damage. The user materializes an odd psychic wave to attack the target. This move deals physical damage.
Venoshock is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is poisoned, this move has double power. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid. Its power is doubled if the target is poisoned. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid. This move’s power is doubled if the target is poisoned. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid to inflict damage. This move’s power is doubled if the target has a status condition. The user drenches the target in a special poisonous liquid. This move's power is doubled if the target is poisoned.
Autotomize is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Speed by two stages. Halves the user’s weight; this effect does not stack. The user sheds part of its body to make itself lighter and sharply raise its Speed stat.
Rage Powder is a Pokémon move. Until the end of this turn, any moves that opposing Pokémon target solely at the user’s ally will instead target the user. If both Pokémon on the same side of the field use this move on the same turn, the Pokémon that uses it last will become the target. This effect takes priority over lightning rod and storm drain. If the user’s ally switches out, opposing Pokémon may still hit it with pursuit. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. The user scatters a cloud of irritating powder to draw attention to itself. Opponents aim only at the user. The user scatters a cloud of irritating powder to draw attention to itself. Opposing Pokémon aim only at the user.
Telekinesis is a Pokémon move. For three turns (including this one), moves used against the target have 100% accuracy, but the target is immune to ground damage. Accuracy of one-hit KO moves is exempt from this effect. This effect is removed by gravity. If Gravity is already in effect, this move will fail. The user makes the target float with its psychic power. The target is easier to hit for three turns. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Magic Room is a Pokémon move. For five turns (including this one), passive effects of held items are ignored, and Pokémon will not use their held items. The user creates a bizarre area in which Pokémon’s held items lose their effects for five turns. The user creates a bizarre area in which Pokémon's held items lose their effects for five turns.
Smack Down is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Removes the target’s immunity to ground-type damage. This effect removes any existing Ground immunity due to levitate, magnet rise, or telekinesis, and causes the target’s flying type to be ignored when it takes Ground damage. If the target isn’t immune to Ground damage, this move will fail. This move can hit Pokémon under the effect of bounce, fly, or sky drop, and ends the effect of Bounce or Fly. The user throws a stone or projectile to attack an opponent. A flying Pokémon will fall to the ground when hit. The user throws a stone or similar projectile to attack an opponent. A flying Pokémon will fall to the ground when it’s hit. The user throws a stone or similar projectile to attack the target. A flying Pokémon will fall to the ground when it’s hit. The user throws a stone or similar projectile to attack the target. A flying Pokémon will fall to the ground when it's hit. The user throws a stone or similar projectile to attack the target. If the target is in the air, it will be knocked down to the ground.
Storm Throw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Always scores a critical hit. The user strikes the target with a fierce blow. This attack always results in a critical hit.
Flame Burst is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If this move successfully hits the target, any Pokémon adjacent to the target are damaged for 1/16 their max HP. The user attacks the target with a bursting flame. The bursting flame damages Pokémon next to the target as well. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sludge Wave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to poison the target. It swamps the area around the user with a giant sludge wave. It may also poison those hit. The user strikes everything around it by swamping the area with a giant sludge wave. This may also poison those hit. The user strikes everything around it by swamping the area with a giant sludge wave. This may also poison those it hits.
Quiver Dance is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. The user lightly performs a beautiful, mystic dance. It boosts the user’s Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Speed stats. The user lightly performs a beautiful, mystic dance. This boosts the user’s Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Speed stats. The user lightly performs a beautiful, mystic dance. This boosts the user's Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Speed stats.
Heavy Slam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The greater the user’s weight compared to the target’s, the higher power this move has, to a maximum of 120. User’s weight | Power -------------------------------- | ----: Up to 2× the target’s weight | 40 Up to 3× the target’s weight | 60 Up to 4× the target’s weight | 80 Up to 5× the target’s weight | 100 More than 5× the target’s weight | 120 The user slams into the target with its heavy body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater its damage. The user slams into the target with its heavy body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move’s power. The user slams into the target with its heavy body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move's power.
Synchronoise is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Only Pokémon that share a type with the user will take damage from this move. Using an odd shock wave, the user inflicts damage on any Pokémon of the same type in the area around it. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Electro Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The greater the user’s Speed compared to the target’s, the higher power this move has, to a maximum of 150. User’s Speed | Power -------------------------------- | ----: Up to 2× the target’s Speed | 60 Up to 3× the target’s Speed | 80 Up to 4× the target’s Speed | 120 More than 4× the target’s Speed | 150 The user hurls an electric orb at the target. The faster the user is than the target, the greater the damage. The user hurls an electric orb at the target. The faster the user is than the target, the greater the move’s power. The user hurls an electric orb at the target. The faster the user is than the target, the greater the move's power.
Soak is a Pokémon move. Changes the target to pure water-type until it leaves the field. If the target has multitype, this move will fail. The user shoots a torrent of water at the target and changes the target’s type to Water. The user shoots a torrent of water at the target and changes the target's type to Water. The user shoots a torrent of water that changes the target's type to Water.
Flame Charge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Raises the user’s Speed by one stage. The user cloaks itself with flame and attacks. Building up more power, it raises the user’s Speed stat. Cloaking itself in flame, the user attacks. Then, building up more power, the user raises its Speed stat. Cloaking itself in flame, the user attacks the target. Then, building up more power, the user raises its Speed stat. Cloaking itself in flame, the user attacks the target. Then, building up momentum, the user boosts its Speed stat.
Coil is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack, Defense, and accuracy by one stage each. The user coils up and concentrates. This raises its Attack and Defense stats as well as its accuracy. The user coils up and concentrates. This boosts its Attack and Defense stats as well as its accuracy.
Low Sweep is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Speed by one stage. The user attacks the target’s legs swiftly, reducing the target’s Speed stat. The user makes a swift attack on the target’s legs, which lowers the target’s Speed stat. The user makes a swift attack on the target's legs, which lowers the target's Speed stat.
Acid Spray is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Special Defense by two stages. The user spits fluid that works to melt the target. This harshly reduces the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user spits fluid that works to melt the target. This harshly lowers the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user spits fluid that works to melt the target. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user attacks by spitting fluid that works to melt the target. This also harshly lowers the target's Sp. Def stat.
Foul Play is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage is calculated using the target’s attacking stat rather than the user’s. The user turns the target’s power against it. The higher the target’s Attack stat, the greater the damage. The user turns the target’s power against it. The higher the target’s Attack stat, the greater the move’s power. The user turns the target’s power against it. The higher the target’s Attack stat, the greater the damage it deals. The user turns the target's power against it. The higher the target's Attack stat, the greater the damage it deals. The user turns the target's strength against it. The higher the target's Attack stat, the greater the damage this move inflicts.
Simple Beam is a Pokémon move. Changes the target’s ability to simple. The user’s mysterious psychic wave changes the target’s Ability to Simple. The user's mysterious psychic wave changes the target's Ability to Simple. The user emits a mysterious psychic wave that changes the target's Ability to Simple.
Entrainment is a Pokémon move. Changes the target’s ability to match the user’s. This effect ends when the target leaves battle. The user dances with an odd rhythm that compels the target to mimic it, making the target’s Ability the same as the user’s. The user dances with an odd rhythm that compels the target to mimic it, making the target's Ability the same as the user's.
After You is a Pokémon move. The target will act next this turn, regardless of Speed or move priority. If the target has already acted this turn, this move will fail. The user helps the target and makes it use its move right after the user.
Round is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If round has already been used this turn, this move’s power is doubled. After this move is used, any other Pokémon using it this turn will immediately do so (in the order they would otherwise act), regardless of Speed or priority. Pokémon using other moves will then continue to act as usual. The user attacks the target with a song. Others can join in the Round and make the attack do greater damage. The user attacks the target with a song. Others can join in the Round to increase the power of the attack. The user attacks the target with a song. If others use this move, they will act immediately after the initial user, and the power of their Rounds will be boosted.
Echoed Voice is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If any friendly Pokémon used this move earlier this turn or on the previous turn, that use’s power is added to this move’s power, to a maximum of 200. The user attacks the target with an echoing voice. If this move is used every turn, it does greater damage. The user attacks the target with an echoing voice. If this move is used every turn, its power is increased. The user attacks the target with an echoing voice. If this move is used consecutively by any Pokémon, its power is boosted.
Chip Away is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage calculation ignores the target’s stat modifiers, including evasion. Looking for an opening, the user strikes continually. The target’s stat changes don’t affect this attack’s damage. Looking for an opening, the user strikes consistently. The target’s stat changes don’t affect this attack’s damage. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Clear Smog is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. All of the target’s stat modifiers are reset to zero. The user attacks by throwing a clump of special mud. All status changes are returned to normal. The user attacks by throwing a clump of special mud. All stat changes are returned to normal. The user attacks the target by throwing a clump of special mud. All stat changes are returned to normal. The user attacks the target by throwing a clump of special mud. All stat changes are eliminated.
Stored Power is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power is increased by 100% its original value for every stage any of the user’s stats have been raised. Accuracy, evasion, and lowered stats do not affect this move’s power. For a Pokémon with all five stats modified to +6, this move’s power is 31×. The user attacks the target with stored power. The more the user’s stats are raised, the greater the damage. The user attacks the target with stored power. The more the user’s stats are raised, the greater the move’s power. The user attacks the target with stored power. The more the user's stats are raised, the greater the move's power. The user attacks the target with stored power. The more the user's stats are boosted, the greater the move's power.
Quick Guard is a Pokémon move. Moves with priority greater than 0 will not hit friendly Pokémon for the remainder of this turn. If the user is last to act this turn, this move will fail. This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. The user protects itself and its allies from priority moves. If used in succession, its chance of failing rises. The user protects itself and its allies from priority moves.
Ally Switch is a Pokémon move. User switches position on the field with the friendly Pokémon opposite it. If the user is in the middle position in a triple battle, or there are no other friendly Pokémon, this move will fail. The user teleports using a strange power and switches its place with one of its allies. The user teleports using a strange power and switches places with one of its allies. The user teleports using a strange power and switches places with one of its allies. This move's chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Scald is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The user shoots boiling hot water at its target. It may also leave the target with a burn. The user shoots boiling hot water at its target. This may also leave the target with a burn. The user attacks by shooting boiling hot water at the target. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Shell Smash is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack, Special Attack, and Speed by two stages each. Lowers the user’s Defense and Special Defense by one stage each. The user breaks its shell, lowering its Defense and Sp. Def stats but sharply raising Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats. The user breaks its shell, which lowers Defense and Sp. Def stats but sharply raises its Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats. The user breaks its shell, which lowers its Defense and Sp. Def stats but sharply boosts its Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats.
Heal Pulse is a Pokémon move. Heals the target for half its max HP. The user emits a healing pulse which restores the target’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The user emits a healing pulse that restores the target’s HP by up to half of its max HP. The user emits a healing pulse that restores the target's HP by up to half of its max HP. The user emits a healing pulse that restores the target's HP by up to half its max HP.
Hex is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target has a major status ailment, this move has double power. This relentless attack does massive damage to a target affected by status problems. This relentless attack does massive damage to a target affected by status conditions. The user attacks with relentless intensity. This move's power is doubled if the target has a status condition.
Sky Drop is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User carries the target high into the air for one turn, during which no moves will hit either Pokémon and neither can act. On the following turn, the user drops the target, inflicting damage and ending the effect. If the target is flying-type, this move will function as normal but inflict no damage. gust, hurricane, sky uppercut, smack down, thunder, twister, and whirlwind can hit both the user and the target during this effect. gust and twister will additionally have double power. The damage from hail and sandstorm still applies during this effect. Either Pokémon may be hit during this effect if also under the effect of lock on, mind reader, or no guard. This move cannot be used while gravity is in effect. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. *Bug*: If gravity is used during a double or triple battle while this move is in effect, this move is not correctly canceled on the target, and it remains high in the air indefinitely. As this move prevents the target from acting, the only way to subsequently remove it from the field is to faint it. The user takes the target into the sky, then drops it during the next turn. The target cannot attack while in the sky. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shift Gear is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack by one stage and its Speed by two stages. The user rotates its gears, raising its Attack and sharply raising its Speed. The user rotates its gears, raising its Attack stat and sharply raising its Speed stat. The user rotates its gears, boosting its Attack stat and sharply boosting its Speed stat.
Circle Throw is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then switches the target out for another of its trainer’s Pokémon, selected at random. If the target is under the effect of ingrain or suction cups, or it has a substitute, or its Trainer has no more usable Pokémon, it will not be switched out. If the target is a wild Pokémon, the battle ends instead. The user throws the target and drags out another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is thrown and switched. In the wild, a battle against a single Pokémon ends. The target is thrown, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon.
Incinerate is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target is holding a berry, it’s destroyed and cannot be used in response to this move. The user attacks the target with fire. If the target is holding a Berry, the Berry becomes burnt up and unusable. The user attacks opposing Pokémon with fire. If a Pokémon is holding a certain item, such as a Berry, the item becomes burned up and unusable.
Quash is a Pokémon move. Forces the target to act last this turn, regardless of Speed or move priority. If the target has already acted this turn, this move will fail. The user suppresses the target and makes its move go last.
Acrobatics is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user has no held item, this move has double power. The user nimbly strikes the target. If the user is not holding an item, this attack inflicts massive damage. The user nimbly strikes the target. This attack does massive damage if the user isn't holding an item.
Reflect Type is a Pokémon move. User’s type changes to match the target’s. The user reflects the target’s type, making it the same type as the target. The user reflects the target’s type, making the user the same type as the target. The user reflects the target's type, making the user the same type as the target. The user reflects the target's type to become the same type as the target.
Retaliate is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a friendly Pokémon fainted on the previous turn, this move has double power. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this attack’s damage increases. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this move becomes more powerful. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this move’s power is increased. The user gets revenge for a fainted ally. If an ally fainted in the previous turn, this move's power is increased. The user takes revenge for a fainted ally. This move's power is boosted if an ally fainted in the previous turn.
Final Gambit is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage equal to the user’s remaining HP. User faints. The user risks everything to attack its target. The user faints but does damage equal to the user’s HP. The user risks everything to attack its target. The user faints but does damage equal to its HP. The user risks everything to attack the target. The user faints but inflicts damage equal to its own HP.
Bestow is a Pokémon move. Transfers the user’s held item to the target. If the user has no held item, or the target already has a held item, this move will fail. The user passes its held item to the target when the target isn’t holding an item. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Inferno is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The user attacks by engulfing the target in an intense fire. It leaves the target with a burn. The user attacks by engulfing the target in an intense fire. This leaves the target with a burn.
Water Pledge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a friendly Pokémon used grass pledge earlier this turn, all opposing Pokémon have halved Speed for four turns (including this one). A column of water strikes the target. When combined with its fire equivalent, the damage increases and a rainbow appears. A column of water strikes the target. When combined with its fire equivalent, its power increases and a rainbow appears. A column of water hits the target. When used with its fire equivalent, its power increases and a rainbow appears. A column of water hits the target. When used with its fire counterpart, this move's power is boosted and a rainbow appears.
Fire Pledge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a friendly Pokémon used water pledge earlier this turn, moves used by any friendly Pokémon have doubled effect chance for four turns (including this one). A column of fire hits opposing Pokémon. When used with its Grass equivalent, its damage increases into a vast sea of fire. A column of fire hits the target. When used with its grass equivalent, its damage increases and a vast sea of fire appears. A column of fire hits the target. When used with its grass equivalent, its power increases and a vast sea of fire appears. A column of fire hits the target. When used with its grass counterpart, this move's power is boosted and a vast sea of fire appears.
Grass Pledge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a friendly Pokémon used fire pledge earlier this turn, all opposing Pokémon will take 1/8 their max HP in damage at the end of every turn for four turns (including this one). A column of grass hits opposing Pokémon. When used with its water equivalent, its damage increases into a vast swamp. A column of grass hits the target. When used with its water equivalent, its damage increases and a vast swamp appears. A column of grass hits the target. When used with its water equivalent, its power increases and a vast swamp appears. A column of grass hits the target. When used with its water counterpart, this move's power is boosted and a vast swamp appears.
Volt Switch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then the user immediately switches out, and the trainer selects a replacement Pokémon from the party. If the target faints from this attack, the user’s trainer selects the new Pokémon to send out first. If the user is the last Pokémon in its party that can battle, it will not switch out. The user may be hit by pursuit when it switches out, if it has been targeted and pursuit has not yet been used. This move may be used even if the user is under the effect of ingrain. ingrain’s effect will end. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Struggle Bug is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Attack by one stage. While resisting, the user attacks the opposing Pokémon. The targets’ Sp. Atk stat is reduced. While resisting, the user attacks the opposing Pokémon. This lowers the Sp. Atk stat of those hit. While resisting, the user attacks opposing Pokémon. This lowers the Sp. Atk stats of those hit. The user struggles against the target, dealing damage. This also lowers the target's offensive stats. The user attacks by struggling against opposing Pokémon. This also lowers their Sp. Atk stats.
Bulldoze is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. The user stomps down on the ground and attacks everything in the area. Hit Pokémon’s Speed stat is reduced. The user strikes everything around it by stomping down on the ground. This lowers the Speed stat of those hit. The user strikes everything around it by stomping down on the ground. This lowers the Speed stats of those hit. The user tramples its target into the ground, dealing damage. This also lowers the target’s action speed.
Frost Breath is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Always scores a critical hit. The user blows a cold breath on the target. This attack always results in a critical hit. The user blows its cold breath on the target. This attack always results in a critical hit. The user attacks by blowing its cold breath on the target. This move always lands a critical hit.
Dragon Tail is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then switches the target out for another of its trainer’s Pokémon, selected at random. If the target is under the effect of ingrain or suction cups, or it has a substitute, or its Trainer has no more usable Pokémon, it will not be switched out. If the target is a wild Pokémon, the battle ends instead. The user knocks away the target and drags out another Pokémon in its party. In the wild, the battle ends. The target is knocked away and switched. In the wild, a battle against a single Pokémon ends. The target is knocked away, and a different Pokémon is dragged out. In the wild, this ends a battle against a single Pokémon. The target is knocked away, and a different Pokémon is dragged out.
Work Up is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack and Special Attack by one stage each. The user is roused, and its Attack and Sp. Atk stats increase. The user is roused, and its Attack and Sp. Atk stats are boosted.
Electroweb is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Speed by one stage. The user captures and attacks opposing Pokémon by using an electric net. It reduces the targets’ Speed stat. The user attacks and captures opposing Pokémon using an electric net. This lowers their Speed stat. The user attacks and captures opposing Pokémon using an electric net. This lowers their Speed stats. The user captures opposing Pokémon in an electric net to inflict damage. This also lowers their Speed stats.
Wild Charge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/4 the damage it inflicts in recoil. The user shrouds itself in electricity and smashes into its target. It also damages the user a little. The user shrouds itself in electricity and smashes into its target. This also damages the user a little. The user shrouds itself in electricity and smashes into its target. This also damages the user and may leave the target with paralysis.
Drill Run is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move. The user crashes into its target while rotating its body like a drill. Critical hits land more easily. The user crashes into the target while rotating its body like a drill. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Dual Chop is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn. The user attacks its target by hitting it with brutal strikes. The target is hit twice in a row.
Heart Stamp is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user unleashes a vicious blow after its cute act makes the target less wary. It may also make the target flinch. The user unleashes a vicious blow after its cute act makes the target less wary. This may also make the target flinch. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Horn Leech is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Drains half the damage inflicted to heal the user. The user drains the target’s energy with its horns. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user drains the target's energy with its horns. The user's HP is restored by half the damage taken by the target. The user drains the target's energy with its horns. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Sacred Sword is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage calculation ignores the target’s stat modifiers, including evasion. The user attacks by slicing with its long horns. The target’s stat changes don’t affect this attack’s damage. The user attacks by slicing with a long horn. The target’s stat changes don’t affect this attack’s damage. The user attacks by slicing with a long horn. The target's stat changes don't affect this attack's damage. The user attacks by slicing with a sword. The target's stat changes don't affect the damage inflicted by this move.
Razor Shell is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. The user cuts its target with sharp shells. This attack may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user cuts its target with sharp shells. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user cuts its target with sharp shells. This may also lower the target's Defense stat. The user cuts the target with sharp shells to inflict damage. This may also lower the target's Defense stat.
Heat Crash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The greater the user’s weight compared to the target’s, the higher power this move has, to a maximum of 120. User’s weight | Power -------------------------------- | ----: Up to 2× the target’s weight | 40 Up to 3× the target’s weight | 60 Up to 4× the target’s weight | 80 Up to 5× the target’s weight | 100 More than 5× the target’s weight | 120 The user slams its target with its flame- covered body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the damage. The user slams its target with its flame- covered body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move’s power. The user slams its target with its flame-covered body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move’s power. The user slams its target with its flame-covered body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move's power. The user slams into the target with its flame-covered body. The more the user outweighs the target, the greater the move's power.
Leaf Tornado is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. The user attacks its target by encircling it in sharp leaves. This attack may also lower the target’s accuracy.
Steamroller is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. Power is doubled against Pokémon that have used minimize since entering the field. The user crushes its targets by rolling over them with its rolled-up body. This attack may make the target flinch. The user crushes its targets by rolling over them with its rolled-up body. This may also make the target flinch. The user crushes its target by rolling over the target with its rolled-up body. This may also make the target flinch. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Cotton Guard is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Defense by three stages. The user protects itself by wrapping its body in soft cotton, drastically raising the user’s Defense stat. The user protects itself by wrapping its body in soft cotton, which drastically raises the user’s Defense stat. The user protects itself by wrapping its body in soft cotton, which drastically raises the user's Defense stat. The user protects itself by wrapping its body in soft cotton, drastically boosting its Defense stat.
Night Daze is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s accuracy by one stage. The user lets loose a pitch-black shock wave at its target. It may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user lets loose a pitch-black shock wave at its target. This may also lower the target’s accuracy. The user lets loose a pitch-black shock wave at its target. This may also lower the target's accuracy. The user looses a pitch-black shock wave at the target to inflict damage. This may also lower the target's accuracy.
Psystrike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage calculation always uses the target’s Defense, regardless of this move’s damage class. The user materializes an odd psychic wave to attack the target. This attack does physical damage. The user materializes an odd psychic wave to attack the target. This move deals physical damage.
Tail Slap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times in one turn. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. The user attacks by striking the target with its hard tail. It hits the target two to five times in a row. The user attacks by striking the target with its hard tail. This move hits two to five times in a row.
Hurricane is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. This move can hit Pokémon under the effect of bounce, fly, or sky drop. During rain dance, this move has 100% accuracy. During sunny day, this move has 50% accuracy. The user attacks by wrapping its opponent in a fierce wind that flies up into the sky. It may also confuse the target. The user attacks by wrapping its opponent in a fierce wind that flies up into the sky. This may also confuse the target. The user attacks by wrapping its opponent in a fierce wind. The user attacks by wrapping its opponent in a fierce wind. This may also confuse the target.
Head Charge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/4 the damage it inflicts in recoil. The user charges its head into its target, using its powerful guard hair. It also damages the user a little. The user charges its head into its target, using its powerful guard hair. This also damages the user a little.
Gear Grind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn. The user attacks by throwing two steel gears at its target. The user attacks by throwing steel gears at its target twice.
Searing Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. An inferno of scarlet flames torches everything around the user. It may leave targets with a burn. The user torches everything around it with an inferno of scarlet flames. This may also leave those hit with a burn. The user torches everything around it in an inferno of scarlet flames. This may also leave those it hits with a burn.
Techno Blast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user is holding a plate or a drive, this move’s type is the type corresponding to that item. Note: This effect is technically shared by both techno blast and judgment; however, Techno Blast is only affected by drives, and Judgment is only affected by plates. The user fires a beam of light at its target. The type changes depending on the Drive the user holds. The user fires a beam of light at its target. The move’s type changes depending on the Drive the user holds.
Relic Song is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to put the target to sleep. If the user is a meloetta, it will toggle between Aria and Pirouette Forme. The user sings an ancient song and attacks by appealing to the hearts of those listening. It may also induce sleep. The user sings an ancient song and attacks by appealing to the hearts of the listening opposing Pokémon. This may also induce sleep.
Secret Sword is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage calculation always uses the target’s Defense, regardless of this move’s damage class. The user cuts with its long horn. The odd power contained in the horn does physical damage to the target. The user cuts with its long horn. The odd power contained in the horn deals physical damage to the target.
Glaciate is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Speed by one stage. The user attacks by blowing freezing cold air at opposing Pokémon. This attack reduces the targets’ Speed stat. The user attacks by blowing freezing cold air at opposing Pokémon. This lowers their Speed stat. The user attacks by blowing freezing cold air at opposing Pokémon. This lowers their Speed stats. The user attacks by blowing freezing cold air at opposing Pokémon. This also lowers their Speed stats.
Bolt Strike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. The user charges its target, surrounding itself with a great amount of electricity. It may leave the target with paralysis. The user surrounds itself with a great amount of electricity and charges its target. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user surrounds itself with a great amount of electricity and charges the target. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Blue Flare is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The user attacks by engulfing the target in an intense, yet beautiful, blue flame. It may leave the target with a burn. The user attacks by engulfing the target in an intense, yet beautiful, blue flame. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Fiery Dance is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise the user’s Special Attack by one stage. Cloaked in flames, the user dances and flaps its wings. It may also raise the user’s Sp. Atk stat. Cloaked in flames, the user dances and flaps its wings. This may also raise the user’s Sp. Atk stat. Cloaked in flames, the user attacks the target by dancing and flapping its wings. This may also raise the user’s Sp. Atk stat. Cloaked in flames, the user attacks the target by dancing and flapping its wings. This may also raise the user's Sp. Atk stat. Cloaked in flames, the user attacks the target by dancing and flapping its wings. This may also boost the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Freeze Shock is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. User charges for one turn before attacking. On the second turn, the user hits the target with electrically charged ice. It may leave the target with paralysis. On the second turn, the user hits the target with electrically charged ice. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The turn after using this move, the user hits the target with electrically charged ice to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with paralysis.
Ice Burn is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. User charges for one turn before attacking. On the second turn, an ultracold, freezing wind surrounds the target. This may leave the target with a burn. The turn after using this move, the user surrounds the target with an ultracold, freezing wind to inflict damage. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Snarl is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Attack by one stage. The user yells as if it is ranting about something, making the target’s Sp. Atk stat decrease. The user yells as if it is ranting about something, making the targets’ Sp. Atk stat decrease. The user yells as if it’s ranting about something, which lowers the Sp. Atk stat of opposing Pokémon. The user yells as if it’s ranting about something, which lowers the Sp. Atk stats of opposing Pokémon. The user attacks by crying out as if it's ranting about something. This also lowers the target's offensive stats. The user yells as if it's ranting about something, which lowers the Sp. Atk stats of opposing Pokémon.
Icicle Crash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. The user attacks by harshly dropping an icicle onto the target. It may also make the target flinch. The user attacks by harshly dropping large icicles onto the target. This may also make the target flinch. The user attacks by harshly dropping large icicles onto the target. The user attacks by crashing large icicles onto the target. This may also make the target flinch.
V Create is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the user’s Defense, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. With a hot flame on its forehead, the user hurls itself at its target. It lowers the user’s Defense, Sp. Def, and Speed stats. With a hot flame on its forehead, the user hurls itself at its target. This lowers the user’s Defense, Sp. Def, and Speed stats.
Fusion Flare is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a friendly Pokémon used fusion bolt earlier this turn, this move has double power. The user brings down a giant flame. This attack does greater damage when influenced by an enormous thunderbolt. The user brings down a giant flame. This move is more powerful when influenced by an enormous thunderbolt. The user brings down a giant flame. This move’s power is increased when influenced by an enormous lightning bolt. The user brings down a giant flame. This move's power is increased when influenced by an enormous lightning bolt. The user brings down a giant flame. This move's power is boosted when influenced by an enormous lightning bolt.
Fusion Bolt is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If a friendly Pokémon used fusion flare earlier this turn, this move has double power. The user throws down a giant thunderbolt. This attack does greater damage when influenced by an enormous flame. The user throws down a giant thunderbolt. This move is more powerful when influenced by an enormous flame. The user throws down a giant lightning bolt. This move’s power is increased when influenced by an enormous flame. The user throws down a giant lightning bolt. This move's power is increased when influenced by an enormous flame. The user throws down a giant lightning bolt. This move's power is boosted when influenced by an enormous flame.
Flying Press is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the purposes of type effectiveness, this move is both fighting- and flying-type: its final effectiveness is determined by multiplying the effectiveness of each type against each of the target’s types. For all other purposes, this move is pure Fighting-type. If this move’s type is changed, its Fighting typing is overwritten, and its secondary type remains Flying. If the target has used minimize since entering battle, this move has double power and will never miss. The user dives down onto the target from the sky. This move is Fighting and Flying type simultaneously.
Mat Block is a Pokémon move. Protects all friendly Pokémon from damaging moves. Only works on the first turn after the user is sent out. Using a pulled-up mat as a shield, the user protects itself and its allies from damaging moves. This does not stop status moves.
Belch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Can only be used if the user has eaten a berry since the beginning of the battle. After the user eats a berry, it may use this move any number of times until the end of the battle, even if it switches out. Eating a held berry, eating a berry via bug bite or pluck, or being the target of a Flung berry will enable this move. Feeding a Pokémon a berry from the bag or using natural gift will not. If the trainer chooses this move when it cannot be used, the choice is rejected outright and the trainer must choose another move. The user lets out a damaging belch at the target. The user must eat a held Berry to use this move.
Rototiller is a Pokémon move. Raises the Attack and Special Attack of all grass Pokémon in battle. Tilling the soil, the user makes it easier for plants to grow. This raises the Attack and Sp. Atk stats of Grass-type Pokémon. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sticky Web is a Pokémon move. Shoots a web over the opponents’ side of the field, which lowers the Speed of any opposing Pokémon that enters the field by one stage. Pokémon in the air, such as flying-types and those with levitate, are unaffected. rapid spin removes Sticky Web from the user’s side of the field; defog removes it from both sides. The user weaves a sticky net around the opposing team, which lowers their Speed stat upon switching into battle. The user weaves a sticky net around the opposing team, which lowers their Speed stats upon switching into battle.
Fell Stinger is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Raises the user’s Attack by two stages if it KOs the target. When the user knocks out a target with this move, the user’s Attack stat rises sharply. When the user knocks out a target with this move, the user’s Attack stat rises drastically. When the user knocks out a target with this move, the user's Attack stat rises drastically. When the user knocks out a target with this move, the user's Attack stat is boosted drastically.
Phantom Force is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User vanishes for one turn, becoming immune to attack, and hits on the second turn. This move ignores the effects of detect and protect. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. The user vanishes somewhere, then strikes the target on the next turn. This move hits even if the target protects itself.
Trick Or Treat is a Pokémon move. Adds ghost to the target’s types. The user takes the target trick-or-treating. This adds Ghost type to the target’s type.
Noble Roar is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack and Special Attack by one stage. Letting out a noble roar, the user intimidates the target and lowers its Attack and Sp. Atk stats. Letting out a noble roar, the user intimidates the target and lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats.
Ion Deluge is a Pokémon move. Changes all Pokémon’s normal moves to electric moves for the rest of the turn. The user disperses electrically charged particles, which changes Normal-type moves to Electric-type moves. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Parabolic Charge is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for half the total damage dealt to all targets. The user attacks everything around it. The user’s HP is restored by half the damage taken by those hit. The user attacks everything around it. The user's HP is restored by half the damage taken by those hit.
Forests Curse is a Pokémon move. Adds grass to the target’s types. The user puts a forest curse on the target. Afflicted targets are now Grass type as well. The user puts a forest curse on the target. The target is now Grass type as well. The user puts a forest curse on the target. This adds Grass type to the target's type.
Petal Blizzard is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user stirs up a violent petal blizzard and attacks everything around it. The user stirs up a violent petal blizzard and damages everything around it.
Freeze Dry is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This move is super-effective against the water type. The target’s other type will affect damage as usual. If this move’s type is changed, it remains super-effective against Water regardless of its type. The user rapidly cools the target. This may also leave the target frozen. This move is super effective on Water types.
Disarming Voice is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion. Letting out a charming cry, the user does emotional damage to opposing Pokémon. This attack never misses.
Parting Shot is a Pokémon move. Lowers all targets’ Attack and Special Attack by one stage. Makes the user switch out. With a parting threat, the user lowers the target’s Attack and Sp. Atk stats. Then it switches with a party Pokémon. With a parting threat, the user lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats. Then it switches with a party Pokémon. With a parting threat, the user lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats. Then it switches places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Topsy Turvy is a Pokémon move. Inverts the target’s stat modifiers. All stat changes affecting the target turn topsy-turvy and become the opposite of what they were.
Draining Kiss is a Pokémon move. Deals regular damage. Drains 75% of the damage inflicted to heal the user. The user steals the target’s energy with a kiss. The user’s HP is restored by over half of the damage taken by the target. The user steals the target’s HP with a kiss. The user’s HP is restored by over half of the damage taken by the target. The user attacks with an energy-draining kiss that restores the user’s HP. The user steals the target's HP with a kiss. The user's HP is restored by over half the damage taken by the target.
Crafty Shield is a Pokémon move. Protects all friendly Pokémon from non-damaging moves for the rest of the turn. Unlike other blocking moves, this move may be used consecutively without its chance of success falling. The user protects itself and its allies from status moves with a mysterious power. This does not stop moves that do damage.
Flower Shield is a Pokémon move. Raises the Defense of all grass Pokémon in battle. The user raises the Defense stat of all Grass-type Pokémon in battle with a mysterious power. The user raises the Defense stats of all Grass-type Pokémon in battle with a mysterious power.
Grassy Terrain is a Pokémon move. For five turns, heals all Pokémon on the ground for 1/16 their max HP each turn and strengthens their grass moves to 1.5× their power. Changes nature power to energy ball. The user turns the ground under everyone’s feet to grass for five turns. This restores the HP of Pokémon on the ground a little every turn. The user turns the ground to grass for five turns. This restores the HP of Pokémon on the ground a little every turn and powers up Grass type-moves. The user turns the ground to grass for five turns. This restores the HP of Pokémon on the ground a little every turn and powers up Grass-type moves. The user turns the ground into Grassy Terrain for five turns. This restores the HP of Pokémon on the ground a little every turn and powers up Grass-type moves.
Misty Terrain is a Pokémon move. For five turns, protects all Pokémon on the ground from major status ailments and confusion and weakens dragon moves used against them to 0.5× their power. Changes nature power to moonblast. The user covers the ground under everyone’s feet with mist for five turns. This protects Pokémon on the ground from status conditions. This protects Pokémon on the ground from status conditions and halves damage from Dragon-type moves for five turns.
Electrify is a Pokémon move. Changes the target’s move’s type to electric if it hasn’t moved yet this turn. If the target is electrified before it uses a move during that turn, the target’s move becomes Electric type.
Play Rough is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Attack by one stage. The user plays rough with the target and attacks it. This may also lower the target’s Attack stat. The user plays rough with the target and attacks it. This may also lower the target’s offensive stats. The user attacks by playing rough with the target. This may also lower the target's Attack stat.
Fairy Wind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user stirs up a fairy wind and strikes the target with it. The user attacks by stirring up a fairy wind to strike the target.
Moonblast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Attack by one stage. Borrowing the power of the moon, the user attacks the target. This may also lower the target’s Sp. Atk stat. Borrowing the power of the moon, the user attacks the target. This may also lower the target’s offensive stats. Borrowing the power of the moon, the user attacks the target. This may also lower the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Boomburst is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks everything around it with the destructive power of a terrible, explosive sound. The user attacks everything around it with the destructive power of a terrible explosive sound.
Fairy Lock is a Pokémon move. Prevents all Pokémon from fleeing or switching out during the next turn. By locking down the battlefield, the user keeps all Pokémon from fleeing during the next turn.
Kings Shield is a Pokémon move. Blocks damaging attacks and lowers attacking Pokémon’s Attack by two stages on contact. Switches Aegislash to Shield Forme. The user takes a defensive stance while it protects itself from damage. It also harshly lowers the Attack stat of any attacker who makes direct contact. The user takes a defensive stance while it protects itself from damage. It also lowers the Attack stat of any attacker that makes direct contact.
Play Nice is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. The user and the target become friends, and the target loses its will to fight. This lowers the target’s Attack stat. The user and the target become friends, and the target loses its will to fight. This lowers the target's Attack stat.
Confide is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Special Attack by one stage. The user tells the target a secret, and the target loses its ability to concentrate. This lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat. The user tells the target a secret, and the target loses its ability to concentrate. This lowers the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Diamond Storm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to raise the user’s Defense by two stages for each target hit. The user whips up a storm of diamonds to damage opposing Pokémon. This may also raise the user’s Defense stat. The user whips up a storm of diamonds to damage opposing Pokémon. This may also sharply raise the user’s Defense stat. The user whips up a storm of diamonds to damage opposing Pokémon. This may also sharply raise the user's Defense stat. The user whips up a storm of diamonds to damage opposing Pokémon. This may also sharply boost the user's Defense stat.
Steam Eruption is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The user immerses the target in superheated steam. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Hyperspace Hole is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Bypasses and removes any protection effect on the target. Using a hyperspace hole, the user appears right next to the target and strikes. This also hits a target using Protect or Detect. Using a hyperspace hole, the user appears right next to the target and strikes. This also hits a target using a move such as Protect or Detect. Using a hyperspace hole, the user appears right next to the target and strikes. This attack can hit a target using a move such as Protect or Detect.
Water Shuriken is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits 2–5 times. The user hits the target with throwing stars two to five times in a row. This move always goes first.
Mystical Fire is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Attack by one stage. The user attacks by breathing a special, hot fire. This also lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks by breathing a special, hot fire. This also lowers the target's offensive stats. The user attacks by breathing a special, hot fire. This also lowers the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Spiky Shield is a Pokémon move. Blocks damaging attacks and damages attacking Pokémon for 1/8 their max HP. In addition to protecting the user from attacks, this move also damages any attacker who makes direct contact. In addition to protecting the user from attacks, this move also damages any attacker that makes direct contact.
Aromatic Mist is a Pokémon move. Raises a selected ally’s Special Defense by one stage. The user raises the Sp. Def stat of an ally Pokémon by using a mysterious aroma. The user boosts the Sp. Def stat of an ally Pokémon by using a mysterious aroma.
Eerie Impulse is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Special Attack by two stages. The user’s body generates an eerie impulse. Exposing the target to it harshly lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat. The user's body generates an eerie impulse. Exposing the target to it harshly lowers the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Venom Drench is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack, Special Attack, and Speed by one stage if it is poisoned. Opposing Pokémon are drenched in an odd poisonous liquid. This lowers the Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats of a poisoned target.
Powder is a Pokémon move. Explodes if the target uses a fire move this turn, damaging it for 1/4 its max HP and preventing the move. The user covers the target in a powder that explodes and damages the target if it uses a Fire-type move. The user covers the target in a combustible powder. If the target uses a Fire-type move, the powder explodes and damages the target.
Geomancy is a Pokémon move. Takes one turn to charge, then raises the user’s Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by two stages. The user absorbs energy and sharply raises its Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, and Speed stats on the next turn.
Magnetic Flux is a Pokémon move. Raises the Defense and Special Defense of all friendly Pokémon with plus or minus by one stage. The user manipulates magnetic fields, which raises the Defense and Sp. Def stats of ally Pokémon with the Plus or Minus Ability. The user manipulates magnetic fields, which boosts the Defense and Sp. Def stats of ally Pokémon with the Plus Ability or the Minus Ability.
Happy Hour is a Pokémon move. Doubles prize money. Stacks with a held item. Only works once per battle. Using Happy Hour doubles the amount of prize money received after battle.
Electric Terrain is a Pokémon move. For five turns, prevents all Pokémon on the ground from sleeping and strengthens their electric moves to 1.5× their power. Changes nature power to thunderbolt. The user electrifies the ground under everyone’s feet for five turns. Pokémon on the ground no longer fall asleep. The user electrifies the ground for five turns, powering up Electric-type moves. Pokémon on the ground no longer fall asleep. The user turns the ground into Electric Terrain for five turns, powering up Electric-type moves. Pokémon on the ground can no longer fall asleep.
Dazzling Gleam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user damages opposing Pokémon by emitting a powerful flash. The user emits a powerful flash of light to inflict damage on the target.
Celebrate is a Pokémon move. Does nothing. The Pokémon congratulates you on your special day!
Hold Hands is a Pokémon move. Does nothing. The user and an ally hold hands. This makes them very happy.
Baby Doll Eyes is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. The user stares at the target with its baby-doll eyes, which lowers its Attack stat. This move always goes first. The user stares at the target with its baby-doll eyes, which lowers the target’s Attack stat. This move always goes first. The user stares at the target with its baby-doll eyes. This lowers the target’s offensive stats. The user stares at the target with its baby-doll eyes, which lowers the target's Attack stat. This move always goes first.
Nuzzle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. The user attacks by nuzzling its electrified cheeks against the target. This also leaves the target with paralysis.
Hold Back is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Will not reduce the target’s HP below 1. The user holds back when it attacks and the target is left with at least 1 HP. The user holds back when it attacks, and the target is left with at least 1 HP.
Infestation is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. The target is infested and attacked for four to five turns. The target can’t flee during this time. The target is infested and attacked for four to five turns. The target can't flee during this time.
Power Up Punch is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Raises the user’s Attack by one stage. Striking opponents over and over makes the user’s fists harder. Hitting a target raises the Attack stat.
Oblivion Wing is a Pokémon move. Deals regular damage. Drains 75% of the damage inflicted to heal the user. The user absorbs its target’s HP. The user’s HP is restored by over half of the damage taken by the target.
Thousand Arrows is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Grounds the target until it leaves battle. Ignores levitation effects and the immunity of flying-type Pokémon. This move also hits opposing Pokémon that are in the air. Those Pokémon are knocked down to the ground.
Thousand Waves is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Traps the target. The user attacks with a wave that crawls along the ground. Those hit can’t flee from battle. The user attacks with a wave that crawls along the ground. Those it hits can’t flee from battle.
Lands Wrath is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user gathers the energy of the land and focuses that power on opposing Pokémon to damage them.
Light Of Ruin is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/2 the damage it inflicts in recoil. Drawing power from the Eternal Flower, the user fires a powerful beam of light. This also damages the user quite a lot.
Origin Pulse is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks opposing Pokémon with countless beams of light that glow a deep and brilliant blue.
Precipice Blades is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks opposing Pokémon by manifesting the power of the land in fearsome blades of stone.
Dragon Ascent is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Defense and Special Defense by one stage each. After soaring upward, the user attacks its target by dropping out of the sky at high speeds, although it lowers its own Defense and Sp. Def in the process. After soaring upward, the user attacks its target by dropping out of the sky at high speeds. But it lowers its own Defense and Sp. Def stats in the process. The user attacks the target by dropping out of the sky at high speed. This also lowers the user's Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Hyperspace Fury is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Bypasses and removes any protection effect on the target. Using its many arms, the user unleashes a barrage of attacks that ignore the effects of moves like Protect and Detect. This attack lowers the user’s Defense. Using its many arms, the user unleashes a barrage of attacks that ignore the effects of moves like Protect and Detect. But the user’s Defense stat falls. Using its many arms, the user unleashes a barrage of attacks that ignore the effects of moves like Protect and Detect. But the user's Defense stat falls. Using its many arms, the user unleashes a barrage of attacks that ignore the effects of moves like Protect and Detect. This also lowers the user's Defense stat.
Breakneck Blitz  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user builds up its momentum using its Z-Power and crashes into the target at full speed. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Breakneck Blitz  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
All Out Pummeling  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user rams an energy orb created by its Z-Power into the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
All Out Pummeling  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Supersonic Skystrike  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user soars up with its Z-Power and plummets toward the target at full speed. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Supersonic Skystrike  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Acid Downpour  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user creates a poisonous swamp using its Z-Power and sinks the target into it at full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Acid Downpour  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Tectonic Rage  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user burrows deep into the ground and slams into the target with the full force of its Z-Power. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Tectonic Rage  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Continental Crush  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user summons a huge rock mountain using its Z-Power and drops it onto the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Continental Crush  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Savage Spin Out  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user binds the target with full force with threads of silk that the user spits using its Z-Power. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Savage Spin Out  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Never Ending Nightmare  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Deep-seated grudges summoned by the user’s Z-Power trap the target. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Never Ending Nightmare  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Corkscrew Crash  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user spins very fast and rams into the target with the full force of its Z-Power. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Corkscrew Crash  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Inferno Overdrive  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user breathes a stream of intense fire toward the target with the full force of its Z-Power. The power varies depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Inferno Overdrive  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Hydro Vortex  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user creates a huge whirling current using its Z-Power to swallow the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Hydro Vortex  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Bloom Doom  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user collects energy from plants using its Z-Power and attacks the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Bloom Doom  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Gigavolt Havoc  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user hits the target with a powerful electric current collected by its Z-Power. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Gigavolt Havoc  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shattered Psyche  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user controls the target with its Z-Power and hurts the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shattered Psyche  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Subzero Slammer  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user dramatically drops the temperature using its Z-Power and freezes the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Subzero Slammer  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Devastating Drake  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user materializes its aura using its Z-Power and attacks the target with full force. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Devastating Drake  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Black Hole Eclipse  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user gathers dark energy using its Z-Power and sucks the target into it. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Black Hole Eclipse  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Twinkle Tackle  Physical is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user creates a very charming space using its Z-Power and totally toys with the target. The power varies, depending on the original move. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Twinkle Tackle  Special is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Dummy Data This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Catastropika is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, Pikachu, surrounds itself with the maximum amount of electricity using its Z-Power and pounces on its target with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shore Up is a Pokémon move. Heals the user for ½ its max HP. During a sandstorm, the healing is increased to ⅔. The user regains up to half of its max HP. It restores more HP in a sandstorm. The user restores its own HP by up to half its max HP. It regains more HP in a sandstorm.
First Impression is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Can only be used on the user’s first turn after entering the field. Although this move has great power, it only works the first turn the user is in battle. Although this move has great power, it only works the first turn each time the user enters battle. Although this move has great power, it works only on the first turn each time the user enters battle.
Baneful Bunker is a Pokémon move. Grants the user protection for the rest of the turn. If a Pokémon attempts to use a move that makes contact with the user, that Pokémon will be poisoned. This move’s chance of success halves every time it’s used consecutively with any other protection move. In addition to protecting the user from attacks, this move also poisons any attacker that makes direct contact.
Spirit Shackle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Traps the target. The user attacks while simultaneously stitching the target’s shadow to the ground to prevent the target from escaping. The user attacks while simultaneously stitching the target's shadow to the ground to prevent the target from escaping. The user attacks while simultaneously stitching the target's shadow to the ground to prevent the target from fleeing.
Darkest Lariat is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Damage calculation ignores the target’s stat modifiers, including evasion. The user swings both arms and hits the target. The target’s stat changes don’t affect this attack’s damage. The user swings both arms and hits the target. The target's stat changes don't affect this attack's damage. The user swings both arms and hits the target. The target's stat changes don't affect the damage inflicted by this move.
Sparkling Aria is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target has a burn and takes damage from this move, its burn is healed. The user bursts into song, emitting many bubbles. Any Pokémon suffering from a burn will be healed by the touch of these bubbles. The user bursts into song, emitting many bubbles. Any Pokémon suffering from a burn will be cured by the touch of these bubbles.
Ice Hammer is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Speed by one stage. The user swings and hits with its strong, heavy fist. It lowers the user’s Speed, however. The user swings and hits with its strong, heavy fist. It lowers the user's Speed, however. The user swings its strong, heavy fist at the target to inflict damage. This also lowers the user's Speed stat.
Floral Healing is a Pokémon move. Heals the target for ½ its max HP. If grassy terrain is in effect, heals for ⅔ instead. The user restores the target’s HP by up to half of its max HP. It restores more HP when the terrain is grass. The user restores the target's HP by up to half of its max HP. It restores more HP when the terrain is grass. The user restores the target's HP by up to half its max HP. More HP is restored when the ground is Grassy Terrain.
High Horsepower is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user fiercely attacks the target using its entire body.
Strength Sap is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. Heals the user by the target’s current Attack, including modifiers, but not including this move’s Attack-lowering effect. If the target’s Attack is already at -6, this move will fail. In any other situation that would prevent a stat modification, the healing will still succeed. The user restores its HP by the same amount as the target’s Attack stat. It also lowers the target’s Attack stat. The user restores its HP by the same amount as the target's Attack stat. It also lowers the target's Attack stat. The user restores its own HP by the same amount as the target's Attack stat. It then lowers the target's Attack stat.
Solar Blade is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User charges for one turn before attacking. During sunny day, the charge turn is skipped. During hail, rain dance, or sandstorm, power is halved. This move cannot be selected by sleep talk. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light and fills a blade with the light’s energy, attacking the target on the next turn. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers light and fills a blade with the light's energy, attacking the target on the next turn. The user gathers light on the first turn, then fills a blade with the light's energy and attacks on the next turn.
Leafage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks by pelting the target with leaves.
Spotlight is a Pokémon move. For the duration of the turn, if the target is also a valid target for a move used by one of its opponents, that move will target it instead. The user shines a spotlight on the target so that only the target will be attacked during the turn. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Toxic Thread is a Pokémon move. Poisons the target and lowers its Speed by one stage. The user shoots poisonous threads to poison the target and lower the target’s Speed stat. The user shoots poisonous threads to poison the target and lower the target's Speed stat.
Laser Focus is a Pokémon move. The user’s next move will result in a critical hit. The user concentrates intensely. The attack on the next turn always results in a critical hit.
Gear Up is a Pokémon move. Raises the Attack and Special Attack of all friendly Pokémon with plus or minus by one stage. The user engages its gears to raise the Attack and Sp. Atk stats of ally Pokémon with the Plus or Minus Ability.
Throat Chop is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Silences the target for two turns, preventing it from using any sound-based moves. The user attacks the target’s throat, and the resultant suffering prevents the target from using moves that emit sound for two turns. The user attacks the target's throat, and the resultant suffering prevents the target from using moves that emit sound for two turns. The user attacks the target's throat, and the resultant suffering prevents the target from using sound-based moves for two turns.
Pollen Puff is a Pokémon move. If the target is an opponent, inflicts regular damage. If the target is an ally, heals the target for 50% of its max HP. The user attacks the enemy with a pollen puff that explodes. If the target is an ally, it gives the ally a pollen puff that restores its HP instead.
Anchor Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Traps the target. The user entangles the target with its anchor chain while attacking. The target becomes unable to flee.
Psychic Terrain is a Pokémon move. Changes the terrain to Psychic Terrain for 5 turns. Overrides electric terrain, grassy terrain, and misty terrain. All Pokémon on the ground are immune to moves with priority greater than 0. (Moves that target the field rather than individual Pokémon, such as spikes, are not affected.) Additionally, when a Pokémon on the ground uses a psychic-type move, that move’s power is increased to 1.5×. If a Pokémon is holding a Terrain Extender when creating Psychic Terrain (by any means), the effect lasts for 8 turns instead of 5. This protects Pokémon on the ground from priority moves and powers up Psychic-type moves for five turns.
Lunge is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. The user makes a lunge at the target, attacking with full force. This also lowers the target’s Attack stat. The user makes a lunge at the target, attacking with full force. This also lowers the target's Attack stat.
Fire Lash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Defense by one stage. The user strikes the target with a burning lash. This also lowers the target’s Defense stat. The user strikes the target with a burning lash. This also lowers the target's Defense stat.
Power Trip is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power is increased by 100% its original value for every stage any of the user’s stats have been raised. Accuracy, evasion, and lowered stats do not affect this move’s power. For a Pokémon with all five stats modified to +6, this move’s power is 31×. The user boasts its strength and attacks the target. The more the user’s stats are raised, the greater the move’s power. The user boasts its strength and attacks the target. The more the user's stats are raised, the greater the move's power. The user boasts its strength and attacks the target. The more the user's stats are boosted, the greater the move's power.
Burn Up is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Removes the user’s fire type after damage calculation. If the user is not fire-type, this move will fail. To inflict massive damage, the user burns itself out. After using this move, the user will no longer be Fire type.
Speed Swap is a Pokémon move. Exchanges the original Speed stats of the user and target. The user exchanges Speed stats with the target.
Smart Strike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. The user stabs the target with a sharp horn. This attack never misses.
Purify is a Pokémon move. Cures the target of its major status ailment and heals the user for 50% of its max HP. If the target has no major status ailment, this move will fail. The user heals the target’s status condition. If the move succeeds, it also restores the user’s own HP.
Revelation Dance is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This move’s type matches the user’s first type, if any; otherwise, it’s typeless. The user attacks the target by dancing very hard. The user’s type determines the type of this move. The user attacks the target by dancing very hard. The user's type determines the type of this move. The user attacks the target by dancing with all its might. This move becomes the same type as the user's type.
Core Enforcer is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the target has already moved this turn, its ability is nullified. If the Pokémon the user has inflicted damage on have already used their moves, this move eliminates the effect of the target’s Ability.
Trop Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. The user lands an intense kick of tropical origins on the target. This also lowers the target’s Attack stat. The user lands an intense kick of tropical origins on the target. This also lowers the target's Attack stat.
Instruct is a Pokémon move. The target immediately uses its most recently-used move. This is independent of the target’s normal action for the turn (i.e., it may end up moving twice), but otherwise functions as usual, including deduction of PP. This effect works for disabled moves and ignores torment. The user instructs the target to use the target’s last move again. The user instructs the target to use the target's last move again. The user instructs the target to reuse the move last used by the target.
Beak Blast is a Pokémon move. Begins charging at the start of the turn, then attacks as normal. Any Pokémon that makes contact with the user while charging is burned. The charging is not affected by accuracy, sleep, paralysis, or any other effect that would interfere with a move. The user first heats up its beak, and then it attacks the target. Making direct contact with the Pokémon while it’s heating up its beak results in a burn. The user first heats up its beak, and then it attacks the target. Making direct contact with the Pokémon while it's heating up its beak results in a burn. The user first heats up its beak, and then it attacks the target. Making direct contact with the user while it's heating up its beak results in a burn.
Clanging Scales is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the user’s Defense by one stage. The user rubs the scales on its entire body and makes a huge noise to attack the opposing Pokémon. The user’s Defense stat goes down after the attack. The user rubs the scales on its entire body and makes a huge noise to attack opposing Pokémon. The user’s Defense stat goes down after the attack. The user rubs the scales on its entire body and makes a huge noise to attack opposing Pokémon. The user's Defense stat goes down after the attack. The user rubs the scales on its entire body and makes a huge noise to attack opposing Pokémon. The user's Defense stat is lowered after the attack.
Dragon Hammer is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user uses its body like a hammer to attack the target and inflict damage. The user wields its body like a hammer to attack the target and inflict damage.
Brutal Swing is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user swings its body around violently to inflict damage on everything in its vicinity.
Aurora Veil is a Pokémon move. Places the Aurora Veil effect on the user’s side of the field for the next 5 turns. If the weather is not hail, or the weather is disabled by the effects of cloud nine or air lock, this move will fail. Any regular damage dealt to an affected Pokémon is reduced by ½. (If there are multiple Pokémon on the affected field, the reduction is ⅓.) This move reduces damage from physical and special moves for five turns. This can be used only in a hailstorm. This move reduces damage from physical and special moves for five turns. This can be used only when it is snowing.
Sinister Arrow Raid is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, Decidueye, creates countless arrows using its Z-Power and shoots the target with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Malicious Moonsault is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, Incineroar, strengthens its body using its Z-Power and crashes into the target with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Oceanic Operetta is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, Primarina, summons a massive amount of water using its Z-Power and attacks the target with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Guardian Of Alola is a Pokémon move. Inflicts direct damage equal to ¾ of the target’s remaining HP. The user, the Land Spirit Pokémon, obtains Alola’s energy using its Z-Power and attacks the target with full force. This reduces the target’s HP greatly. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Soul Stealing 7 Star Strike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Marshadow, punches and kicks the target consecutively with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Stoked Sparksurfer is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Alolan Raichu, attacks the target with full force. This move leaves the target with paralysis. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Pulverizing Pancake is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Z-Power brings out the true capabilities of the user, Snorlax. The Pokémon moves its enormous body energetically and attacks the target with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Extreme Evoboost is a Pokémon move. Raises the user’s Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by two stages each. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Eevee, gets energy from its evolved friends and boosts its stats sharply. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Genesis Supernova is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then (if successful) changes the terrain to psychic terrain. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Mew, attacks the target with full force. The terrain will be charged with psychic energy. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Shell Trap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user was not yet hit by an opponent’s physical move this turn, this move will fail. The user sets a shell trap. If the user is hit by a physical move, the trap will explode and inflict damage on the opposing Pokémon. The user sets a shell trap. If the user is hit by a physical move, the trap will explode and inflict damage on opposing Pokémon.
Fleur Cannon is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then lowers the user’s Special Attack by two stages. The user unleashes a strong beam. The attack’s recoil harshly lowers the user’s Sp. Atk stat. The user unleashes a strong beam. The attack's recoil harshly lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat. The user unleashes a strong beam. The recoil from this move harshly lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Psychic Fangs is a Pokémon move. Destroys any light screen or reflect on the target’s side of the field, then inflicts regular damage. The user bites the target with its psychic capabilities. This can also destroy Light Screen and Reflect. The user attacks by biting the target with its psychic capabilities. This move can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect.
Stomping Tantrum is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Power is doubled if the user’s last move failed for any reason (i.e., produced the message "But it failed!") or was ineffective due to types. Driven by frustration, the user attacks the target. If the user’s previous move has failed, the power of this move doubles. Driven by frustration, the user attacks the target. If the user's previous move has failed, the power of this move doubles. Driven by frustration, the user attacks the target. This move's power is doubled if the user's previous move failed.
Shadow Bone is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. The user attacks by beating the target with a bone that contains a spirit. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat.
Accelerock is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user smashes into the target at high speed. This move always goes first.
Liquidation is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Defense by one stage. The user slams into the target using a full-force blast of water. This may also lower the target’s Defense stat. The user slams into the target using a full-force blast of water. This may also lower the target’s defensive stats. The user slams into the target using a full-force blast of water. This may also lower the target's Defense stat.
Prismatic Laser is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. The user shoots powerful lasers using the power of a prism. The user can’t move on the next turn. The user shoots powerful lasers using the power of a prism. The user can't move on the next turn.
Spectral Thief is a Pokémon move. Steals the target’s stat increases, then inflicts regular damage. Will not steal stat increases that would put any of the user’s stats at more than +6; any excess is left on the target. Stolen increases are affected by abilities as normal. The user hides in the target’s shadow, steals the target’s stat boosts, and then attacks.
Sunsteel Strike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Other Pokémon’s abilities cannot activate in response to this move. In particular, it hits through disguise The user slams into the target with the force of a meteor. This move can be used on the target regardless of its Abilities. The user slams into the target with the force of a meteor. This move can be used on the target regardless of its Ability.
Moongeist Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Other Pokémon’s abilities cannot activate in response to this move. In particular, it hits through disguise The user emits a sinister ray to attack the target. This move can be used on the target regardless of its Abilities. The user emits a sinister ray to attack the target. This move can be used on the target regardless of its Ability.
Tearful Look is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Attack and Special Attack by one stage each. The user gets teary eyed to make the target lose its combative spirit. This lowers the target’s Attack and Sp. Atk stats. The user gets teary eyed to make the target lose its combative spirit. This lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats. The user gets teary-eyed to make the target lose its combative spirit. This lowers the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats.
Zing Zap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. A strong electric blast crashes down on the target, giving it an electric shock. This may also make the target flinch. The user crashes into the target, delivering a powerful electric shock. This may also make the target flinch.
Natures Madness is a Pokémon move. Inflicts typeless damage equal to half the target’s remaining HP. The user hits the target with the force of nature. It halves the target’s HP.
Multi Attack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. If the user is holding a plate or a drive, this move’s type is the type corresponding to that item. Note: This effect is technically shared by both techno blast and judgment; however, Techno Blast is only affected by drives, and Judgment is only affected by plates. Cloaking itself in high energy, the user slams into the target. The memory held determines the move’s type.
10 000 000 Volt Thunderbolt is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, Pikachu wearing a cap, powers up a jolt of electricity using its Z-Power and unleashes it. Critical hits land more easily. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Mind Blown is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage, and the user takes damage equal to half of its max HP, rounded up. The user still takes damage if the move is blocked by Protect or Substitute, misses, or if the target has Flash Fire. The user attacks everything around it by causing its own head to explode. This also damages the user.
Plasma Fists is a Pokémon move. After inflicting damage, all Normal-type moves become Electric-type for the remainder of the turn, including status moves. This effect is applied after move type-changing abilities, such as Pixilate and Normalize. The user attacks with electrically charged fists. This move changes Normal-type moves to Electric-type moves.
Photon Geyser is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks a target with a pillar of light. This move inflicts Attack or Sp. Atk damage—whichever stat is higher for the user. The user attacks the target with a pillar of light. This move inflicts damage using the Attack or Sp. Atk stat—whichever is higher for the user.
Light That Burns The Sky is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage using either Attack or Special Attack stat, whichever is higher. Determining which stat is used takes into account stat changes but not held items or abilities. This attack inflicts Attack or Sp. Atk damage— whichever stat is higher for the user, Necrozma. This move ignores the target’s Ability. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Searing Sunraze Smash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Other Pokémon’s abilities cannot activate in response to this move. In particular, it hits through disguise After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Solgaleo, attacks the target with full force. This move can ignore the effect of the target’s Ability. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Other Pokémon’s abilities cannot activate in response to this move. In particular, it hits through disguise After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Lunala, attacks the target with full force. This move can ignore the effect of the target’s Ability. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Lets Snuggle Forever is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Mimikyu, punches the target with full force. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Splintered Stormshards is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage and removes any terrain present on the battlefield. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Lycanroc, attacks the target with full force. This move negates the effect on the battlefield. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Clangorous Soulblaze is a Pokémon move. Inflicts sound-based damage to all opposing Pokémon and increases the user’s Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by one stage each. The user’s stats are not raised if the move fails to damage any opposing Pokémon. After obtaining Z-Power, the user, Kommo-o, attacks the opposing Pokémon with full force. This move boosts the user’s stats. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Zippy Zap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks the target with bursts of electricity at high speed. This move always goes first and results in a critical hit. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Splishy Splash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user charges a huge wave with electricity and hits the opposing Pokémon with the wave. This may also leave the opposing Pokémon with paralysis. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Floaty Fall is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user floats in the air, and then dives at a steep angle to attack the target. This may also make the target flinch. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Pika Papow is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The more Pikachu loves its Trainer, the greater the move’s power. It never misses. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Bouncy Bubble is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks by shooting water bubbles at the target. It then absorbs water and restores its HP by half the damage taken by the target. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Buzzy Buzz is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user shoots a jolt of electricity to attack the target. This also leaves the target with paralysis. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sizzly Slide is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user cloaks itself in fire and charges at the target. This also leaves the target with a burn. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Glitzy Glow is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user bombards the target with telekinetic force. A wondrous wall of light is put up to weaken the power of the opposing Pokémon’s special moves. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Baddy Bad is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user acts bad and attacks the target. A wondrous wall of light is put up to weaken the power of the opposing Pokémon’s physical moves. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sappy Seed is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user grows a gigantic stalk that scatters seeds to attack the target. The seeds drain the target’s HP every turn. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Freezy Frost is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks with a crystal made of cold frozen haze. It eliminates every stat change among all the Pokémon engaged in battle. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Sparkly Swirl is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks the target by wrapping it with a whirlwind of an overpowering scent. This also heals all status conditions of the user’s party. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Veevee Volley is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The more Eevee loves its Trainer, the greater the move’s power. It never misses. This move can’t be used. It’s recommended that this move is forgotten. Once forgotten, this move can’t be remembered.
Double Iron Bash is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn. The user rotates, centering the hex nut in its chest, and then strikes with its arms twice in a row. This may also make the target flinch.
Max Guard is a Pokémon move. No moves will hit the user for the remainder of this turn. If the user is last to act this turn, this move will fail. If the user successfully used detect, endure, protect, quick guard, or wide guard on the last turn, this move has a 50% chance to fail. lock on, mind reader, and no guard provide a (100 – accuracy)% chance for moves to break through this move. This does not apply to one-hit KO moves (fissure, guillotine, horn drill, and sheer cold); those are always blocked by this move. thunder during rain dance and blizzard during hail have a 30% chance to break through this move. The following effects are not prevented by this move: * acupressure from an ally * curse’s curse effect * Delayed damage from doom desire and future sight; however, these moves will be prevented if they are used this turn * feint, which will also end this move’s protection after it hits * imprison * perish song * shadow force * Moves that merely copy the user, such as transform or psych up This move cannot be selected by assist or metronome. This move enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession.
Dynamax Cannon is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then (if successful) sets light screen on the user’s side of the field. The user unleashes a strong beam from its core. This move deals twice the damage if the target is Dynamaxed. The user condenses energy within its body and unleashes that energy from its core to inflict damage.
Snipe Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then (if successful) sets reflect on the user’s side of the field. The user ignores the effects of opposing Pokémon’s moves and Abilities that draw in moves, allowing this move to hit the chosen target. The user ignores the effects of opposing Pokémon's moves and Abilities that draw in moves, allowing this move to hit the chosen target.
Jaw Lock is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then (if successful) sets leech seed on the target. This move prevents the user and the target from switching out until either of them faints. The effect goes away if either of the Pokémon leaves the field.
Stuff Cheeks is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage, then (if successful) removes major status effects from every Pokémon in the user’s party. The user eats its held Berry, then sharply raises its Defense stat. The user eats its held Berry, then sharply boosts its Defense stat.
No Retreat is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Hits twice in one turn, with a $effect_chance% chance to make the target flinch. This move raises all the user’s stats but prevents the user from switching out or fleeing. This move raises all the user's stats but prevents the user from switching out or fleeing. This move boosts all the user's stats but prevents the user from switching out or fleeing.
Tar Shot is a Pokémon move. The user pours sticky tar over the target, lowering the target’s Speed stat. The target becomes weaker to Fire-type moves. The user pours sticky tar over the target, lowering the target's Speed stat. The target becomes weaker to Fire-type moves.
Magic Powder is a Pokémon move. The user scatters a cloud of magic powder that changes the target to Psychic type. The user scatters a cloud of magic powder that changes the target's type to Psychic.
Dragon Darts is a Pokémon move. The user attacks twice using Dreepy. If there are two targets, this move hits each target once. The user attacks twice using Dreepy. If there are two opposing Pokémon, this move hits each of them once.
Teatime is a Pokémon move. The user has teatime with all the Pokémon in the battle. Each Pokémon eats its held Berry. The user has teatime with all the Pokémon currently in the battle. Each Pokémon eats its held Berry.
Octolock is a Pokémon move. The user locks the target in and prevents it from fleeing. This move also lowers the target’s Defense and Sp. Def every turn.
Bolt Beak is a Pokémon move. The user stabs the target with its electrified beak. If the user attacks before the target, the power of this move is doubled.
Fishious Rend is a Pokémon move. The user rends the target with its hard gills. If the user attacks before the target, the power of this move is doubled.
Court Change is a Pokémon move. With its mysterious power, the user swaps the effects on either side of the field.
Max Flare is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Fire-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user intensifies the sun for five turns.
Max Flutterby is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Bug-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat.
Max Lightning is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is an Electric-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user turns the ground into Electric Terrain for five turns.
Max Strike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Normal-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This lowers the target’s Speed stat.
Max Knuckle is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Fighting-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This raises ally Pokémon’s Attack stats.
Max Phantasm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Ghost-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This lowers the target’s Defense stat.
Max Hailstorm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is an Ice-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user summons a hailstorm lasting five turns.
Max Ooze is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Poison-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This raises ally Pokémon’s Sp. Atk stats.
Max Geyser is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Water-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user summons a heavy rain that falls for five turns.
Max Airstream is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Flying-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This raises ally Pokémon’s Speed stats.
Max Starfall is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Fairy-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user turns the ground into Misty Terrain for five turns.
Max Wyrmwind is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Dragon-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This lowers the target’s Attack stat.
Max Mindstorm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Psychic-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user turns the ground into Psychic Terrain for five turns.
Max Rockfall is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Rock-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user summons a sandstorm lasting five turns.
Max Quake is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Ground-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This raises ally Pokémon’s Sp. Def stats.
Max Darkness is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Dark-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This lowers the target’s Sp. Def stat.
Max Overgrowth is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Grass-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. The user turns the ground into Grassy Terrain for five turns.
Max Steelspike is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This is a Steel-type attack Dynamax Pokémon use. This raises ally Pokémon’s Defense stats.
Clangorous Soul is a Pokémon move. The user raises all its stats by using some of its HP. The user boosts all its stats by using some of its own HP.
Body Press is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by slamming its body into the target. The higher the user’s Defense, the more damage it can inflict on the target. The user attacks by slamming its body into the target. The higher the user's Defense, the more damage it can inflict on the target. The user attacks by slamming its body into the target. The higher the user's Defense stat, the greater the damage this move deals.
Decorate is a Pokémon move. The user sharply raises the target’s Attack and Sp. Atk stats by decorating the target. The user sharply raises the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats by decorating the target. The user sharply boosts the target's Attack and Sp. Atk stats by decorating the target.
Drum Beating is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Speed by one stage. The user plays its drum, controlling the drum’s roots to attack the target. This also lowers the target’s Speed stat. The user plays its drum, controlling the drum's roots to attack the target. This also lowers the target's Speed stat.
Snap Trap is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. For the next 2–5 turns, the target cannot leave the field and is damaged for 1/16 its max HP at the end of each turn. The user continues to use other moves during this time. If the user leaves the field, this effect ends. Has a 3/8 chance each to hit 2 or 3 times, and a 1/8 chance each to hit 4 or 5 times. Averages to 3 hits per use. rapid spin cancels this effect. The user snares the target in a snap trap for four to five turns.
Pyro Ball is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The user attacks by igniting a small stone and launching it as a fiery ball at the target. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Behemoth Blade is a Pokémon move. The user becomes a gigantic sword and cuts the target. This move deals twice the damage if the target is Dynamaxed.
Behemoth Bash is a Pokémon move. The user becomes a gigantic shield and slams into the target. This move deals twice the damage if the target is Dynamaxed.
Aura Wheel is a Pokémon move. Morpeko attacks and raises its Speed with the energy stored in its cheeks. This move’s type changes depending on the user’s form. Morpeko attacks and raises its Speed with the energy stored in its cheeks. This move's type changes depending on the user's form. Morpeko attacks and boosts its Speed stat with the energy stored in its cheeks. This move's type changes depending on the user's form.
Breaking Swipe is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Attack by one stage. The user swings its tough tail wildly and attacks opposing Pokémon. This also lowers their Attack stats.
Branch Poke is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks the target by poking it with a sharply pointed branch.
Overdrive is a Pokémon move. The user attacks opposing Pokémon by twanging a guitar or bass guitar, causing a huge echo and strong vibration.
Apple Acid is a Pokémon move. The user attacks the target with an acidic liquid created from tart apples. This also lowers the target’s Sp. Def stat. The user attacks the target with an acidic liquid created from tart apples. This also lowers the target's Sp. Def stat.
Grav Apple is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Lowers the target’s Defense by one stage. The user inflicts damage by dropping an apple from high above. This also lowers the target’s Defense stat. The user inflicts damage by dropping an apple from high above. This also lowers the target's Defense stat.
Spirit Break is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to lower the target’s Special Attack by one stage. The user attacks the target with so much force that it could break the target’s spirit. This also lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat. The user attacks the target with so much force that it could break the target's spirit. This also lowers the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Strange Steam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to confuse the target. The user attacks the target by emitting steam. This may also confuse the target.
Life Dew is a Pokémon move. The user scatters mysterious water around and restores the HP of itself and its ally Pokémon in the battle. The user scatters mysterious water around and restores the HP of itself and its ally Pokémon currently in the battle.
Obstruct is a Pokémon move. This move enables the user to protect itself from all attacks. Its chance of failing rises if it is used in succession. Direct contact harshly lowers the attacker’s Defense stat.
False Surrender is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. The user pretends to bow its head, but then it stabs the target with its disheveled hair. This attack never misses.
Meteor Assault is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. The user attacks wildly with its thick leek. The user can’t move on the next turn, because the force of this move makes it stagger.
Eternabeam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn. This is Eternatus’s most powerful attack in its original form. The user can’t move on the next turn.
Steel Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts damage, and the user takes damage equal to half of its max HP, rounded up. The user still takes damage if the move is blocked by Protect or Substitute, misses, or if the target has Flash Fire. The user fires a beam of steel that it collected from its entire body. This also damages the user.
Expanding Force is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks the target with its psychic power. This move’s power goes up and damages all opposing Pokémon on Psychic Terrain. The user attacks the target with its psychic power. This move's power goes up and damages all opposing Pokémon on Psychic Terrain. The user attacks the target with its psychic power. When the ground is Psychic Terrain, this move's power is boosted and it damages all opposing Pokémon.
Steel Roller is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks while destroying the terrain. This move fails when the ground hasn’t turned into a terrain. The user attacks while destroying the terrain. This move fails when the ground hasn't turned into a terrain. The user attacks while destroying the terrain. This move fails if the ground hasn't turned into a terrain.
Scale Shot is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage two to five times in a row, raising the user’s Speed and lowering the user’s Defense by one stage each upon last hit. The user attacks by shooting scales two to five times in a row. This move boosts the user’s Speed stat but lowers its Defense stat. The user attacks by shooting scales two to five times in a row. This move boosts the user's Speed stat but lowers its Defense stat.
Meteor Beam is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. In this two-turn attack, the user gathers space power and boosts its Sp. Atk stat, then attacks the target on the next turn. The user gathers energy from space and boosts its Sp. Atk stat on the first turn, then attacks on the next turn.
Shell Side Arm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. This move inflicts physical or special damage, whichever will be more effective. This may also poison the target. This move is either physical or special—whichever will inflict more damage. This may also poison the target.
Misty Explosion is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks everything around it and faints upon using this move. This move’s power is increased on Misty Terrain. The user attacks everything around it and faints upon using this move. This move's power is increased on Misty Terrain. The user attacks everything around it and faints upon using this move. This move's power is boosted on Misty Terrain.
Grassy Glide is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Gliding on the ground, the user attacks the target. This move always goes first on Grassy Terrain.
Rising Voltage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks with electric voltage rising from the ground. This move’s power doubles when the target is on Electric Terrain. The user attacks with electric voltage rising from the ground. This move's power doubles when the target is on Electric Terrain. The user attacks with electricity rising from the ground. This move's power is doubled if the target is on Electric Terrain.
Terrain Pulse is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user utilizes the power of the terrain to attack. This move’s type and power changes depending on the terrain when it’s used. The user utilizes the power of the terrain to attack. This move's type and power changes depending on the terrain when it's used. The user utilizes the energy of the terrain to attack. This move’s type and power change depending on the terrain at the time the move is used.
Skitter Smack is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user skitters behind the target to attack. This also lowers the target’s Sp. Atk stat. The user skitters behind the target to attack. This also lowers the target's Sp. Atk stat.
Burning Jealousy is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks with energy from jealousy. This leaves all opposing Pokémon that have had their stats boosted during the turn with a burn.
Lash Out is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user lashes out to vent its frustration toward the target. If the user’s stats were lowered during this turn, the power of this move is doubled. The user lashes out to vent its frustration toward the target. If its stats were lowered during the turn, the power of this move is doubled. The user lashes out to vent its frustration toward the target. This move's power is doubled if the user's stats were lowered during this turn.
Poltergeist is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks the target by controlling the target’s item. The move fails if the target doesn’t have an item. The user attacks the target by controlling the target's item. The move fails if the target doesn't have an item. The user attacks by controlling the target's item. This move fails if the target isn't holding an item.
Corrosive Gas is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user surrounds everything around it with highly acidic gas and melts away items they hold.
Coaching is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user properly coaches its ally Pokémon, boosting their Attack and Defense stats.
Flip Turn is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. After making its attack, the user rushes back to switch places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Triple Axel is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. A consecutive three-kick attack that becomes more powerful with each successful hit.
Dual Wingbeat is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user slams the target with its wings. The target is hit twice in a row. The user slams the target with its wings to inflict damage. The target is hit twice in a row.
Scorching Sands is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target. The user throws scorching sand at the target to attack. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Jungle Healing is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user becomes one with the jungle, restoring HP and healing any status conditions of itself and its ally Pokémon in battle. The user becomes one with the jungle, restoring HP and curing status conditions for itself and its ally Pokémon currently in the battle.
Wicked Blow is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, having mastered the Dark style, strikes the target with a fierce blow. This attack always results in a critical hit. The user, having mastered the Dark style, strikes the target with a fierce blow. This move always lands a critical hit.
Surging Strikes is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user, having mastered the Water style, strikes the target with a flowing motion three times in a row. This attack always results in a critical hit. The user, having mastered the Water style, strikes the target with a flowing motion three times in a row. This move always lands a critical hit.
Thunder Cage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user traps the target in a cage of sparking electricity for four to five turns. The user traps the target inside a cage of sparking electricity that inflicts damage for four to five turns.
Dragon Energy is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Converting its life-force into power, the user attacks opposing Pokémon. The lower the user’s HP, the lower the move’s power. Converting its life-force into power, the user attacks opposing Pokémon. The lower the user's HP, the lower the move's power.
Freezing Glare is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user shoots its psychic power from its eyes to attack. This may also leave the target frozen.
Fiery Wrath is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user transforms its wrath into a fire-like aura to attack. This may also make opposing Pokémon flinch.
Thunderous Kick is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user overwhelms the target with lightning-like movement before delivering a kick. This also lowers the target’s Defense stat. The user overwhelms the target with lightning-like movement before delivering a kick. This also lowers the target's Defense stat.
Glacial Lance is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks by hurling a blizzard-cloaked icicle lance at opposing Pokémon.
Astral Barrage is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks by sending a frightful amount of small ghosts at opposing Pokémon.
Eerie Spell is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. The user attacks with its tremendous psychic power. This also removes 3 PP from the target’s last move. The user attacks with its tremendous psychic power. This also removes 3 PP from the target's last move. The user attacks with its tremendous psychic power. This also drains 3 PP from the move last used by the target.
Dire Claw is a Pokémon move. The user lashes out at the target with ruinous claws, aiming to land a critical hit. This may also leave the target poisoned, paralyzed, or drowsy. The user lashes out at the target with ruinous claws. This may also leave the target poisoned, paralyzed, or asleep.
Psyshield Bash is a Pokémon move. Cloaking itself in psychic energy, the user slams into the target. This may also raise the user’s defensive stats. Cloaking itself in psychic energy, the user slams into the target. This also boosts the user’s Defense stat.
Power Shift is a Pokémon move. The user swaps its offensive and defensive stats. The user swaps its Attack and Defense stats.
Stone Axe is a Pokémon move. The user swings its stone axes at the target, aiming to land a critical hit. Stone splinters left behind by this attack continue to damage the target for several turns. The user swings its stone axes at the target. Stone splinters left behind by this attack float around the target.
Springtide Storm is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by wrapping the target in fierce winds brimming with love and hate. This move’s additional effects depend on the user’s form. The user attacks by wrapping opposing Pokémon in fierce winds brimming with love and hate. This may also lower their Attack stats.
Mystical Power is a Pokémon move. The user strengthens itself with a mysterious power. If it excels in offense, its offensive stats are raised. If it excels in defense, its defensive stats are raised. The user attacks by emitting a mysterious power. This also boosts the user’s Sp. Atk stat.
Raging Fury is a Pokémon move. The user rampages and spews vicious flames to inflict damage on the target, then becomes fixated on using this move. The user rampages around spewing flames for two to three turns. The user then becomes confused.
Wave Crash is a Pokémon move. The user shrouds itself in water and slams into the target with its whole body to inflict damage. This also damages the user and raises the user’s action speed. The user shrouds itself in water and slams into the target with its whole body to inflict damage. This also damages the user quite a lot.
Chloroblast is a Pokémon move. The user launches its amassed chlorophyll to inflict damage on the target. This also damages the user and lowers the user's action speed. The user launches its amassed chlorophyll to inflict damage on the target. This also damages the user.
Mountain Gale is a Pokémon move. The user hurls giant chunks of ice at the target to inflict damage. The user hurls giant chunks of ice at the target to inflict damage. This may also make the target flinch.
Victory Dance is a Pokémon move. The user performs a dance to usher in victory. This raises the user’s offensive and defensive stats and increases the damage dealt by the user’s moves by 50 percent. The user performs an intense dance to usher in victory, boosting its Attack, Defense, and Speed stats.
Headlong Rush is a Pokémon move. The user smashes into the target in a full-body tackle. This also lowers the user’s defensive stats. The user smashes into the target in a full-body tackle. This also lowers the user’s Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Barb Barrage is a Pokémon move. The user launches countless toxic barbs to inflict damage. This may also poison the target. This move’s power is doubled if the target has a status condition. The user launches countless toxic barbs to inflict damage. This may also poison the target. This move’s power is doubled if the target is already poisoned.
Esper Wing is a Pokémon move. The user slashes the target with aura-enriched wings. This also raises the user's action speed. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit. The user slashes the target with aura-enriched wings. This also boosts the user's Speed stat. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Bitter Malice is a Pokémon move. The user attacks its target with spine-chilling resentment. This may also leave the target with frostbite. This move's power is doubled if the target has a status condition. The user attacks the target with spine-chilling resentment. This also lowers the target’s Attack stat.
Shelter is a Pokémon move. The user makes its skin as hard as an iron shield, raising its defensive stats. Incoming moves also become more likely to miss. The user makes its skin as hard as an iron shield, sharply boosting its Defense stat.
Triple Arrows is a Pokémon move. The user delivers an axe kick, then fires three arrows. This raises the chance of its future attacks landing critical hits and also lowers the target's defensive stats. The user kicks, then fires three arrows. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit and may also lower the target’s Defense stat or make it flinch.
Infernal Parade is a Pokémon move. The user attacks with myriad fireballs. This may also leave the target with a burn. This move's power is doubled if the target has a status condition.
Ceaseless Edge is a Pokémon move. The user slashes its shell blade at the target, aiming to land a critical hit. Shell splinters left behind by this attack will continue to damage the target for several turns. The user slashes its shell blade at the target. Shell splinters left behind by this attack remain scattered under the target as spikes.
Bleakwind Storm is a Pokémon move. The user attacks with savagely cold winds that cause both body and spirit to tremble. This may also leave the target with frostbite. The user attacks with savagely cold winds that cause both body and spirit to tremble. This may also lower the Speed stats of opposing Pokémon.
Wildbolt Storm is a Pokémon move. The user summons a thunderous tempest and savagely attacks with lightning and wind. This may also leave the target with paralysis. The user summons a thunderous tempest and savagely attacks with lightning and wind. This may also leave opposing Pokémon with paralysis.
Sandsear Storm is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by wrapping the target in fierce winds and searingly hot sand. This also leaves the target with a burn. The user attacks by wrapping opposing Pokémon in fierce winds and searingly hot sand. This may also leave them with a burn.
Lunar Blessing is a Pokémon move. The user heals its own status conditions and restores its HP. Incoming moves also become more likely to miss. The user receives a blessing from the crescent moon, restoring HP and curing status conditions for itself and its ally Pokémon currently in the battle.
Take Heart is a Pokémon move. The user lifts its spirits, healing its own status conditions and raising its offensive and defensive stats. The user lifts its spirits, curing its own status conditions and boosting its Sp. Atk and Sp. Def stats.
Tera Blast is a Pokémon move. If the user has Terastallized, it unleashes energy of its Tera Type. This move inflicts damage using the Attack or Sp. Atk stat—whichever is higher for the user.
Silk Trap is a Pokémon move. The user spins a silken trap, protecting itself from damage while lowering the Speed stat of any attacker that makes direct contact.
Axe Kick is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by kicking up into the air and slamming its heel down upon the target. This may also confuse the target. If it misses, the user takes damage instead.
Last Respects is a Pokémon move. The user attacks to avenge its allies. The more defeated allies there are in the user's party, the greater the move's power.
Lumina Crash is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by unleashing a peculiar light that even affects the mind. This also harshly lowers the target's Sp. Def stat.
Order Up is a Pokémon move. The user attacks with elegant poise. If the user has a Tatsugiri in its mouth, this move boosts one of the user's stats based on the Tatsugiri's form.
Jet Punch is a Pokémon move. The user summons a torrent around its fist and punches at blinding speed. This move always goes first.
Spicy Extract is a Pokémon move. The user emits an incredibly spicy extract, sharply boosting the target's Attack stat and harshly lowering the target's Defense stat.
Spin Out is a Pokémon move. The user spins furiously by straining its legs, inflicting damage on the target. This also harshly lowers the user's Speed stat.
Population Bomb is a Pokémon move. The user’s fellows gather in droves to perform a combo attack that hits the target one to ten times in a row.
Ice Spinner is a Pokémon move. The user covers its feet in thin ice and twirls around, slamming into the target. This move's spinning motion also destroys the terrain.
Glaive Rush is a Pokémon move. The user throws its entire body into a reckless charge. After this move is used, attacks on the user cannot miss and will inflict double damage until the user’s next turn.
Revival Blessing is a Pokémon move. The user bestows a loving blessing, reviving a party Pokémon that has fainted and restoring half that Pokémon's max HP.
Salt Cure is a Pokémon move. The user salt cures the target, inflicting damage every turn. Steel and Water types are more strongly affected by this move.
Triple Dive is a Pokémon move. The user performs a perfectly timed triple dive, hitting the target with splashes of water three times in a row.
Mortal Spin is a Pokémon move. The user performs a spin attack that can also eliminate the effects of such moves as Bind, Wrap, and Leech Seed. This also poisons opposing Pokémon.
Doodle is a Pokémon move. The user captures the very essence of the target in a sketch. This changes the Abilities of the user and its ally Pokémon to that of the target.
Fillet Away is a Pokémon move. The user sharply boosts its Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats by using its own HP.
Kowtow Cleave is a Pokémon move. The user slashes at the target after kowtowing to make the target let down its guard. This attack never misses.
Flower Trick is a Pokémon move. The user throws a rigged bouquet of flowers at the target. This attack never misses and always lands a critical hit.
Torch Song is a Pokémon move. The user blows out raging flames as if singing a song, scorching the target. This also boosts the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Aqua Step is a Pokémon move. The user toys with the target and attacks it using light and fluid dance steps. This also boosts the user's Speed stat.
Raging Bull is a Pokémon move. The user performs a tackle like a raging bull. This move's type depends on the user's form. It can also break barriers, such as Light Screen and Reflect.
Make It Rain is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by throwing out a mass of coins. This also lowers the user's Sp. Atk stat. Money is earned after the battle.
Psyblade is a Pokémon move. The user rends the target with an ethereal blade. This move's power is boosted by 50 percent if the user is on Electric Terrain.
Hydro Steam is a Pokémon move. The user blasts the target with boiling-hot water. This move's power is not lowered in harsh sunlight but rather boosted by 50 percent.
Ruination is a Pokémon move. The user summons a ruinous disaster. This cuts the target’s HP in half.
Collision Course is a Pokémon move. The user transforms and crashes to the ground, causing a massive prehistoric explosion. This move's power is boosted more than usual if it’s a supereffective hit.
Electro Drift is a Pokémon move. The user races forward at ultrafast speeds, piercing its target with futuristic electricity. This move's power is boosted more than usual if it's a supereffective hit.
Shed Tail is a Pokémon move. The user creates a substitute for itself using its own HP before switching places with a party Pokémon in waiting.
Chilly Reception is a Pokémon move. The user tells a chillingly bad joke before switching places with a party Pokémon in waiting. This summons a snowstorm lasting five turns.
Tidy Up is a Pokémon move. The user tidies up and removes the effects of Spikes, Stealth Rock, Sticky Web, Toxic Spikes, and Substitute. This also boosts the user’s Attack and Speed stats.
Snowscape is a Pokémon move. The user summons a snowstorm lasting five turns. This boosts the Defense stats of Ice types.
Pounce is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by pouncing on the target. This also lowers the target's Speed stat.
Trailblaze is a Pokémon move. The user attacks suddenly as if leaping out from tall grass. The user's nimble footwork boosts its Speed stat.
Chilling Water is a Pokémon move. The user attacks the target by showering it with water that's so cold it saps the target's power. This also lowers the target's Attack stat.
Hyper Drill is a Pokémon move. The user spins the pointed part of its body at high speed to pierce the target. This attack can hit a target using a move such as Protect or Detect.
Twin Beam is a Pokémon move. The user shoots mystical beams from its eyes to inflict damage. The target is hit twice in a row.
Rage Fist is a Pokémon move. The user converts its rage into energy to attack. The more times the user has been hit by attacks, the greater the move's power.
Armor Cannon is a Pokémon move. The user shoots its own armor out as blazing projectiles. This also lowers the user’s Defense and Sp. Def stats.
Bitter Blade is a Pokémon move. The user focuses its bitter feelings toward the world of the living into a slashing attack. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target.
Double Shock is a Pokémon move. The user discharges all the electricity from its body to perform a high-damage attack. After using this move, the user will no longer be Electric type.
Gigaton Hammer is a Pokémon move. The user swings its whole body around to attack with its huge hammer. This move can't be used twice in a row.
Comeuppance is a Pokémon move. The user retaliates with much greater force against the opponent that last inflicted damage on it.
Aqua Cutter is a Pokémon move. The user expels pressurized water to cut at the target like a blade. This move has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Blood Moon is a Pokémon move. The user unleashes the full brunt of its spirit from a full moon that shines as red as blood. This move can't be used twice in a row.
Matcha Gotcha is a Pokémon move. The user fires a blast of tea that it mixed. The user's HP is restored by up to half the damage taken by the target. This may also leave the target with a burn.
Syrup Bomb is a Pokémon move. The user sets off an explosion of sticky candy syrup, which coats the target and causes the target's Speed stat to drop each turn for three turns.
Ivy Cudgel is a Pokémon move. The user strikes with an ivy-wrapped cudgel. This move's type changes depending on the mask worn by the user, and it has a heightened chance of landing a critical hit.
Electro Shot is a Pokémon move. The user gathers electricity on the first turn, boosting its Sp. Atk stat, then fires a high-voltage shot on the next turn. The shot will be fired immediately in rain.
Tera Starstorm is a Pokémon move. With the power of its crystals, the user bombards and eliminates the target. When used by Terapagos in its Stellar Form, this move damages all opposing Pokémon.
Fickle Beam is a Pokémon move. The user shoots a beam of light to inflict damage. Sometimes all the user's heads shoot beams in unison, doubling the move's power.
Burning Bulwark is a Pokémon move. The user's intensely hot fur protects it from attacks and also burns any attacker that makes direct contact with it.
Thunderclap is a Pokémon move. This move enables the user to attack first with a jolt of electricity. This move fails if the target is not readying an attack.
Mighty Cleave is a Pokémon move. The user wields the light that has accumulated atop its head to cleave the target. This move hits even if the target protects itself.
Tachyon Cutter is a Pokémon move. The user attacks by launching particle blades at the target twice in a row. This attack never misses.
Hard Press is a Pokémon move. The target is crushed with an arm, a claw, or the like to inflict damage. The more HP the target has left, the greater the move's power.
Dragon Cheer is a Pokémon move. The user raises its allies’ morale with a draconic cry so that their future attacks have a heightened chance of landing critical hits. This rouses Dragon types more.
Alluring Voice is a Pokémon move. The user attacks the target using its angelic voice. This also confuses the target if its stats have been boosted during the turn.
Temper Flare is a Pokémon move. Spurred by desperation, the user attacks the target. This move's power is doubled if the user's previous move failed.
Supercell Slam is a Pokémon move. The user electrifies its body and drops onto the target to inflict damage. If this move misses, the user takes damage instead.
Psychic Noise is a Pokémon move. The user attacks the target with unpleasant sound waves. For two turns, the target is prevented from recovering HP through moves, Abilities, or held items.
Upper Hand is a Pokémon move. The user reacts to the target's movement and strikes with the heel of its palm, making the target flinch. This move fails if the target is not readying a priority move.
Malignant Chain is a Pokémon move. The user pours toxins into the target by wrapping them in a toxic, corrosive chain. This may also leave the target badly poisoned.
Shadow Rush is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move while in hyper mode.
Shadow Blast is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User’s critical hit rate is one level higher when using this move.
Shadow Blitz is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage.
Shadow Bolt is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to paralyze the target.
Shadow Break is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage.
Shadow Chill is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to freeze the target.
Shadow End is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. User takes 1/2 of its current HP in recoil.
Shadow Fire is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage. Has a $effect_chance% chance to burn the target.
Shadow Rave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage.
Shadow Storm is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage.
Shadow Wave is a Pokémon move. Inflicts regular damage.
Shadow Down is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s Defense by two stages.
Shadow Half is a Pokémon move. Halves HP of all Pokémon on the field. User loses its next turn to "recharge", and cannot attack or switch out during that turn.
Shadow Hold is a Pokémon move. The target cannot switch out normally. Ignores accuracy and evasion modifiers. This effect ends when the user leaves the field. The target may still escape by using baton pass, u turn, or a shed shell. Both the user and the target pass on this effect with baton pass.
Shadow Mist is a Pokémon move. Lowers the target’s evasion by two stages.
Shadow Panic is a Pokémon move. Confuses the target.
Shadow Shed is a Pokémon move. Removes the effects of light screen, reflect, and safeguard.
Shadow Sky is a Pokémon move. Changes the weather to Shadow Sky for five turns. Pokémon other than shadow Pokémon take 1/16 their max HP at the end of every turn. This move is typeless for the purposes of weather ball.
